ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Parliament's decisions: continuation of the debate and decision on the proposals for revision of the provisions of the Constitution, in accordance with Rules 110 of the Constitution and 119 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Before we begin the procedure, I would like the Bureau - and I believe all of you - to thank our colleagues in the House, who often listen to things unfairly against them. For us today to have the lists, which all of you have taken in your hands, some of them stayed up to 3: 00 after midnight. I think it's worth mentioning and thanking them for this thing. I would also like to inform you that they have spoken a hundred and eleven speakers - together with Mr Manda, who will speak immediately after, a hundred - five parliamentarians, six rapporteurs and special speakers, six Members of Parliament, six Ministers and State Secretarys and two former Members of Parliament. A total of thirty - six spokesmen spoke. In essence, the list was completed with the above. I propose, today, that the rapporteurs and the special speakers be given the floor for three to five minutes each, that is, as a secondary one and that the roll-call vote be followed by a roll-call vote on the revised provisions. I suppose I have a unanimous agreement from this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u2	Before I give the floor to the rapporteurs, I can tell you that there was agreement yesterday that Mr Mandas and Mr Dimitris Stamatis should speak today. Then I will give the floor to the rapporteurs. Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I think that despite the predictions - perhaps some - it was an interesting discussion of the Constitutional Review, both in committee and in plenary. Some who asked for every three and a few elections thought we wouldn't make it this day. They thought we wouldn't make it to the day when we discussed the Revision of the Constitution. They hoped that we would have collapsed in the four evaluations, that the cutter would already work, that the pensions would have been cut, that we would not have gone out on the market, and that in any case the SYRIZA - that is - because they tell us with various surnames - would have already sinked. Go! Go! Go! They didn't sink, the SYRIZA government didn't sink. So we have arrived at what I consider to be a political achievement, to discuss the revision of the Constitution in this House, in the proposed parliament, as it is said, by fulfilling another of our programming commitments and canceling - I want to repeat - various plans and political plans, because they did not even want to discuss the revision of Rule 86. I do not deny or underestimate the consensus that exists on this matter. Indeed, the revision of Article 86 is also a question that, if anyone thinks of it in terms of close political feasibility, SYRIZA would not want to be reviewed. I say this in the thought that he could protect him, protect his ministers from future developments. However, it is SYRIZA who has taken the lead in the revision of Article 86, which will also become a reality. In addition to the consents expressed, a concrete change must finally be made with Article 86 and not as it was, where, until you say cyminus, because of the short deadline, the responsibilities of the ministers have been faded. That was the reality, ladies and gentlemen, and you have not changed it. Therefore, we are in a position today to make a first important, crucial institutional step along the road to the Constitutional Review, which will, of course, be completed in the next Review House. As we have stressed from our side, this process is neither politically neutral, nor historically, nor ideologically and never neutrally, nor politically, historically, nor ideologically, throughout the course of constitutions and in our country and in Europe and could never have been neutral. It is therefore a result of specific choices - political, ideological and historical - made under specific circumstances. This is reflected in SYRIZA's proposal. In SYRIZA's proposal - which is not all our agenda obviously - we propose some articles to be revised and others not. That gives a certain stigma. The articles we are proposing to be revised - and I will say on the direction - are very specific and the articles that we do not propose to be revised - I shall refer to two of them - are also very specific. Therefore, in this sense, it is a specific choice, a specific direction and a specific ideological mark, which for us is a progressive sign. It's a progressive eyemark in the future, let me say. Therefore, the sovereign people, who are alleged to be the Constitution, must know that SYRIZA proposes that specific articles be reviewed in a specific direction. For example, in Article 3 we are proposing that we have a neutral state, taking half but a crucial step in European reality. Because European reality is a separation of Church and State. For Article 5, we propose, for example, protection against discrimination based on sex, gender identity and sexual orientation. The new democracy in these two things I have already said is contrary. As is the case with many others: in the political oath for public officials, in the state guarantee for a decent level of living, for universal access to health, for the constitutionality of collective bargaining and for the possibility of recourse to arbitration, for constitutional safeguarding common goods such as water and energy, for water and energy networks. It is clear, therefore, that anyone who votes in the upcoming elections between this review process and the final process is voting in their minds and a certain direction for the next day. I shall now make two - three observations - and I shall end, Mr President - in relation to yesterday's debate. How exactly is the revision of a national constitution in conditions of globalisation - it is an issue that we have not discussed - in a Europe that is backwards with extreme right-wing, nationalism, etc.Huh? We understand that our Constitution, the Constitution of our country, must be in a direction in this European environment that acts as an institutional counterweight to extreme neoliberalism and the extreme right. We have this direction in our national constitution. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude with that, Mr President. Secondly, they call us ideological in various things. To ask: Why is Mr Mitsotakis not conservative and ideal with the revision of Article 3? What is the European reality in the matter of the Church - State? Even this crucial half step does not support it. Also, how liberal is he? Indeed, he is using it as a very central argument in his criticism of Article 16. What exactly do we want? What do those who want to say about the revision of Article 16, which Constantine Karamanlis introduced into the 1975 review? Don't forget that. What do they want? Do they want this right to be granted to those who want it and where they want it? Is that a right to higher education? And why, if we need so many scientists from our country - they leave our children abroad and some are allegedly crying with crocodile tears - do not make similar positions, if we are to do this at the public university with the relevant LPD, with the relevant funds? Why, that is, 1.5% of GDP increase that we are told will come from if we supposedly unleash this article of the Constitution, the state will not collect it? A large, public university which has the potential to become an international centre - but not private speculative interests - of higher education, and to attract these people who say that there are hundreds, thousands of maybe, who want to study in our country. That's all for Article 16. I shall conclude, Mr President, by making one more comment. The extreme of populism and transaction I think it was the proposal of the President of the Officerial Representation to vote for all of them, saying that we have no differences, that we have no direction, that we have no different direction and, above all, forgetting the sovereign people. He thinks Mr Mitsotakis and others even that, because he has the strong interests and the money that flows with him, he can impose his extreme neoliberal choices.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Mada, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u5	He predicts and plans without the sovereign people. And he will once again fall out to his predictions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Stamatis also came to the Chamber. Mr. Stopatis, come to Stepma. Immediately after we start with the rapporteurs. I would ask the secretariats of the parliamentary groups to inform colleagues of entering the Chamber. Not that half of us are gone to a second reading of the catalogue again. All right, let everyone be inside. In other words, in half an hour from now, I would ask all my colleagues to be in the Chamber. Mr. Stamatis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, by basically closing the debate on the Revision of the Constitution, I have been asked a question: What kind of debate are we now doing? This House, which is the nominated parliament, will be different from the Review House. In other words, in simple terms, the proposals that you and we are making will be judged by the next House. And some of the voices that have been heard - fortunately they have been withdrawn by the Prime Minister himself - that a small game could be set up so that the House proposed would commit the House, I think it is not even worth discussing them. To conclude: Where did your intransigence lead, your belief that you can alone guide the process of Revision of the Constitution? Where did he drive? Tell me practically, to understand what it was that dominated your mind to write all the procedures that have been observed so far in your old shoes? The custom of the House is that the process of revision should be a consensual process, not necessarily assemble in some articles, but that a revision of the Constitution should be initiated on the basis of a dialogue of substance, long-term as necessary, in order to identify the problems that the new reform initiative needs to address. So what did you do? I'll see you in the next House then. Then you'll understand that the smart bird from the nose is caught. Of course, I do not want to see - nor should you think - that by refusing to vote on a number of articles on your behalf so that the number of 180 votes required may not be exceeded. This has reason, possibly, for KINAL to ask for it because it believes that in the next elections it will have the critical size. You, however, have a responsibility and an obligation, otherwise you are unrealisticly exposed. I now come to three issues relating to the Constitution under review. I come to the article under review on religion. The explanation I give in the article is that it is the zipper to cover your left ideology and put it in religion. There has been a lot of talk about what is happening abroad. Note: Each Constitution draws its origin from the historical path of nations or states. And I ask: How is our nation's history connected to religion? Does it cause the same feeling, the same feelings to the citizens, which it causes in Germany? But our nation's historic path is linked to religion. So the House must show respect for this sensitivity to the Greek people. So, trying to get a zipper for your leftness, you do not hesitate to insult this popular feeling. And I have to say one more thing, and up to here: I am amazed by the fact that the head of our religion, the Greek Orthodox Church, does not take place. He is concerned about whether to get fired or not to be fired at ten thousand priests, whether to find them with Mr. Tsipras. However, the order of the institutions in the democratic states takes a stand. And that's as far as it goes. Let's go to Article 16 now. You told us to follow Europe's example on the question of religion. And you say to us 'Look at what is happening in Europe'. I'm inverting it now. See what's going on around the world, even in North Korea. So all the states worldwide are wrong and only you are the wise ones? Oh, no. And here you express your ideology. And because different fairy tales have been heard, I will show the real point of your disagreement. Do you know what it is? The levelling. I mean, let the neighbor's goat die. This is the foundation stone of your policy. Since alpha can't do it, we can't allow it for beta. But do you really have any private universities today or not? There are two kinds. One is private universities - one side - which already operate in Greece and one side later on gain the validity of a university degree. The second category of private universities is foreign universities. Who can, however, study there? They only have ones. So those who have, the rich, will acquire the skilled knowledge, will move on to higher education. The other children, the Greeks, who, for some reason, even for psychological reasons, do not succeed in the introductory examinations of the Greek universities, if they have no money for what they do? They can't go any further. Rejoice, then, is your "achievement"! I'm closing up with what I started, Rule 32. Because I, too, have received questions 'what are you going to do about the face of the President of the Republic?', is it time for this House to discuss what we are going to do and who we are going to choose? Is it time to choose the President of the Republic? Today we have the procedure and the House has no right to play with it. The next House, which will be the Review House, will decide. And I repeat that it would be extreme to the Greek people to see tricks that would cancel this possibility of the next Review House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u8	SYRIZA's general rapporteur, Mr Georgios Katrugalos, has the floor for five minutes and I would ask everyone to keep five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. I think that both of the proposals from the two largest parties, and in particular from their leaders' speeches yesterday, were clearly and forcefully identified the different political content of the two proposals for the Review, but in particular the political nature of the two parties in general. As time is very limited, I will refer only to three issues from those raised by the Head of State of New Democracy. He asked us: Who do you want to protect with the non-revision of Article 16? And he said the inaccuracy - noble - and I am using this term - that anyone in America - who is obviously his model in organizing higher education - has no money to study, can get a scholarship. This is completely inaccurate. There are some scholarships, but the large volume of students in America to study receives loans. How many billions do you think the Americans are currently in debt who have taken loans to study? Twice Greece's debt? Six hundred billion? Three times Greece's debt? Nine hundred billion? So the debt of the forty million Americans who received loans is at the moment 1,465,000,000,000,000 and is at a trend of constant growth. It was less than half ten years ago. It was 675 billion in 2009. It goes without saying, therefore, that the difference between the rich and the poor is artificial, that they do not understand what a great enslavement it is to owe forty million Americans over 100 thousand dollars, so that they can have access to a good that our Constitution guarantees as a common good and a social right. Obviously, when you don't have to get a loan or even have taken a loan you have easily repaid, you don't understand what an important, social and class barrier it is so that a child can study from a rural or working family. The second issue, which has been raised with enthusiasm, but I do not think it has been fully understood by all of us, is the argument that since the elections are to be held, the Greek people will decide, why not let the Greek people specify the content of the arrangements? That's half right. That's what the Constitution seeks. The Constitution seeks to intercede the electorate, precisely to have a say in the final formulation of the content of the arrangements. However, the Constitution also seeks to do more: lasting consensus, a consensus that lasts in time, because it does not only want a simple parliamentary majority to shape the result, but provides for the will of two Boulous. Contrary to the will of the two Vultures, it goes without saying that as far as the general direction, the direction of the change in the procedure is concerned, the decision of the first and second. If the procedure begins in '85 to reduce the President's powers, the next Parliament can indeed define the contents by reducing the responsibilities, having the final reason for the final printing. But it could not increase responsibilities. This would require the launch of a new review procedure, precisely because the political question is different. That's self-evident we told you. And several of you who have legal education realized that. This is also the view of Mr Athanasios that, when we talk about directions, we are talking about two things: we are talking about the need to change this provision and the orientation that this change will have. This is what is binding for the coming Parliament, this has been done in all previous revisions, and that is precisely why the vote in the last Review, unlike what your Chief said, has indeed included in several provisions this message of direction and direction. I'm finishing up with a report made to me by your Chief. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Mr President, show me some kind of decency. I didn't take the personal speech, because...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u10	Continue for one more minute, but don't personally open now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u11	No, it's not personal. He didn't blame me for anything personal anyway, but for one point of view. I was accused of being a constitutional populist, because as a professor I had expressed the view that societies facing the need to face a major crisis have the institutional dilemma if they are to overcome it by incision or by follow-up. I therefore had the thought of a possible constitutional parliament. For this argument, which obviously does not belong to SYRIZA's choice, but to my own staff, scientific reflection, I was accused of being a constitutional populist. I mean, why is that not constitutional populism? In this case, Mr Mitsotakis actually reiterates his deep conviction, which has expressed it outside the text and which is why he responds to his political opinions. I refer to his view of the 'intangible majority'. It is true that Eleftherios Venizelos at the great gathering of 1910, when his people raised the issue in editorial terms, answered: a review. And the historian comments that with the silence of the people, when he did not repeat this request, he became a great leader. De Gaulle, however, ladies and gentlemen, who do not accuse him of being a populist, in exactly the same dilemma after Algeria's great crisis and with a fresh constitution, the 1946 Constitution, chose to go to a constitutional parliament and ratify its outcome by referendum. I say these to say that in times of major political crisis, it is up to the final choice of the political leadership, which must obviously be adopted by the vast majority of the people, the kind of exit from the crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u12	Minister, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u13	I do conclude, Mr President. We because we have secured the return to normality with the exit from the memorandums and precisely because we are in a coordinate state environment, have chosen, with this review plan, to have institutional continuity within the coordinate state and following the review process, but while at the same time seeking the content of our proposals to be part of the past. That is precisely what defines the nature of our review proposal as an attempt to deepen the democratic character, the liberal character, in terms of the protection of individual rights and the social character of our culture, for a better democracy, for a more effective social rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u14	Thank you. Mr Kostas Tasoulas, the rapporteur-general of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, before I sum up the Review, I wanted to make a clarification, because we discussed this issue with Mr Loverdos and Mr Katrugalo in good time. In the last part of the Constitution we propose several abolitions of transitional and obsolete provisions, reasonably on the presumption. I wanted to remind you of something that I said in the previous debate, that in Article 116, which we propose to abolish, we are doing so in view of the fact that, as it seems in our proposal, the provisions on equality proposed that they should be transferred to their position, which is in the second part of the Constitution, where individual and social rights are, in other words, so as to leave what is transitional and obsolete. I come now, having said this, to the recapitulation of our debates and to the committee and to the plenary on the revision of the Constitution. It is the prerogative of Parliament and Members of Parliament that debate and responsibility for the constitutional review should be discussed. It is a strong institutional, historical and political privilege. And as a prerogative this debate and this involvement should make us renounce any attempt at micro-party, close or beneficial perception of our review proposals. The New Democracy, as President of Kyriakos Mitsotakis presented yesterday, proposed a broad and bold review in order to make use of the privileges of the juncture to correct our constitutional corpus in the direction of adapting it to times and towards making it useful not only for the country's exit from the crisis, which will be a moment, but mainly for maintaining the country outside the walls of the crisis. On the contrary, we have noted that SYRIZA, as Mr. Tsipras most rightly pointed out, perceives the Constitution and this is part of micro-grouping and in the tactical management of the upcoming defeat in the elections in 2019. We reiterate that we consider that the vote we shall give a moment ago on constitutional revision is a vote which is given in the established sense, both in science and in practice, that this House finds the need and determines the provisions to be revised. In this sense, we are also voting for consensus articles proposed by SYRIZA. In particular: Article 32(4) and (5), Article 62, Article 86 for paragraph 3, Article 101a, in the dominant sense, the logic of the concept, the unique concept that we agree on the need to revise these provisions and to entrust the next Review House with freedom and mediation of the sovereign people to these provisions. I add in this brief speech a last, not so legal but political argument, because this House, ladies and gentlemen, does not commit the next day. If the new, unprecedented and incoherent theory that you have tried to impose was the case, then why should there be two parliaments for the Review? If this House commits itself to the content of the next, why does the Constitution also provide for a second parliament? He was going to finish the review work of the same House. Unless you think the role of the next House and the role of the people is to bring the carbon to repeat the proposal of this House. That's all it takes. In view of the enormous responsibility which, in less than one hour's time, each of us will take over, I feel the need to reiterate, as a challenge and as an appeal in view of the unique and rare privilege we have for Constitutional Review, that we are voting on some of your own proposals in the sense that I have described. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The Constitution, however, does not only have these proposals. But the country and society do not just have these needs. That is why I reiterate the need for all of us to be lifted, especially the majority colleagues, to be able - at last - to revise the Constitution, and to vote, even by a majority of fifty-one, in Article 16 on the upgrading of the country's educational things, for our country to be able - to establish private and non-profit universities to improve the education of the Greek people and the Greek youth, to be treated as all the advanced and non-profit-making countries in the world. It is a great responsibility to renounce this privilege and it is a great responsibility to keep, if you do not, the country set up for at least the next ten years in a sad solitary breakthrough, where the conditions of higher education will be conditions of declining and conditions where any modernisation, which is guaranteed by competition and private higher education, will occur. Consider it. It is worth lifting to the height of circumstances rather than to the height of any micro-party and ideological perception. This is the opportunity given by the Constitutional Review. It's an opportunity that most of you will never have in your life again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Tasouula, please, close.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u17	Such a challenge rarely exists for each and every one. The new Republic has taken up these challenges, has tabled a proposal for a broad and bold review and, shortly, everyone will be faced with their individual responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u18	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Friday 15 February 2019. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1.The question asked by MP I Piraeus, Mr Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Serious risk of collapse is facing the Refugee and Koraleneion Foundation". 2.H by No. 353/12-2-2019 a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Direct restoration of damage caused to the new National Road of Chania - Kissamos, North Road Axis of Crete (BOAK) due to the floods as well as within the settlement of Kato Stalos on Malindretou Street". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 348/11-2-2019 topical question by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Mr Anastasios Prussias, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Second Opportunities School in Samothraki". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. - The 326/4-2-2019 topical question by MP Magnesia, New Democracy, Christou Bukouros, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: 'Enlargement of the First Industrial Area (Vi)'. Volos’. 3. The question by Mr Michael Jeleighs, Member of the European Parliament, to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Development, on the subject: "The situation of the Greek Sugar Industry (EBZ)" (No. 317/4-2-2019). 4. The 327/4-2-2019 topical question by MP Arta, New Democracy, George Style, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Reviews of research projects in research centres without tender procedures and with unknown selection criteria". 5. The Question No 294/22-1-2019 by the Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese Republican Association Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Unreasonable exclusion of professors from claiming jobs for laboratory managers and for clinics". 6. The 309/28-1-2019 topical question by Independent MEP Mr. Aristides Fokas to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Social Structures of Municipalities". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 306/28-1-2019 topical question by MP Kastoria of New Democracy Mrs Maria Antonios to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Examination of student transfer objections". 8. The 285/21-1-2019 topical question by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios Prize to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Transfer of membership from the Medical School of the Democrat University of Thrace to the newly established University of Western Attica". 9. The question by No. 291/22-1-2019 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Yiannis Delis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, about the "transfer of students from musical and artistic schools". 10. Under No 269/14-1-2019, a topical question by Congressman I Piraeus, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The government is calling for a selective partition of municipalities with micro-party criteria, just before the municipal elections, causing confusion and inconvenience." 11. Under No 265/11-1-2019, Mr Odyssea Konstantinopoulos, Member of the Arcadia Parliamentary Association of Democratic Independents to the Minister of the Interior, is asking Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos: "What stage is the project of attracting visitors to Lake Ladona, amounting to EUR 1,89.618?" 12. The Question by Mr Charalambos Athanasios, Member of the Commission, Mr Charalambos Athanasios, Minister for the Interior, on the subject of the "Democracy of the Municipality of Lesvos". 13. Observations of the Court of Justice Under No 279/15-1-2019, the current question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Direct actions to introduce Crete into the Transport Equivalent". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration Mr Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of State and Government, on the subject: "It continues to insist on the Ministry of Shipping on the unacceptable exception of Crete from Transport Equivalent". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 2854/29-10-2018 question by MP Drama of the New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "with the transfer of a membership of the LAG from the Medical School of the Democritus University of Thrace to the newly established University of Western Attica". 3.H by number 591/29-11-2018 Parliamentary Rhodope of the Democratic Incorporation Mr Ilhan Ahmet to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Timeline of the Muslim periodicals of Thrace". Now, be careful. Although the lists prepared by Parliament's services were distributed yesterday, we were told that a number of Members have made a mistake in their mark. You don't have to come here to get a new one, about a quarter of now on each seat will be distributed three hundred new lists. Those of you who have voted right, leave it on your seat. Whoever you don't have, you'll fill out a new one. I would ask, however, because there are no more lists, namely three hundred and three hundred, be careful where you will put your cross, because we will have no more vote to distribute you. But you don't have to move from your position. They'll come to your benches and to each one of them. The special speaker of the Democratic Association now has the floor, Mr. Andreas Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the Prime Minister, trying to get out of the deadlock that led him, on the one hand, his intention to trap the opposition and, on the other hand, the arrogance and contempt of the majority that we are voting here on whatever it is, is enough to create a political climate. Trapped in the fact that with a hundred and eighty or more Members of Parliament the Revision of the Constitution for many articles, including that of the President of the Republic, will be referred to in the next House - and thus gave a white cheque not to himself, because he sees that he loses, but to the next majority - to escape from it, he invented processes that also take part in the Change Movement to show his own President. We denounced this by a statement as soon as it came down from the Step and told him that it was placed trying to destabilise itself in a way that came against the flow of debates for three months in the Committee on Review and two days in plenary, offended and slandered. And in any case, we're sending him a message. His problem is us. But get used to us because he'll see us in front of him. Secondly, in his speech he used Rule 86 to say that he is treating it and using it because opposition is taking advantage of it with its ministers even now. As soon as he said so, on the same day in the Committee on Ethics himself, Mr Tsipras, through his MPs, accepted that for a Member accused, he was sued for slandering, he should not follow the procedure for the lifting of immunity, but that the law on the responsibility of the ministers should be applied, and because Article 86 applies, that the procedure should be stopped. He's making fun of us, and he's looking at us. But this no longer passes, the Greeks and Greeks are aware of it. On the substance of this, the guidelines, the guidelines you have chosen and indeed in detail, sometimes create problems, problems which, because we have principles, we want to vote on regulations, but we have the disadvantage of not having fifty Members to put our own proposals officially and we need to be closer to what we want to see. That is why I must now give a clarification of the directions. We will vote for the interpretative addition to Article 3 with the logic not of the neutrality you say, a barbaric term that you use and there is nowhere, but on the basis that recognition of a dominant religion does not mean a discriminatory basis, a cause for discrimination. Discrimination on the basis of this declaration shall be prohibited. What we have so far said to committee, to the previous Plenary Session, is co-determined by this vote, because many times, the majority - minority - of SYRIZA, through its papers, and through the media, which has a different attitude to the national Parliament. I therefore give a very characteristic example of not having to have any further clarifications. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to hear that from the citizen who listens to us. Everything you have said about reluctant provisions on social rights, which we will not deny our vote, is the attempt to create an alibi in yourself and in the mismatch that you have shown with your election campaigns and post-elections that the Constitution shares money, distributes income, that the Constitution balances inequality, that the Constitution is a tool to produce economic policy. You've been making fun of the world and making fun of the world even now in your last days. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to end by repeating once again the clarification of our attitude. Our position in the vote will be based on our position that the next House, which is and the Reform House, should not have the option of a hundred and fifty-one votes (151) to revise the Constitution, i.e. the next parliamentary majority should not be left behind by the obligation laid down in Article 110, to seek consensus solutions. And some say: 'Well, why shouldn't that be the case now that the House is proposing?' However, because this House proposes the revision of provisions, Article, paragraph 1, and paragraph 2, as the case may be. The next House, however, is the review. The next Parliament shall formulate the provisions of the Constitution to be applied. The next House writes, to explain it, the text of the constitution that will apply. In this parliament next, a majority of eighty (80) must be claimed. Even in articles we agree, the wording plays a very large role and the next House must seek the widest possible consensus. So our group will be expressed by means of a vote that is a symbol of, specializes and demonstrates our political position with compromises in our views. For example, I would like to mention the opinion of Evangelos Venizelos on the need for balanced budgets. Mr Venizelos and myself and Mr Papatheodorou have been placed in the House on the basis of their views. We share these views in a text and Mr Panagioulis also asks us to express himself by way of our vote. In conclusion, Mr President, we will be taking part in the vote which will begin shortly by a Member, with me and our vote plus everything we have said, will be what has identified our creative attitude to the National Representation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u20	The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Christos Pappas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, in the context of the two-day debate on the Review of the Constitution and the definition of the way in which this Review will take place in the next Review House, which will result from the elections, whenever they are held, as well as from the debate on the whole procedure, the voting procedure, direction and so on, the Golden Dawn held a responsible political position. It was placed on the proposals of both the SYRIZA and the New Democracy, as well as the Independent Members, who gathered the necessary signatures for their proposal. We, for the time being, do not have the 50 Members to make our own proposals. We'll have them, though. The Golden Dawn, therefore, was placed by its leader, the rapporteur, the Parliamentary Representative, its MPs, and responsiblely said that it did not participate in the unprecedented political struggles, which took place here in the backgrounds and in the unauthorised policies that the people judged. The people saw your practices this weekend. He saw the practices on the part of the parties of the so-called constitutional arch, which, in reality, is deeply unconstitutional, conscious of an anti-constitutional, and an anti-graft arch. We admired, without any surprise, because we now know you and the Greek people know you, last night, during the speech of the Chief of Officerial Response, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the unprecedented political illusion, the unprecedented proposal for a transaction, which cancels by itself any vote of political difference and confrontation between SYRIZA and the New Democracy and collapses, I would say, in the eyes of the Greek people, whatever attitude of the New Democracy towards this constitution. I mean the proposal from Mr Mitsotakis, who is addressing SYRIZA, said - listen - listen! - voted for our own, voted for Articles 16 and 24, namely the foreign universities and the environment, and we will vote for yours! That's what he said to Mr. Tsipras. What is more, let us not become ostrichs, is this expression - which is responsible for the plight of the Greek people - which is the two sides of this currency. They are the responsible parties for your misery, Greek people! These parties are also responsible for the betrayal of the Ambassadors. And I put in the plan and the New Democracy, which may have voted 'no' to the ratification of the betrayal of the Prespes, but in essence supported and supported the complex name geographically. And her executives are now coming out clearly and talking about the neighboring structure and they call it "North Macedonia". The unprecedented political struggles were therefore also made on the back of the state institution of the President of the Republic. You two, SYRIZA and New Democracy, this two-day and not only, have literally made a rag of the Constitution and put the institution of the President of the Republic in your election trophy. And all this for the House that will emerge, because you are shaking the rise of the people's forces, you are shaking what will emerge both in Europe and in Greece. Mr President, I say that we will not vote on your Review, neither will we vote on Article 3 on religion, nor Article 28 on the alternative term, which you have not put for revision, and we will repeal it. We say that we will also abolish Article 28, and Article 62, on Members' rights and immunities, and Article 86, on the 'no responsibility of ministers', which you do not revise and remains unchanged. We remain and want, when the people allow it and God willing, a Constitution that begins in accordance with the aims and visions of the fighters of 1821, the fighters who fought for Christ's sake the faith of saint and of the country's freedom, the Constitution of 1822, the Constitution of modern Greece, which began in the name of the Holy and Indivisible Trinity. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For all things, ladies and gentlemen, as much as you have been bored by your anti-national, liberal and Marxist ideologies, no matter how much you have been bored by the mamon, it must be observed and respected according to the traditions and values of the Greek people. We observe traditions, observe loyal and sacred. For, as the ancients said - and not only ancient - Greeks: "From God's uncooked." I close, Mr President, with something I have promised and will always say: we do not forget the betrayal that has taken place, we do not forget our Macedonia, and we express the Greek people, Macedonia is one and it is Greek!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u22	Let me clarify why they come and ask me why the lists that entered your seat are exactly the same as those that were distributed yesterday to the parliamentary groups. They simply wanted to vote on Article A, they forgot, they voted on the B. So, they wanted a correction. Instead of becoming a squirrel on top and having problems counting, those who had made a mistake to mark the new one. They are, however, just the same lists. Nothing's changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u24	What do you want, Mr. President? Now we're running out of procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u25	For a minute, I would like to say something that has been said in committee to be recorded in the Minutes of this House. It concerns the numbering of the provisions of the Constitution. We had had an interesting debate in the Committee on Revision of the Constitution, and I believe that on the basis of this debate, which Parliament is aware of, the next Parliament can unite transitional provisions under a single regulation in order to reintroduce the Constitution's chamber article to number 114 instead of the number 120 that is now. I would ask that this has been recorded in the Minutes. It has no regulatory effect on the content of the devices, it has a symbolism.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, may I have the floor for a minute, may I state my agreement?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u27	Please, I said that the procedure is over, Mr Katrugale. I'm not giving you the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how the House organises and operates, forty students and students and three educational attendants from the 2nd Varis High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Please be careful what to take into account before submitting your vote. Decision (first vote) on the proposals for revision of the Constitution in accordance with Rules 110 of the Constitution and 119 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. I would remind you that under Rule 110 of the Constitution and Rule 119 of the Rules of Procedure, the vote is taken on all the revised provisions at the same time, with a note of the Members' vote separately on each item on the list, which has been distributed to you. The purpose of the vote is the provisions of the Constitution contained in the proposals for revision submitted by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, as well as members of this House, with fifty or more Members' signatures. Before we proceed to the vote, I would like to take this into account and ask you to pay attention. You have already been distributed a list containing integrated three separate lists: "A. Proposals by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Β. Proposals by the New Democracy Parliamentary Group and C. Supplementary motions by Members who have raised fifty signatures." The list you already have in your hands has three distinctions with 'yes', 'no', 'no', 'no', in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House. In any event where there is no note of the vote of the Member, beside a provision with a 'yes' or 'no' or 'no', it will be deemed not to have been voted on. As you know, the vote is roll-call, clearly and is held on all the revised provisions, as they are reflected in the ballot, at the same time by a note of the Members' vote separately for each provision, in accordance with Rule 119(6) of the Rules of Procedure, which recognises these three verdicts alone. The procedure to be followed is as follows: The question is whether or not you accept the revision of the proposed provisions of the Constitution. When reading the list, which will be made by the Chair, note your preference in the list, your name, the constituency and the parliamentary group with which you are elected. You sign it at the end and you are presenting it to the voters. You should, at the end, sign each self-determination card, which includes the proposals of the SYRIZA, the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, as well as the supplementary proposals of Members who have raised fifty signatures. If a colleague has not voted for any provision in one of the three votes, he is not required to sign it. For the provisions of which you accept the revision, note in box ‘yes’ and for those whose revision you do not accept, note ‘no’. ‘Value (+)’, ‘X’ or ‘Valid’ are acceptable voting symbols. Similarly, if you wish, note 'the present'. When you hear your name one by one, you will come to colleagues Mario Katsis from SYRIZA and Emmanuel Konsola from New Democracy, who will receive the vote, write it down and number it. I would ask both colleagues to take their seats. I would add that the voters will make a first check on the ballot, if there is an obvious misgiving about the necessary formalities, i.e. the name and signature. If the name and signature are omitted, the Member shall immediately be invited, completed and initialled. That is why I would ask you, and I ask you, not to move away from the Chamber for at least thirty minutes from the time all the Members have voted. Mr Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA and Mr Apostolos Vessiropoulos from New Democracy are on the list. At the end of the vote, ten voting committees will be set up to count the ballot as follows: Each committee shall be three-member and shall be composed of the President and two members. These committees will share an equal number of ballots. Each committee will set up a counting protocol and at the end the outcome of each committee will be taken into account. I would also like to inform you that fax (fax) colleagues have come to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure, which makes their vote known on the revised provisions of the Constitution. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Members' letters have also been sent to the Bureau, giving their votes on the revised provisions. These votes shall not be counted against the final result. I am going to read the working papers. At the moment, however, colleagues will sit in their seats. Once the list has been read, then I would ask colleagues who sit in the first two rows, to vacate them, to go backwards, to sit down by the Committees of Inquiry. Mr Athanasios Michalis and Mr Constantine Pavlides and Mr Constantine Vlassis are members of the first Committee of Directors. Mr Andreas Risoulis and Mr Panagiota Dritsel and Mr Stergios Giannakis are members of the second committee of inquiry. Mr. Gregory Stogiannides and members of Mr. Andreas Michaelides and Mr. Anastasios Dissakis are present in the third Committee of Directors. Mr Konstantinos Barkas and Mr George Pallis and Mr Athanasios Kavadas are members of the Fourth Board of Directors. In the fifth steering committee, Mr Mitafidis and members of Ms Maria Tradafylou and Mr Andreas Katsaniotis are Mr Triandafyllos Mitafidis. In the sixth Committee of Inquiry, Mr Ioannis Theocratic and members of the Committee of Inquiry, Mrs Elisabeth Scoufa and Mr Georgios Katsiantonis are Mr. The Seventh Committee of Presidents is Mr Dimitrios Rizzos and members of Mr Kara Yusuf Aihan and Mr Constantine Ah. Karamanlis. The eighth Committee of Presidents is Ms Panagiota Kozoboli and members of Ms Georgia Genias and Mr George Koumoutsaskos. The ninth board of directors is Mr. Georgios Psychogios and members Mr. Asterios Kastoris and Mr. Christos Boukoros. The tenth Committee of Presidents is Mr Dimitrios Baxvanakis and members Mr Christos Karayannides and Mr Iason Folilas. Ladies and gentlemen, before the list begins, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, seventeen students and pupils and two teachers from the 5th Old Faliro Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-three students and students and two educational attendants from the 26th Municipal School of Kallitheas. The House welcomes them. I would ask that we read the list again in terms of absentees.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u29	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned. I will repeat the Committees of Inquiry: Mr Athanasios Michelis, Mr Konstantinos Pavlides and Mr Konstantinos Vlasis are the first board of directors. Mr Andreas Risoulis, Mrs Panayota Dritsel and Mr Stergios Giannakis are in the second editorial committee. Mr. Gregory Stogiannides, Mr. Andreas Michaelides and Mr. Anastasios Dissakakis are the third responsible committee. Mr Konstantinos Barkas, Mr George Pallis and Mr Athanasios Kavadas are in the fourth editorial committee. The fifth Committee is Mr. Triantafyllos Mitafidis, Ms. Maria Triantafyllos and Mr. Andreas Katsaniotis. The sixth Committee is Mr.Ioannis Theocratic, Mrs. Elisabeth Scoufa and Mr. George Katsaniotis. Mr Dimitrios Rizzos, Mr Kara Yusuf Aihan and Mr Constantine Ah are in the seventh editorial committee. Karamanlis. The eighth Committee is Mrs Panagiota Kozoboli, Mrs George and Mr Georgios Koumoutsakos. Mr. George Psychogios, Mr. Asterios Kastoris and Mr. Christos Boukoros are in the ninth committee. Mr Dimitrios Baxvanakis, Mr Christos Karayannides and Mr. Iason Folilas are in the tenth editorial committee. I would ask the voters to count the votes and to export the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the educational program "The King and the Revolution" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the 3rd High School of Painters. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] You are currently monitoring the count of Members' votes for changes in the Constitution. There has been a debate on the changes that we need to make in the Constitution. We'll have the results soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall continue the sitting in the Senate Hall. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Definition of 24 January 2019 the “Airport Development Convention” Convention signed in Athens on 31 July 1995 and ratified by Law 2338/1995 (A'202)’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 11 February 2019 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle and on articles. I think the House agrees with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u33	The House agreed. But I have to tell you that there is a concern that others will claim it at 16.30 in this Chamber. If the counting of votes in the Chamber is not completed, there will be a problem. So the request is to understand this and, of course, if you agree, it is well. Mr. Dendia, have you asked for the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u34	Let's start, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u35	You're not listening, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u36	Let me repeat that this room is available until 16:30. I hope that the plenary sitting on counting will be empty, otherwise there will be a problem. That's what I mean and I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u37	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Maniotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, I imagine you're joking as a Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u40	No, I'm not speaking as the Bureau. I made an announcement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u41	No, I'm saying you're going to be joking, by addressing the plenary of the national Parliament for a contract - a EUR 600,000,000 scandal, tell us that there is no room available for those Members who want to speak. I would like to inform you, Mr President, that on behalf of the Democratic Alliance, apart from me, I am the rapporteur and Andrew Lovertos, who is a parliamentary representative, will be registered and spoken by other colleagues. Therefore, there is no misunderstanding that we agreed to hold the debate at a meeting - to show our good will - but the time of the speech will not be limited. As long as it goes! If those who count from Parliament to another Chamber want to be transferred, let them do so. We will be transferred to plenary. However, there can be no time limit for us to get to know each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u42	First of all, Mr. Maniatis, excuse me, I'm not joking. But I have to put this to you. You said your opinion. He's respected. I asked Mr. Teddy if he wants to say his own. But I'm not kidding.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u43	We like the room. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u44	I just made the announcement. I don't want to influence your views.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, let us start the process, see how many speakers are going to be. Of course, if there are speakers, the meeting cannot be stopped. That's for sure. We don't have to say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u46	I am obliged to express my thoughts and listen to your positions and follow them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, just know about your own information, because we do not have an automatic system for recording speakers, that at least Mr Carras, Mr Kegeroglu and Mr Koutsoukos will speak. I record at least three speakers for our part.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u48	Good. Mr Athanasios Athanasios, rapporteur of SYRIZA. Would you like 15 minutes? That's what the Rules of Procedure stipulate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u49	And less.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u50	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, in journalism we say:'monetary', 'teacher', 'teacher' and so on. And I've got five, I can do it backwards. But I really want less than 15 minutes and under the influence of the term'scandal' used by Mr Maniotis. I shall try to be very brief at all. The subject under discussion is offered for comparisons of policies, comparisons of contracts, comparisons of economic data, and even comparisons of personal behaviour. To be brief, I will confine myself to a few clays. Comparison for the first: we owe - and I say this for the New Democracy - to compare the initial concession agreement of 1993 signed by the then Prime Minister, the late Mitsotakis, with the contract signed after negotiation in 1995. As I said in committee, at that time the new government with Minister of Foreign Affairs Kostas Laliotis made two major changes. Change first: A 30-year concession period has been reduced, from the fifty foreseen in the original Mitsotakis government agreement, which means something very simple. The reduction from fifty to thirty years had accepted ruthless criticism, even from Mr Stefano Manos, is his article, that it is not in Greece's interest to reduce the concession time from fifty to thirty years. I said to the committee at that time: 'What does it mean to reduce the concession time from fifty to thirty years?' If the concession time were not reduced then, in thirty years, we would not have had these twenty years today to sell EUR 1.364 billion, i.e. EUR 1.115 million plus VAT. A second change: After the 1995 nego­tiations, the government increased its share of government from 45% to 55%, which the public maintains up to now. What does that mean? The Ministry of Finance manages 25% and 30% has been assigned since 2011 to the Ministry of Finance to sell. The public therefore stays in the contract with 25%. This would, of course, have been smaller if the public's share had not been increased from 45% to 55%. This is provided for in the Convention which was finalised in 1996. And here we have - let me say it - revenge of history. What was strongly criticised in 1995, with inaccurate charges and at a personal level, is currently sold EUR 1.115 million plus VAT. That's the revenge of history. Comparison 2: This is a price comparison. What is the main charge on the question submitted by the New Democracy to the Government? That we are not serving the public interest. To say: The Government of SYRIZA decided almost to offer the airport "Eleftherios Venizelos" for twenty years, but one year later, after intervention by the European Commission, the price was more than doubled. The Directorate-General for Competition considered that the price should be increased from EUR 484 million to EUR 1.115 million. To give, the New Democracy said, a scandal. Let's see the prices. What price did Evangelos Venizelos ask for? Draft budget report. I'll testify. Submitted to Parliament by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, Evangelos Venizelos, page 64. With the signature Evangelos Venizelos: "It is expected to be collected..." - not 484 million, not 1.115 million - "EUR 230 million since the extension of the Athens International Airport concession contract". I'll submit it to the Minutes. For the price of EUR 484 million, the GOI has issued several press releases from which I will submit two, that on 2 October 2017 and that on 31 May 2017. Both state that: ‘The completion of the transaction is subject to approval by the competent European authorities’. I'll testify to the Minutes. You didn't pay attention to the press releases. Did you have to pay attention to the Official Journal of the Government? 15 September 2017, issue 2nd, sheet number 3294. The extension contract is published there. Article 3 concerns the entry into force and its terms of reference. The European Commission's Directorate-General for Competition is the leading competition authority. And this - despite the fact that this is the case, this is the Official Journal of the Government - I will testify to it in the Minutes. The involvement of the European Commission is already provided for by Law 2338/1995, which ratified and acquired the Convention on the Development of the Airport. And I'll testify to that in the Minutes. Comparison third. Now we're going to get into political culture and compare behaviors. Large public works go beyond the term of not just one, two, three, but often eight, nine and ten governments, we have examples. During the surrender of the airport "Eleftherios Venizelos" the then competent Minister, Mr. Laliotis, said: "Today, from where they will smile with satisfaction and understanding, the great absentees, who fought at different times to become an international airport, worthy of the possibilities and perspectives of Greece. I'm sure Eleftherios Venizelos smiles, who envisioned the necessity for an international airport that bears his name honorably. Constantine Karamanlis has certainly been smiling, who, with his insistence on major works since 1978, chose the space and proceeded with the expropriations and the first competition. Andreas Papandreou, who managed to integrate this project in 1994, like all major national regional projects, into trans-European networks and ensure the necessary resources, is certainly smiling.' This is from the 'green bank'. I now come to the 'Blue Bank', and I would ask you to pay attention to the New Democracy. On June 10, 2004, George Souflias states: “To Kostas Laliotis connects us with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Now that I am sitting in this office, in spite of the differences in the policy that we normally have with Kostas, I understand and live every day the problems, which I am sure he also lived for eight years, and I must tell you that, despite my objections to certain things, he has presented a very good project." This political culture, at least at times, has been abolished today by the New Democracy, accusing the Government of ignoring the public interest, that is, for sales. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to mention something specifically about Eastern Attica. Article 9(6) of the 1995 Agreement stipulates that: ‘A rate of at least 10% of the revenue of the managing body established by this Article shall be available for the creation of a modern infrastructure and quality of life networks and for the provision of compensatory benefits in the wider region of the Mediterranean with a peak of Spata as part of the integrated spatial, settlement and development planning of the region’. This - let the Spataneans and the other Eastern Attica residents know - no longer apply. Who is responsible for not being valid? Who erased them? Who dropped them? The answer is painful. Those who went bankrupt the country, those who led us to the memorials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u53	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u54	You're welcome, Mrs. Zarulia.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u55	Mr President, I have to ask for the plenary to be suspended, because I have just been informed that the sitting is not public. The Rules of Procedure are public. You sell the Spatas for 20 years and you hide it? I'm sorry, I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u56	First of all, Mrs Zaroulia, you are addressing me and, as you know, I am not in the government's party, but in any case I am chairing it at the moment. Don't address me...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u57	I am not addressing you personally, Alas. I am addressing this House and demanding or being public in the House and continuing or stopping now, because that is unethical and there is nowhere in the Rules of Procedure. The plenary sessions are public.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u58	What I did as the Bureau is this. It's being transmitted from the web at the moment and I asked for the meeting to be properly broadcast...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u59	If it is transmitted, the meeting will continue. To be placed by the other parties, whoever wants them to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u60	I asked for the meeting to be properly broadcast from the beginning, so it is just a matter of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u61	If it's public, all right. To place the other parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u62	So don't get upset, you don't have to. The rapporteur-General of the New Democracy, Mr Vlachos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the role of the rapporteur, but also of all my fellow Members, who know that he must vote for the ratification of a contract at the same time as he knows that he cannot propose any modification and - most importantly - that those who negotiated could achieve something better, something more. In this spirit, the current government over the days of which the Convention's extension had to take place has come to light with concise procedures and without particular consideration at 24.2 million a year for the next twenty years. And the worst part is that when the agreement was signed with this incomplete price, the government said that signing the extension was a strong signal of confidence within and outside Greece for the Greek economy and constitutes the recognition of one of the most successful private and public partnerships. At that time, Mr Kostas Karamanlis as head of the sector tabled a question and raised a number of questions. So he said, then, “In other words, the price that the government signed in September 2017 was about 650 to 700 million less than that agreed this year”. It is logical that such a differentiation in the price for the twenty-year extension of Athens International Airport raises many questions. That is when my colleague said: What is the international competitive procedure that had been followed between '16-17' and the Agreement of 30 September 2017? If an international competition had not been followed, why has such a decision been taken contrary to European law? What study was based on the Greek State and the TIADED to determine the price of the extension of the ‘Eleftherios Venizelos’ airport? What was the European Commission’s view of the procedure chosen by the Government and led to the Agreement of 30 September 2017? What was the view of the Commission's Directorate-General for Competition on the price of EUR 600 million? Do you think that your Government serves the public interest when only a year ago had accepted the extension of the concession of the largest airport in the country with half the price that was finally agreed? The government then, ladies and gentlemen, did not actually answer. And what, really, when the Greek public was damaged by about 650 million euros? The government and you, Mr Minister, have expressed your displeasure at the fact that the New Republic of the case is a scandal. But how else would one have to characterise a case that you too admitted was wrongly assessed and which resulted in the loss of some EUR 700 million? Did you remind us in committee, Minister, of the press release you published in October '18, and actually what you're saying to us? You're telling us that responsibility was for HIAD. Who has it? And can the TIAD operate uncontrollablely? Is that what you mean? And can HIADE harm Greek society? And when that happens, the government and the Minister are just spectators? You told us that the extension agreement was sent to the European Union. It was sent by you? It had to be sent, it couldn't be done differently, it wasn't your choice. And when it came back amended and increased by about EUR 700 million, what were the consequences? It's just that there's been a mistake. Shall we go down? Just what do we do? And who guarantees us that this time it was done correctly? Do they themselves guarantee those who made the initial reduced assessment? You also told us that you did not negotiate, you did not decide on the price. Then why did the interministerial? And why did he recommend you? I mean the old price. And when you tell us that "you know, it was not done by the government, it was done by the GOI, by the TIAD, to which we do not intervene because it is an independent authority" there suddenly tells us that in the past only 200 million of the budget had been entered in the past. Why are you telling us this, since you know that these 200 million registered were not the result of the assessment, it was not the final price, it wasn't the end of the negotiation? They were then entered in the budget 200 million indicatively. So there is no comparison. Like us, we did not compare the 100 million that you entered in the ELPE budget. I would now like, Minister, to come to another issue that I raised in committee, the famous 10% that my colleague, Mr Athanasios, referred to, and was in the framework of the compensatory benefits to the neighbouring municipalities of Eleftherios Venizelos. In response to my words in committee you said that this was in the Greek contract and not for the airport. That works in practice. That is why we asked the Greek to have a management and utilisation body in the common areas. That was not in the airport contract, you told us, Minister. This is, of course, a mistake, because the contract with the provisions of Article 9 of Law 2338/95 provided for the establishment of a Legal Personnel of Private Law based in Athens and the name "Athens-based Management Organisation of the Greek Republic of Athens" while in paragraph 4 it was mentioned that a presiding decree issued on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance and the Environment, Spatial Planning and Public Works regulates the specific objectives of the institution, their ways and means of fulfilling them, its resources, its administrative bodies, the formation, etc. At least 10% of the revenues of the managing body set up under this article are therefore available for the creation of a modern infrastructure and quality of life networks, as well as for the provision of compensatory benefits in the wider Spata Mediterranean region under the integrated spatial planning and development plan of the region. This provision therefore constituted a form of financial compensation particularly common to all Member States of the European Union in respect of the active environmental and social consequences of the installation and operation in the wider Mediterranean region of one of Europe's largest airports, as well as in exchange for the tens of thousands of acres in order to serve the needs of this airport. So don't say that there was no such provision. Of course, Article 42 of Law 3943/2011 provides: ‘Fighting tax evasion, administering the audit services and other provisions’ provided for the establishment of a homonymous company under the name ‘Greek - Real Estate Management and Restoring Company of the Hellenic Company’ and with the distinctive title ‘Greek SA’. The legislation referred to in Article 9 of Law No 2338/95 has been repealed and the specific provision of Article 9(4) of the Law has consequently been abolished. 2338, for the compulsory disposal of at least 10% of the area of the former airport. Furthermore, Article 10(2) of Law 3631/2008 provides - and this is the important, Minister - for the purposes of Article 25.6 of the Airport Development Convention, as ratified by the first article of Law 2338/95, the procedure for the enforcement and collection of compensation and other municipal or Community charges, taxes or charges by the Municipality of Spata, Paienia, Marcopoulou, Mesogeia, Artemis, Rafena and Koropiou, as well as by any other beneficiary local government body to the detriment of the company ‘DINININS AEROLIMENA’. So, 10% was there, it was alive, despite the changes that existed. Of course, that's when the government changed, and this famous CIA was never signed. This does not mean, however, that the state has no continuity and that everyone can change what comes from them every time. So today, in order to become substantial, a solution must be found. There's a promise. Mr. Athanasios felt the need to report to Mr. Laliotis about what changed at the time...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u64	And Suffly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u65	...for what changed from 1993 to 1995, which actually changed, the fifty and twenty plus twenty, the rate increased. However, the sum of 100-150 million was reduced. So there were differences, which no one can weigh exactly. I'm sure there were differences. Where there was no differentiation was 10%, for which Mr Laliotis then insisted on the 1995 Convention, and I have here reports from the then mayors about how much he promised them, how much he threw them off. It was absolutely nothing. The inconsistency of the Greek state over the years. So we are coming today, Minister, and we really feel the need to call for the government's political commitment and for your own personal work to be done in the wider region. A solution must therefore be given. It would be extremely important if, for example, there were legislation providing for the provision to the municipalities of the Mediterranean that I mentioned earlier of a percentage of the total public profits from the extension of the airport contract. I must say, however, to all my fellow Members that the Mediterranean municipalities are not asking to save and well to give them cash, to give them money. The municipalities want the compensatory measures promised by the government at the time and never acted. So they want the government to take responsibility, with a specific timetable, for carrying out some or some projects in all these municipalities which, after all, need them both from the presence of them and from the operation of the airport. This is what we are going to do today and we will do it again until it is implemented because, as I said, it was a promise from time to time that various people have tried to escape. The request is alive, it is current, Minister, and we would like you to commit on behalf of the Government what responsibilities you take towards the Mediterranean municipalities. I come to the second loose end, because we're talking about the past. The second pendingity left by this 1995 contract, Mr Athanasios, is that while for the airport it took about 16,000 acres to operate the entire complex we see, an additional 22,000 acres were committed, called the 'Restricted Airport Area', for future use, use by the airport. Thirty years have passed since then, and this exploitation has never come. But the commitment exists. These 22,000 acres belong to our fellow citizens who, of course, will say that they can do some work, to some extent there may be some growth. Because that - I must say and clarify to say real things here - can, on the basis of Presidential Decree No 5/1979, that is, FEC 707 IV, make use of them by building certain warehouses. They have some use that I must say, Minister, that it is indeed more favourable than the ones in force under the Presidential Decree on the Mediterranean Zone, that is, outside that area. But tell me, who's going to make a development move, a development energy, who's going to invest in an area that knows at all times that the airport can come and expropriate it? Who's going to do the investment? That's the commitment we're talking about, not if they can build a warehouse. It's a commitment, it's a hostage, which has to end. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And here the request for us is very clear. The request, Minister, has two things to do with it. One is to rapidly reduce this area commitment, twenty-two thousand acres, when the entire airport has sixteen thousand acres. Why do we have to keep them committed? To be reduced and attributed to the owners to take advantage of them, as everyone thinks. And secondly, if they remain committed - if they are appreciated, I say - to give some incentive, for example, to transfer a coefficient, or say something else, so that these owners feel that this property they are taxed and paid for is their own and they can do what they want and can use it and there is no one to hold them in 30 years' hostage. And we've been telling him for another twenty years. I mean, not for a lifetime, but for two lives. If you think that this is right and that this is a development measure and we celebrate the airport's investment, I think that we do not identify things on the same terms and that your definition has nothing to do with reality. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will be done in a minute. I asked you the committee yesterday, with regard to Article 4.1, if, before 11 June 2026, this Convention becomes invalid for any reason, etc. - not to read it - some clarifications as to what the Greek public should be obliged to return and how exactly. Because there are some references here, and here we find that there is a loose end. We don't know how it can turn out. In order to prevent this, however, we would like your explanations. You did not give them to the committee. We want you to give them to us today. And until we hear your commitments to what I have said, we reserve our vote on this ratification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr. Vlacho.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u68	What do you want, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u69	I'd like to testify something for the Minutes. As the honourable Member does not want to remain inaccurate, we have answered Mr Karamanlis's question. And for the next speakers, who know that they are getting more and more lines from your party, so that they too do not make the same mistake, I just want to submit the answer we have given to Mr Karamanlis's question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u70	After I made a reference to the press release you published. What else is there?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Vlavo, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u72	Minister, were you telling us about us? You didn't say about us. There's nothing like this here. He's not going to go through that kind of thing against us again. We're talking straight.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Loverdo, ask why I should give it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u74	I don't want the floor. I just wanted one clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u75	Okay, but don't do it like on the TV that's talking to each other. Ask for the floor, I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u76	Mr President, I would like a few seconds to say something about what the Minister said. I read a revulsion from my colleague's text, and I also invoked the press release you brought us. You're not saying anything more. On substance, there is no disagreement, since what you had to say in the bulletin.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u77	I just wanted to say that we have answered Mr Karamanlis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u78	You answered, as you had to answer a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u79	Please don't have an interactive conversation. The special speaker of the Democratic Association, Mr Maniotis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, I thought I had seen everything in this House. Looks like we haven't seen everything. There has never been a parallel meeting of two plenary sessions of the national Parliament ever since the transfer to date. We here are a plenary, and at the same time down, in the counting for the Revision of the Constitution, there is another plenary. Have you ever seen, not only in Greece, but in any other European country, a parallel meeting of two plenary sessions? In fact, one of these two plenary sessions, one of ours, which relates to a financial item of more than EUR 1 billion, is not being transmitted directly, but will be transmitted, I imagine, later. Furthermore, I would like to repeat, Mr President - because you represent the Bureau - that is to say not to think of the government shortening the time of the speeches on the convention we are discussing, because it will be a parliamentary coup. What do we have in front of us now? In front of us we have the most revealing contract of the Greek State in the ten years of the memorandum. What does this contract reveal? It reveals three things. Firstly, it is the biggest scandal in SYRIZA over EUR 630 million, since they would give us a contract of EUR 1,115 billion for twenty years compared with EUR 484 million and then the double slap in the European Competition Committee. But the scandal has the name and the technocrats and the ministers. The second revelation of the contract is: The current contract for ratification extends the 1995 PASOK Convention, the Andreas Papandreou Convention. I would like to thank you, Mr Athanasios - in fact, because I fully appreciate you - as rapporteur of SYRIZA I would like to thank you for the anthems to PASOK, Andreas Papandreou and Laliotis, but I would ask you to tell us elsewhere, that is, Mr Tsipras and your colleagues to SYRIZA who - exceptionally from you - have said that PASOK destroyed Greece, that the repatriation was the worst period of the modern Greek state and that Andreas was the man who led together with the other Prime Ministers of PASOK Greece into bankruptcy. Today you come here and - as Vangelis Venizelos says - you lick where you spit! You should tell your voters publicly. It's none of your business, I repeat. You're a dear colleague and I'm glad you have this suggestion. However, this convention reveals the historical, political and moral justice of PASOK, which received the colonial Convention of New Democracy in 1995, and renegotiated it with the same technical and economic object as I will tell you shortly afterwards. The third revelation of the contract is the revelation of how SYRIZA sells beer despite the public property, how by exploiting the supremacy of colonialism that in 2016 Mr. Tsipras legislated on his own, he sells out what constitutes national wealth with specific values and goodwill. To answer, indeed, Mr Athanasios, but also Mr Tsakalotos, for what was provided for in the 2011 and 2012 PASOK budgets, I will tell you that the EUR 230 million was the private person's participation, because it is obviously not taken into account when the public as shareholder is giving the other public pocket. I'm saying that, so we can get to know each other. But how did we get this far? In 1993, the Government of New Democracy initialled a colonial contract with the HOCHTIEF for the construction and operation of the airport. In 1995, the PASOK Government Andreas Papandreou puts the question of renegotiation. And the renegotiation is completed in September 1995, with the same technical object, with the same private equity, as the private sector. What did the PASOK win? Firstly, from 60% of the private's 'HOCHTIEF', we downloaded it to 40%. Secondly, the 50 years of concession co-existence decreased to thirty years. You are here today, Minister, that often with courage you want to imply that PASOK follows the New Democracy, but, it seems, you are much better students of the New Democracy in the memoirs. Don't worry, you'll hear it right now, because now that your partner, Mr. Kammenos, has left you, who you've been with for four years, you've been trying to get caught somewhere. But it won't do you a favor for the Change Movement. The third improvement of PASOK. For ninety-nine years, all sixteen thousand five hundred acres of the surrounding zone and twenty-two thousand acres of the so-called Buffer Zone, the ‘Netherlands’, were assigned and would be for ninety-nine years after the contract at the disposal of the individual. That's cut. Once the contract ends, this area returns to the Greek State. Fourthly, with the private investor's own money, the same investment, major improvements have been made in the technical field. More specifically and indicatively: Instead of the German anti-Semitism regulation provided for by the HOCHTIEF standards, we oblige them to implement the Greek anti-Semitism regulation, which is much stricter and put in place specific measures to help disabled people and many other improvements. The fifth improvement of PASOK is as follows: The New Democracy Convention provided the board of directors of the company with six representatives of the private sector. We took them down to four and instead of three representatives of the government, we make four public representatives and a common acceptance. These PASOK interventions were assessed quantitatively, economically, by Ernst & Young and it is revealed that at 1995 prices it won the Greek State 330m euros. Today, to get together, this public property, for which Greek citizens can be proud as users of the airport, but also as shareholders of 55% of this investment, contributes 4.4% to the Gross Domestic Product and creates an eighty thousand new jobs. This is PASOK's project. So we can come over and see what SYRIZA's doing. SYRIZA in 2016 begins and with the superstition begins direct negotiations with the company. I shall submit to you, for the Minutes, Article 4.2 of the 1995 Convention, which states a number of things, of which I shall read out a quote. ‘The Greek State and the airport company shall open negotiations after the expiry of 30 years, but without this binding one of them, in order to decide whether they can agree on conditions on which this Convention may be extended for a further period of time’. The 1995 Convention therefore said that it could not agree to the public service. And we come in and make the first of the questions: Minister, when you started the negotiations with the Consortium, how much did you have as a threshold to get as revenue from the Greek State? How low was it, how realistic and how much was your optimistic scenario? I ask, because you agreed to the EUR 484 million which means that you are pleased! Here I would like to put forward the proposal of the Change Movement as a party and the Democratic Participation as a parliamentary group. We believe that the airport of Spata had to come out with an international competition in order to maximise the benefits of the Greek public. I am tabling Rule 4.2. for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So we expect him to tell us how the negotiations started. Next question: why did you close the deal in 2018, in 2017, in 2016 and did not wait for for example after two years - do you not let it spend two years? - to have finished the international airport's loans, not to have a loan charge and to have a net revenue? Ladies and gentlemen, do you know how much revenue the international airport has? This is the 2017 balance sheet. Because we will speak with documents unlike the government that wants to hide the truth. Therefore, the 2017 Balance Sheet shows that the international airport has a gross revenue of EUR 285 million. I'm presenting it, please, for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This means that the EUR 480 million that you have agreed is about the net profit of just two years. How is this justified by the wisdom of a professor of finance? What's this negotiation? Mr Minister, you also told us that you had nothing to do with it, you have nothing to do with it, because the HICP is negotiating - and you are doing nothing. You do 'paper pushing', 'push the cards'. Minister, this page is the editorial report on the contract you have presented to us today, colleagues and colleagues of the SYRIZA. Here's what Mr. Tsakalotos writes on the first page of the contract, which he has invited you to ratify. It says on the first page: “The extension agreement was approved by the decision of the Interministerial Committee on Deprivation 261/13-09-2017.” In other words, Minister, you here in the document say that you have approved the contract. So you agreed. So you're not irresponsible. So you have a responsibility for what you signed. And it is not just you, but the entire five-member Interministerial Committee, which is composed of the Members - to speak with names - Tsakalotos, Spirtzi, Stathakis, Mrs Ahtsoglou and Mr Papadimitriou. When I did not ask you in the summer of 2018 a question about what is going on with this case, you wisely referred to what'mug', you did not give any answer at all. Mr. Spirjis, however, pleads unreserved. What is unauthorized? Here he has signed this convention for privatization. I'm putting it down, please, for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I now come to the most profoundly insulting action of the current government. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, the government is calling on you to ratify an agreement. Do you know on the basis of what documentation you're agreeing to? On the basis of three series of a press release by Commissioner Vestager, which says that EUR 1,115 billion is a reasonable market price,'market price'. You have nothing else in your hands. You are giving twenty years the largest possible asset of the Greek State, not having you, who will be invited to vote as MPs, absolutely nothing, except that the European Commissioner said that it is a market price. The procedure for the national Parliament is insulting. And the Minister tried to lie to the committee that because he is a good man and loves transparency he sent it - so because he wanted - to the European Committee on Competition. So here is the corresponding regulation of the European Competition Committee, which on its third page has a special chapter on airports and infrastructure and the obligation of the Member States when making any intervention relating to the market in airports, to send it to the European Competition Committee for Control. I would like to put this before you, too, for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I now come to the questions that have been asked. First question: Based on what assumptions, what financial models, the financial advisors of the GOI and the board of directors of the GOI have recommended you to the EUR 484 million? We want these studies to be presented in the Minutes of the national Parliament. We asked for it in committee. Mr Tsakalots refused to give the Greek people and the national Parliament an insight into it. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Secondly, what are the minutes of the board of directors of the GOI, which decided to accept the recommendation of the financial advisors concerned? Have you asked for the resignations of these people who have given you a decision on the basis of which you have given a private person ECU 630 million? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Third question: what are the minutes and what are the positions of the four appointed by your Government representatives of the Greek State on the Board of Directors of the International Airport of Athens, who accepted this agreement and have, in their knowledge, damaged the public interest by 630 million? You quit them? Did you ask for apologies? What exactly have you done? And I'm talking about the four persons you appointed as representatives of the Greek State on the administrative board of the airport.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u81	How much longer will it take, Mr. Maniots?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u82	Two or three minutes and I shall end, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u83	Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u84	I'll say the most cryptic now. Will you SYRIZA colleagues agree to vote in favour of a two-and-a-half-page contract for everyone, where there is not the most important text, which is the decision of the Competition Committee which records the whole history, all the evaluations and assessments of the European Commission? What exactly are you going to cancel? Why don't we just say the Minister implements the orders he gets from the lenders. Obviously! You who are free to convene MPs, what exactly will you ratify without knowing the documentation of the European Competition Committee? Next question: Minister, there have been reports that the European Commission has asked you to proceed to an open international competition and you have refused it. Is it true or isn't it? And last question, before I come to my summary conclusions. Minister, Mr Chakalote, if you forget that you are a Minister of Finance and you only retain the status of Professor of Finance at a Greek public university and the Member of the national Parliament, would you vote in favour of this Convention? Are those what you teach your children compatible with what you now bring the national Parliament to vote on? I'm sure if you answer with honesty, you'll say no. I shall conclude, Mr President, with three brief conclusions. I shall say the first conclusion on the contract that we have before us. The particular contract that comes to extend the 1995 PASOK Convention is the historic vindication of a party and a leader who has increased with values and value the public property, which has protected the public interest. We look into the eyes of citizens, because we increased their property. On the contrary, you're the one who sells it. Second conclusion: what exactly will happen when the majority of you give up the operation of the airport in the consortium for another twenty years? What exactly will happen with the prices, with the values of the shares, which you will sell after the extension of the contract? Is it not obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that the government will sell devaluation shares of a good for which the proposed buyer knows that for the next twenty years the manager will be someone else? This requires a full national understanding of what will happen from now on. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, as a Change Movement, we have made our political position clear. The supremacy of colonialism must be abolished and the national fund for the exploitation of public property, movable and immovable, in which the board of directors and supervisory board will appoint it, appoint it and approve it by the national Parliament, the Greek Parliament, the Greek citizens. We are therefore committed, on the occasion of this scandalous agreement that we have before us, which we will obviously vote against, to seeking the abolition of the surplus fund and the transformation into a fund for the exploitation of public property, where the administration will appoint it by the Greek State and approve it by the National Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u85	We proceed with Mrs Eleni Zarulia, a special speaker of the Golden Dawn for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honestly, after Mr Maniotis' position, I do not understand why the House agreed to meet two plenary sessions and a very important one, such as this one, not to be transmitted live. Allow me, Mr President, because this is the only step taken by the Golden Dawn, before I refer to the bill, to what points and monsters are happening here in the temple of your democracy. Such democracy has long been seen, it's the truth. The third political party, then, lacks Vice-President, while all parties in the so-called constitutional arch, even those which do not even constitute a parliamentary group. Let us not forget that lately there have been changes in the Rules of Procedure to bring them to your stand. The third political party, then, is racistly faced with the whole constitutional arch and in violation of any concept of law, you are not coming to answer the parliamentary control of members of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, which represents a respected percentage of the electorate. After all, the President of our parliamentary group, Mr Michaloliacos, told you this yesterday. But your Bolshevik ear doesn't sweat. It is not a few times that you are pricking our speakers back, even our Secretary-General, Nikolaos Michaloliakos, thinking you are doing something. Resistance to fascism? Humans! But know that you have not achieved anything at all. On the contrary, the given success of the Golden Dawn is that in the coming elections, although you have disappeared from the media of mass deception, even though you have cut the state funding by means of a photographic law that becomes unconstitutional, even though you do not owe 1 euro to any bank, the Golden Dawn only because it expresses the will of the Greek people, it will have increased its rates and will be with more MPs in the seat of the Parliament. Let me come to the bill now. Legislative regulation, which extends for more than twenty years - until 2046 - to the investors of Canada, local and other, the Athens International Airport in the Spata of Attica, comes to a vote in the House. A concession of public property, which is clearly economically profitable in favour of all the investors, who make up the ‘Airport Company’, with the exception of, of course, the Greek people and their financial interests. Of course, the first and foremost for this sale of the public assets of the Greek people and for the benefit of foreign and local capitalists was New Democracy in 1993. The sale was continued by PASOK, which in 1995 signed the concession contract for the airport, ratified by Law 2338/1995 with Laliotis signature and then signed by Evangelos Venizelos, under the decision of the Interministerial Committee on Restructuring and Privatization, which transferred to our country's extinguishing tool and the confiscation of our public property, the WHO. I referred in detail to the committee. History is well known and we don't have to repeat it. After PASOK, then, the turn of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks to continue selling out the public property of the Greek people came. The direct award without international competition was completed in the summer of 2017 with the two parties - the TIAD and the shareholders of the management company - to conclude that for the additional twenty years of the operation of Athens International Airport - by 2046 - investors would have to pay the sum of EUR 484 million, i.e. about EUR 24,2 million per year. And of course, the Greek people would be damaged by about 631 million euros. On September 30, 2017, the Minister of Finance Euklidis Tsakalotos signed the contract with investors - shareholders of Athens International Airport. However, given the fact that there was no open and transparent competition for the extension of the contract, which, according to Union law, is subject to State aid, the Commission had intervened in order to check it in detail by the Directorate for Competition of the European Union. And what did the Commission find out? Co-rapporteur and agreed attempt to sub-collect the price from both parties, Greek public and investors shareholders, something like co-operation, that is. Thus, the Competition Directorate of the Commission forced the parties - the Greek State, the SYRIZA - ANEL and Canadian and local private investors - to redefine the price by increasing it to around 127%, i.e. to the amount of EUR 1.115,000 and to the taxes involved at around EUR 1,382,000. The price was set on the basis of erroneous data - SYRIZA claims to have taken an old date - and data that under no circumstances reflected the real operation, the economic situation and image of the international airport. The procedures followed were not transparent and raise questions. Such procedures have also been initiated in the committee responsible, which raises many questions for us. The first cause of the question is the choice of the committee not to call on the stakeholders. Clearly it is an obligation for the committee to invite the bodies to be heard, particularly in this case and as it has evolved. The second question raised here concerns the reason why the bodies were not invited. Is this an option related to the letter sent to the Government in early January 2019 by the Director-General of the International Airport, in order to explain to him the delay in signing and ratifying this agreement by Parliament? In a letter sent by the Director General of Athens International Airport on 4 January 2019 to the Minister of Finance and notified it to the Ministry of Finance, he objected to the Government and demonstrated the consequences of the inactivity of the SYRIZA Government. I would like to refer here to what I think is necessary. At the HIADE, managing director is Ranja Catherineari, the daughter of the former SYRIZA MP, Aminina Xerotyri - Catherineari, who Ranian Catherineari was referred to and tried at the Triumphant Court of Appeal for the felony of infidelity with the damage caused to exceed the sum of 120,000 euros. In particular, it covers the sum of EUR 74 million, about a ghost project by PPC in Rhodes. The Golden Dawn had in the past asked if what is published is true, if the trial has been done, where is it, if it has been acquitted, convicted. We haven't received a reply. I will put before you the three topical questions I have tabled and you democrats have never come to answer them, as well as the one that refers to this lady's trial. So what do we got here? We have the HIAD with a CEO, who is also a defendant and Mr Tsakaloto, who is substituting a contract. What's going on here? Do we have a criminal organization in sight? It's weird. There's something wrong with me. Is this an accident? Is this really a matter of inertia? Is this a matter of intentional actions? Time and events will show it soon. Also, as I mentioned in the committee, a very important issue arises as a result of the attempted extension given by this sanction. At the same time, it is extended until 2046 and the closure of the Greek airport and the incredible monopoly of the private airport of Spatas at the expense of the country's national and air interests and needs. And, today, in 2019, there is still an airport in Greek. In committee I referred to Law 2338/1995 on the closure of the Greek airport, which does not say "repeal", but "extends the closure of the Greek airport by 2046, after ensuring that the Greek State ensures that during the contractual period "no new or existing airport will become international", i.e. through commercial operation of twenty or more seats, internal lines, etc. For the economy of the debate, I will table in Minutes the relevant decision 1938/2010 of Section IV of St.E. You prove by every action you're doing that you're all the same. You wished for all your majesty. This designation is attributed to you for the sake of your actions, which all serve the different economic interests and in no case the economic and national interests of our country and of the Greek nation. Golden Dawn calls for the modification of the above contractual terms so that Athens ceases to be a third-world colony, but at any time has the alternative political airport in the Greek, as long as this still remains intact and in operational readiness to welcome flights again. We will continue to fight for the reopening of the airport in Greek. Before I close, since I have a little time, and because I have no more Step, as I said at the beginning, Mr President, please allow me to draw the attention of our compatriots, because the elections are coming and they must be a little careful. The New Democracy is SYRIZA. What? Isn't it? New Democracy has passed 60% of SYRIZA bills, according to the CEFIM survey in November 2018. New Democracy voted for the SYRIZA memorandum in August 2015, voted for the Islamic mosque to the Botanic that SYRIZA brought, voted for the homosexual coexistence pact, voted for the gender change to up to 15-year-old children, voted for citizenship to illegal immigrants. He agrees with the abolition of religious in schools. He agrees with the separation of Church - State and silence in SYRIZA's plans. He agrees with the creation of hot spots for illegal immigrants in our country. He agrees with the action of foreign agents from non-governmental organisations in our country. He condemned Orban as a fascist in the European Parliament along with SYRIZA. He closed in prison Greek nationalist MPs illegally and without evidence, because he was voting for it along with SYRIZA, PASOK, KKE and ANEL. He has unlawfully cut state funding in the third party of the Greek Parliament since 2013 along with SYRIZA, PASOK and ANEL, as I said before, by a photographic law that is unconstitutional. Silently guilty in the murder of two Nationalist youths, Fountoulis and Capeloni, from left in November 2013. He voted for the anti-racist law, which criminalised all of us. The New Democracy wants a complex name for Skopje, as does SYRIZA. The New Democracy was contrary to the rallyings until the millions of people saw and ran for the noodles. When SYRIZA brought the Prespecies Agreement to Parliament, we told them to make a motion of censure. They refused. We objected to anti-constitutionalism, because the Prespecies Agreement must be passed by a hundred and eighty Members and voted against it, while the Treasury was screaming in the House that the New Democracy does not collide with the fascists. While with the Communists he's fine! Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We asked them to prevent treason and resign along with PASOK and us, so that the country could go to elections throughout the country, and SYRIZA would collapse. They refused that, too. We proposed to hold a referendum. They refused. No, the New Democracy is not SYRIZA, it's worse than SYRIZA. It's a party of crooks and traitors. It is a party that has been deceiving the gullible Greek conservative voters for forty-five years. As far as the bill is concerned, Mr President, we are voting in favour of the principle and the whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u87	The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamanto Manolakos for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u88	The bill is not ratification because it is not an international treaty. It is an agreement at national level, so it is a bill. We are voting against the extension of the Athens International Airport concession because, firstly, we had voted against the concession agreement. In fact, we denounced it as a major political and economic scandal in the government, at the time, of PASOK. And it has a selective memory, because the agreement with the German HOCHTIEF consortium had indeed caused even through the voting process. Hundreds of pages had been brought last minute. Of course, HOCTIEF resold its share to a Canadian company. Then, in the summer of August 1995, during the debate, the then government of PASOK continued to produce new documents, such as the last-minute amendments by SYRIZA. He's taken from the teacher! I say them to remind you, because it is not just the process, but it is also an agreement and implementation of the European Territories Liberation Directive at the airports in the Community that you agree with and implement. That is why it is continuing with other governments. The policy of the form of privatisation continued, and later with the medium-term framework of a fiscal strategy, where apart from the taxation of people's incomes, it also planned privatisations of mammoths of state-owned assets of EUR 50 billion. And it continued in the third memorandum of SYRIZA you all voted for. And it is hypocrisy to protest now, since it clearly and clearly referred to privatisation, saying: 'The government is now determined to move forward with an ambitious privatisation programme'. You've all voted for it. And now zealously, I would say, and speed after the Quartet's remarks on delays in privatisation, it goes on. In fact, the ratification of the agreement to extend the international airport concession for another twenty years falls under the objective and programme of the TEAD in order to speed up the sale of 30% of the airport. And here you are silenced by all the parties of counterpopulation. Secondly, it is the only airport in Lecanopod and a radius of two hundred kilometres, along with the other fourteen most strategic and profitable airports in the country, which operates the 'FRAPORT' monopoly. In fact, all of you, today and previous governments, have given the air market to private individuals. This means that they can control who and when they fly, what prices are formed and control, literally, the air market in the country. And you too agree that you are voting against. Thirdly, privatisation still does not guarantee workers, as does the original PASOK and New Democracy - it does not concern you, nor do you refer to workers - at a time when there is an increase in passenger traffic at Athens' airport. For example, official figures themselves say that 10% compared to 2017 and 75% compared to 2014. Of course, there is an increase in the profits of companies in the industry. However, the workers are faced with increased intensification, exhausting shifts, flexible hours and hunger wages as a result of this growth. In other words, they experience, along with the records of the numbers of flights and passengers, taking off their hours, intensification and oppression. That's the truth. And for them you have no word to say. Fourthly, the fixing of tickets by a private person also affects the tourist industry. However, the essence is that the "Eleftherios Venizelos" airport is one of the most expensive in the world. Of course, tourist traffic is not affected by the most expensive tickets. Why? Because the tourist product is shaped through all packages. However, the popular layers of our country, which are forced to pay expensive tickets and to find it difficult to access them in the end, are affected. Mostly, your tourist development is accurate to the people, but profitable to the big companies. Fifth, it refers to Article 4 of the bill - which I read almost self-evidently - as follows: ‘This Convention contains the full agreement between the Parties on the extension of the contractual period and prevails any prior agreement between them’. What does it mean? That the unacceptable contract is even worse, reaching the point of amending Article 5(1) of the Convention, as stated in the Annex, namely that this Convention will prevail over all Greek law, general or specific. This means that even in exceptional cases of war conflict, it outweighs the interest, the profit of the businessman, which you also reserve. In fact, the interests of the country and the people do not apply to the difficult situations. That's right. You are protecting foreign capital provokingly, with colonial articles of the Constitution and laws that you, as opposition, have denounced as colonial. Now that's what you're strengthening. Finally, I cannot fail to point out the consistency between the governments of you, which are interchangeable, in the continuation of anti-popular and barbaric policy. Where one ends, one begins at all costs of the popular strata. This is also apparent in the liberalisation of air transport, but also in this agreement. Otherwise, you can argue about the level of price rather than about the substance of the matter, that air transport is in the hands of business groups rather than public interests, and you can avoid the deterioration of terms and the exploitation of workers. As you can see, we are voting against the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Diamanto Manolakou. In the absence of Mr Cavaldela - we will be waiting for him - to give the floor to Mr Ilias Panayotarou, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn and then to Mr Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u90	Will the speakers talk later?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u91	We also have speakers. We have Mr Voridis, who is not yet here, Mr Carras, who is also not here. We'll see. We'll move on alternating.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u92	It would be useful to hear the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u93	Mr. Cavalellas is here. Mr. Panayotus, do you object to giving your place to Mr. Cavalella?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u94	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u95	Here, Mr Cavadela, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u96	I would also like to thank the President-in-Office and Mr Panayotarou for the service. Today we come to ratify by law the 20-year extension of the 'Eleftherios Venizelos' concession from 11-6-2026 to - we said 20 years - in 2046. This extension was signed a few days ago, on January 24, 2019, between the Greek State, TIADED and Athens International Airport. Of course, the whole case starts a long time ago, from 1993 onwards in 1995. In 1993, they said, a initialling had been made and later changed in a positive direction, rather, until 31-7-1995 with the ratification of Law 2338/1995. The contract therefore came into force on 11-6-1996. This contract was thirty years old. The text of the contract provided that, within at least 10 years before the end of the contractual period, the Greek State and the airport manager would open some negotiations for the extension of the concession. And this is where the drama begins. Negotiations have taken place since 2016 which resulted in the signature of the original 20-year extension contract on 30-9-2017 compared to the extraordinarily low amount of EUR 483 million. In fact, it was about 24 million euros a year plus VAT, while the real dynamics of the airport - according to 2017 performance - was EUR 285 million. We have therefore given it under the first contract EUR 24 million per year. We presented this to our partners and lenders, who, of course, rejected this price of EUR 483 million. They called it a very low one and asked for a renegotiation, which took place on both sides. With the new negotiation, then, the new offer, which reached EUR 1.1 billion, was an improvement of 130%, that is, EUR 631 million, gave us more. It was therefore necessary for the European Commission to intervene. They always need strangers to pull our ears to get in the straight path, to ask for more. I wonder: If you would sell your house, would you? Why has there not been an open, international competition, to be able to benefit more? Of course, we understand why. Now you're asking us to ratify this new price and the new situation. But now we're skeptical. You've taken care of us. The justifications were cheap, that the GOI is an independent authority and that you do not interfere with the independent authority. But then things got settled. It's a lot of money. The benefit is great, as I said. We refuse to support this new situation, because we do not have the thinking in our hands. On what basis has the Directorate for Competition of the European Commission rejected the first offer? What did you say to each other? What did you agree to? What did the government agree with the Commission? Well, I'm sure we don't have any evidence at this time. The only thing we have is that it yields about 285 million a year clean, according to the figures of 2017. We therefore disagree vertically with this agreement and refuse to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr. Cavadela. Mr Ilias Panayotaros, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Airport "Eleftherios Venizelos": It is a case as sinful as the hates of billions of drachmas received or sacked by comrade Tsukatos on behalf of PASOK, as he said in his previous statement. And, what a coincidence, this all happened in the same period. During the same period - 1995-96 - the airport's final concession contracts were signed at HOCTIEF, and at the same time Mr Tsukatos said in his statement that he received billions of drachmas from too many companies - not just from SIEMENS - on behalf of PASOK. It is a practice - it says - and a tactic that was made for the other parties that were ruling alternately at that time. If we turn back a little bit of time, the first signature had entered the Mitsotakis government in 1993. In 1995-1996, on the basis of a governmental signature, the final signature was signed. It was the first - if I am not mistaken - that was done and signed under English law, as it says. Any disputes will be resolved in Luxembourg courts. The comrades knew something at the time when they signed in 1995 for English law and Luxembourg courts. Because the company operating the airport, HOCHTIEF, clothed, intercepted, made more than 400 million euros from the Greek State, because it was quite simply collecting the VAT, but never paid it to the Greek State, because it was in this incredible contract. And when everyone became a boukon for this disgrace, the Greek state was forced to hire a very large law firm abroad, which received a fee of around EUR 50 million in order to claim the more than EUR 400 million, VAT that was never paid to the Greek State. Of course, the case is lost because the contract had anticipated this. Nobody was punished. 'What a pity, some mistake'. And not only that, but the HOCHTIEF also reached municipal fees and any other tax it had to pay to the municipality to which the airport is subject, to the neighbouring municipalities and all of this, without ever paying anything. In the end, as we said, the court won and was rewarded by the Greek State, because after all this had been done and left the airport's management and operation, it took - along with "KAKOPA" and a couple of other companies - all the contracts for the construction of the road network and the Peloponnese and northern Greece and Ionia Street and everywhere. Wherever you go now, in all these inaugurations that have taken place over the last two or three years, you will see everywhere, wide-planned, the "HOCHTIEF". To understand what banana we are living in and who are ruling this place. If Escobar were to live, he would have given up his activities and gone to open a canteen on a South American beach, seeing all of this. Of all that happened then, we reach the new contract. Instead of having learned from these disgraces that have happened and been happening, you have given by direct assignment, for the sake of incomplete honor, to one - notice, "in one", you are holding this - the operation of the airport for too many years. And the European Union, which through our memoranda and our partners, has forced us to sell everything out and says: 'Hey, what are you doing here? This isn't a sale. This is a gift". So you're forced and changed the price and you're almost doubled. The new exploiter doesn't say a word. Imagine how much it has to collect in the years it will be exploited. In other words, the whole story was this: you gave for mirrors and beads the continued operation of the airport and became a vamp so that the mirrors would be a little more. And to go back back to the first "Eleftherios Venizelos" convention, where apart from everything we said about VAT, about English law, about the Luxembourg courts, there were other terms of mystery and strange. To understand what a liberal economy is for you, there was and there is still a condition that within 100 kilometres there should be no other airport. That's why the Greek was closed. The nearest airport - to see what's going on - is in the Megaras. And where it was an airport where there were only a few planes to make amateur parachutism, if someone is now going to see even a literary jet lying there, very simply because the cost of "Eleftherios Venizelos" is huge as a monopoly airport. You'll see that the fire-fighting helicopters, police helicopters and various other state services are not at Elefsina Airport, which could be parked free of charge. They are located in "Eleftherios Venizelos" and they pay a high price. In response questions from Members of the Golden Dawn, but I imagine others, at regular intervals, the answers given to us are "three speaking and two dancing". There were other strange and mysterious terms. We heard it before Mrs Zaroulia, the special buyer of Golden Dawn: if possible, we are a country now hanged by tourism, as we say we are hanging by a thread, and the capital of the country, where tourism in the last five - six years has almost doubled, has an airport, while in all the countries of the world there are two and three. We have an airport ready, it is the Greek, which could work, it could be changed to the contract, but you do nothing about it, because there is the other great deal. Again, an investor only took the Greek against a soft price in too many instalments, such as those arbitrary land they once sold on the beaches of Attica, which said: "In letters, in many instalments". We have told you many times - and we are telling you again - that when the infrastructures of the Greek airport are destroyed, automatically the next day, you, here you are ruling this place, will bring bills and you will say that it is imperative to build a second airport, because our tourism cannot only have one airport and will spend billions of euros on expropriation, construction in another part of Attica or somewhere nearby. Remember that. We've told you, and unfortunately it's going to be mathematically accurate. Generally speaking, the terms of the 1995-96 Convention were tragic, as tragic are the terms of the new Convention. Again, the term ‘no other airport within 100 km’ does not come out, whereas the second airport is imperative, and various other parameters and details. Really, all of you who are talking about the liberal economy, even you SYRIZA partners who are now the most memorialists of all and the best servers of the memoranda and distributions of all kinds of "investors", would we like someone to tell us why all these "fillets" as you say in the various recitals when you bring them to the House and to the committees to be sold out, is there always only one interested person? One for the Greek, one for the ports, one for the airports, one for all. Why? We'll tell you why. As it had come out for the Greek, the interested were many, but because the game was spoken, all of the interested "blowing door" with various terminals, sticks and anything else. When he cleaned the scenery, then the formula was made, the deck for one player. The same is true of Eleftherios Venizelos airport, and the same is true of what we were discussing in a committee a little while ago about the concession and the rest of the ports. Slowly - slowly all the good ports of our country are always given to an interested party. Now, I repeat, how this is done, it's something space. The Golden Dawn was never contrary to any investments, provided they do not affect the interests of national security and vital to the nation. The Golden Dawn, however, like any sensible man, is contrary to all kinds of colonial conventions, which do not benefit the Greek public and Greek people, except those who exploit or purchase these "fillets", as you say. In 2010, when we began to dance at the memorial dance, over eight years and a half have passed, four memorials, basically, have passed our homeland, made incredible sacrifices to the Greek people, huge, we had people who ended their lives by killing, hundreds of thousands of our compatriots who emigrated abroad, millions of unemployed, and all these problems that are happening. And where did we get here? Our country's debt is about 40 billion greater than it was when you signed the first Memorandum. We promise you, when we come to things, to review all these disgraceful colonial conventions that do not serve the Greek people, the Greek state, the Greek nation and only serve the pockets of the well-known daveries who survive with all the governments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u99	Thank you. We proceed with Mr. Andreas Loverdos, Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Partnership. You have the floor, Mr. Loverdo, for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that with regard to this type of infrastructure, I do not have the best possible relationship. Last time I dealt with attention was in 2006-2007 when I was, in the opposition, a shadow Minister for Public Works and the Environment. My attempt to get into this contractual law was not easy, so I will say, as a Parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Independence, I will say it by stating, where I need it, my reservations. However, I can say without reservation, starting from the point of view of the ratification by the National Representation of this Convention, that we are dealing with a subject, a source of national wealth, a specific development tool on the one hand and, on the other, the facilitation of people's lives. Luck had brought it, and when the New Democracy government of the late Constantine Mitsotakis lost the elections in 1993, I should be a junior lawyer, a participant, in the case of the renegotiation of the airport. The lawyer I was working with, my Professor Dimitris Tsatsos, played a key role as the legal counsel of the government of Papandreou at the time. I have therefore lived through what I will tell you in the field of a negotiation by a contract drawn up by the Government of New Democracy, which the new government, Andreas Papandreou, did not accept and negotiated. I now have, in front of me, the new terms of the agreement, the first difficulties for HOCHTIEF to accept the changes and ultimately for the company to retreat. It doesn't matter where I came from, but I got it. We have differences - Mr Maniatis was, I think, very detailed - in many areas, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. My political memories have since been alive, the controversy we have had. So we have a profit for the Greek State in terms of the money, in terms of time, contract time, in terms of the contractor's prerogatives, as far as his participation is concerned. These are four central topics from the six that Mr Maniotis mentioned. These, in addition to what I said before, the airport as a development tool and as a transport infrastructure that has simplified and facilitated the lives of people, Greeks and non-Greeks. Apart from that, the important points I mentioned above constitute a permanent resource for the Greek State. I remember the government of New Democracy later, the government of Kostas Karamanlis, how he received praise for the work of the Olympic Games - all set in their hands by our government - suffering, then, a loss of new memory. Forget what he did, how he undermined this whole process. I remember all of this, but - I repeat - without being an expert to get into the issues of this contractual law and to help the National Representation. Let's go to today. We hear months ago that the renewal of the contract with the Canadian fund is a renewal of the contract, that is to say the possibility offered by Article 4(2) of the 1995 Convention, which was to renew the contract or to open a tender, is not being exploited. This is a reservation. I refer to Mr. Yannis Maniatis. I'm not sure what term is better - to be honest. There is scope and there are assessments and approaches that say that since 1 billion 200 million - how much the final price - the open competition that was free of discretion, says this approach would bring far greater benefits. They amount to two billion. It's a big difference, that is. However, because the enemy of good is the best, I record my custody. I put forward the argument, without the absolute certainty that what I am saying is right and that should have been done. I'm standing at what happened. It has been assessed - and this is a matter of control later - that this is the best method. Let's take it. Does it not concern the Members of the minority, the difference in the price from EUR 480 million to EUR 1 billion 200 million, and the way in which the difference arose? In other words, a label from the European Commission, by the Directorate-General for Competition, is not concerned? As magical as that? The differences in these hundreds of millions are a simple matter, which we will overcome? How are we gonna get through this? How can differences be justified? Why were those who were introducing and signing the contract of 480 million, but those who later accepted, proposed and signed the convention? What happened and that difference came about? How is this difference justified by those who have the legislative initiative today? Who will provide the relevant explanations? This is a matter of time and the National Representation called in plenary must ratify it in its data, and in its list of queues. How are you gonna vote? We will not vote for it, which is why we will not vote on it. How are you gonna vote? Are you convinced? Do you have any arguments? Do you guys think of practices that you're not in control, do you MPs? I'm not talking about the governors. It's your thing, anyway. Let me also give you a dimension of the subject, of what you taught us by ruling four years. Our political speech is careful. As far as I'm concerned, I don't think there's a Member in the National Representation who's been hit more than me by SYRIZA. Even for espionage you have referred me to me! However, I maintain my political dignity and try to prove, without having difficulty, that I am striving to be objective. So I say that our criticism is a critical policy, it is not accompanied by arguments that are common to philosophers. I remember a lot of philosophers from New Democracy against Andreas Papandreou, against Costas Laliotis. I remember complaints in the European Union. I remember MEPs of today's Officership playing the role of the enemy of Greece. I remember this as it is now, but we have maintained in the years that have passed to this government a political criticism, and we have suffered from both parties a philosophical political speech. Come on, ladies and gentlemen, let us take a look at ourselves, let us beam up to the next House where the majority of today's majority is minority and one, two, three, more philosophers - not us - start and wonder: why is that difference? As you did, as you did, with your double political speech the prosecutor's intervention for passive bribery is automatic. One, to make a point of suspicion in the next House - many willing in the Greek political system, the permanently polarised - and the present ministers will be in trouble. They'll be in trouble. We say, therefore, that since you put your beds together and as you put them in bed, the people say, this procedure at the National Representation gives you, not you of the parliamentary majority - minority, to the governors, a chance to testify your weapons, to say your arguments, not to hide behind what the responsibility is to do all this, because that is what we understand. I have asked several times also with other opportunities for parliamentary procedures: This contract by which Minister bears it on his back as the principal responsibility? The answers are confusing. No one is absolutely competent. Everyone's a little in charge. I am not saying that the Minister with the legislative initiative today is the one with the main political responsibility. Oh, no. I don't know, and we need to be told. In order to tell us in the context of this complex administrative action that requires negotiation, the tools, arguments, the weapons of those who led to the contract to 480 million and those who led it to the new amount must be tabled, so that we can have a picture of what happened in the recent past and what is happening in this respect. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it is not easy to come to an end in this case unless we speak cleanly. We, as Democratic Compact, are willing to hear the clear words. I agree with Mr Manatis, who has been courageously addressing this issue for months, and I expect him and the whole of our group to have clear, clear and unambiguous explanations and explanations. If you do not exist and be content with populist, supposedly, concise arguments, by closing a hasty procedure in the light of political incomprehensibility, in the sense that the world does not learn, to judge whether this is a disrepute or not, if this is not the case, the majority vote of the majority - minority - is not affecting. I say this, Mr President, and I close, on this subject, the conscientious ones who have given up the six Members, who have made a statement or a better statement, have signed the assignment of their conscience on this matter as well? A hundred and fifty colleagues, and six of them, are shareholders of this majority that supports this ratification of the convention? We will be, Mr President - and this is my last sentence - that is, happy until the end of the process, the six colleagues - who have given their consciences in such a simple way, the delegates of what the Constitution gives them as a right and a possibility that they can easily tell us exactly how they think about it and what they choose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u101	We will be making a change of Members of Parliament. Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras from the Democratic Association has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u102	Of course, Mr President, what my colleagues have said from the Democratic Independence, Mr Maniotis and Mr Loverdos, has covered me in terms of the convention, the contractual part and the objections we must raise. I would not ask for the floor, except if I had not understood a standing tactic accepted by the government, when we talk about privatization - privatization programs and price collection to serve, it is assumed that the debt - the debt is not, of course, over - and, moreover, to meet the requirements of lenders to the HSE, that it is going to transfer public assets to meet its objectives. I am now watching the way in which the so-called "investors" are paid, and I am surprised at the tolerance shown by the Greek Government in this direction, without confronting it, without seeking to serve the well-known interests of the Greek state. This story began, therefore, in the government of SYRIZA - ANEL with the signing of the ‘FRAPORT’ Convention, i.e. the fourteen regional airports, which were allocated for use. I won't say if it was a good contract or a bad one. It is now overdue, it applies. But I'll say something. Where did the money come from to pay the price? They were raised by a syndicated loan, including Alpha Bank, with an amount of EUR 284.7 million. We then proceeded to another convention, which was supposed to have been a success of the government. It was repurchased by 66% of the IPCC by a consortium comprising a Dutch, Italian and Spanish company. Who was the purchase price financed by? It was financed by the National Bank with the issue of a EUR 350 million bond.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u103	Isn't that good? Why do you say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u104	You'll hear it. Why are you interfering?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u105	I don't say it in a bad way. Is it bad that the National Bank borrowed? Because I think it is positive for the banks.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u106	For the banks, yes. But when banks don't finance the Greek economy and finance foreigners, to buy Greek assets, it's bad for me, Minister. That's how I assess it. You may have a different view.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u107	To understand the argument, only for a clarification intervened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u108	Then we have the Merchant Center in Triasio. Who financed it? The Piraeus Bank has undertaken the financing of the investment project of EUR 200 million. So today we are discussing the extension of the 'Eleftherios Venizelos' airport contract, and we say that the price, which of course had a 'loss', has been raised from low to high. Yannis Maniotis has said it, I don't have to repeat it. So we read a statement that the National Bank and the Piraeus Bank have taken on a bond loan of EUR 665 million for the contract to extend the concession, so that this part of the corresponding price can be paid. I put forward the relevant articles for the minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Georgios-Dimitrios Karras, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So, and to answer Mr Tsakalotos again, questions are being asked. Is the purpose of the blackmailing the Greek banks, who are in a vortex? Mr Drasakis questioned their capital inadequacy the other day. He said they needed recapitalization. Of course, I know the interpretation with which he said so that he could scare the borrowers to go to settle with the banks. That's the interpretation I've given. The Greek banks have suffered the suffering of three recapitalisations, in which their capital has been lost. Does anyone consider it a success for the Greek economy to finance the Spanish, the Canadians at the moment, who are the majority in the airport's capital, the Dutch, who appeared as big business colossians, the 'FRAPORT', which you told us is a successful company in the management of German airports? Why do you not receive any provision, gentlemen of the government, for this money to be made available to the Greek economy, for the support of the small and medium-sized enterprises, for the investment of the Greeks so that jobs can be created and not just? Not only will there be tax revenues for the public, but the multiplication of money in this case will increase through consumption, tax will be paid, jobs, growth. Do you know what we're doing now? This money is being directed abroad. They leave the Greek financial system immediately. He's waiting for the bank to get a interest, because it's a full-time debt of ten-15 years. With Greek money - because in the banks' funds, I must remind you that it is all the 26 billion of the last recapitalisation in 2015, which at some point have been depleted, it is very little - we are making foreigners richer at our expense. We'll have to make the Greeks sometime rich and not the strangers! [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] This tactic must be stopped. Any other convention - and I consider it at least my personal commitment to vote or defend it - to come on a condition that the investor has brought with him a letter of guarantee from a foreign bank, which ensures that the price is paid, not that Greek money, which you deprive of from the Greek economy, continue to be made available for these resources, so that the government can take the evaluation. No, gentlemen! I think this story should be over. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Mr Vassilis Kegeroglu, Member of the Democratic Association, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, it is an opportunity today to point out that the progress made in the transformation into our country was very great, measurable and undeniable, despite the concerted effort from various aspects to distort and falsify history. At the same time, of course, it is a reality and the crisis and the loss of opportunities. It is crucial, however, and useful for the present and the future, that we have self-awareness of the policies to achieve progress, but also of the causes of the crisis and of the backwards. The debate on the concession of "Eleftherios Venizelos" gives us the opportunity to highlight the choices of PASOK, Democratic Partnership, for the international airport and the way in which national wealth can be created and ensure the public interest. I would remind you that the convention signed in 1993, without having been ratified by the New Democracy and the Mitsotakis Government, was a colonial-style contract which gave huge economic benefits and privileges to HOCHTIEF. After the 1993 elections, the government of Andreas Papandreou, with the choice of the subsequent renegotiation, created a national-popular source of production and was owed historically, politically and morally. For all this, the SYRIZA rapporteur has said something today, rather as an apology, since his party and Mr. Tsipras personally even today repeat the lies of the century. They say that it was supposed to be the Transmigration, starred by the PASOK, that destroyed Greece. I repeat that Migration is the best period of Greek history, despite mistakes, omissions and inability to deal with international crises and the derailments that some have brought.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u111	Tsukatos told you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u112	The Government of SYRIZA - ANEL and Mr Tsipras, instead of exemplifying and exploiting the possibility of maximising the public benefit, as did the PASOK Government you praised today, Mr Athanasios, why does it choose to identify with other options and to divest at a price of opportunity a great advantage for Greece, which has enormous value and added value? The SYRIZA - ANEL today fully copy the New Democracy's logic, even enriching it with the insanity of the excess. That is why both SYRIZA and New Democracy say 'yes' to the convention. They're matched. Today, Greece has the opportunity to make use of Athens International Airport, because 1993 changed the contract and, instead of ending in 2046, the renegotiation in 1993, which was signed in 1995, expires in 2026. That's what we're talking about. Otherwise, we wouldn't talk. With the New Democracy Convention, the consortium with the same sum of EUR 180 million would have a 60% share, while the PASOK Convention remained at 45%. And of course, as I said, instead of fifty years of co-existence, it has been set up for thirty years. The contract also provided that thirty-six thousand acres which were - and are - around the airport would have been for ninety years with many privileges in the consortium. This has changed and taken place as long as the contract, without privileges and rights. The contract, as signed in 1995, ensured that at the same construction cost we would have significant additional work, significant improvements, which were carried out and applied by the Greek rules instead of others, lighter. Often, the German rules are heavier in some areas. As far as anti-Semitism is concerned, however, for example, the Greek Anti-Semitism Regulation is heavier and they had then chosen the German regulation. I'm telling you, to understand. The other advantages of the 1995 Convention and of representation and of the number of persons were discussed. Finally, the measurable benefit of this renegotiation, with an independent scholar, was recorded at EUR 100 billion, but without that alone. The general benefit to the Greek economy and the prospect was the great difference. In 2011, because there was also a hint here, by the PASOK government was set up as a ceiling for the 20 years, and the assessment at that time, as the SYRIZA rapporteur said, concerned the amount corresponding to the percentage of HIAD and the then 2011 figures. However, things came in such a way that this assessment was not carried out and the procedure did not go ahead, because it simply shouldn't have gone ahead, since we had a period of five to fifteen years before us. However, Mr SYRIZA - ANEL, who created the superstition for ninety-nine years - ninety and Mitsotakis granted the concession - and to which they also granted 25% of public participation at the airport. In 2017, the decision of the SYRIZA Ministers for 484 million euros came up and the European Commission's process brought it up to about one billion euros. We have neither the data available to us nor the critical rules and indicators on which this figure came out. We appreciate, on the basis of our knowledge of the evidence, that by the same negotiation process, namely, for expansion, the country's benefit could reach, touch up to all 2 billion euros. And that's what we're haunting. However, in any case, what he had to do - and he must do and can - now the government is to stop the process and proceed to an open international public tender. This would really launch the benefits to a multiple degree. It is not possible for the government to come, without the information we have requested in committee - and that Mr Balaur did not hear it - without any critical factors which have to do with the assumptions that the European Commission has taken into account to calculate the price, and to ask us to ratify the contract. These are elements that are necessary for any debate. The most crucial thing is that you should tell us about revenue and profitability and the discount rate that was finally adopted. These are critical factors that lead to conclusions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Tell us the other one. Is it true, as has been written in the press, that the European Commission has proposed an open international competition, contrary to what you have done? Is it true, yes or no? Bring all the information here so that the Greek Parliament can proceed transparently. We are voting against this proposal, which in future will be the subject of real evaluation and examination, to see how Greece is losing another opportunity that we had created since 1995, how it is ridding out a wealthy source, which can give the country new wealth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u114	Mr President, I beg your pardon for the interruption. My name has been reported ten times. Can I just have the floor for a minute, because I said something that has been sort of pulled?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u115	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u116	I have said what I said and, indeed, I have titrated it under the hard title: 'The revenge of history'. In fact, the 1995 Convention brought two major beneficial changes and I mentioned them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u117	Six changes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u118	I only mentioned the two. There's a list. There was a debate in Parliament in 1995. There is a whole list that compares the two contracts.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u119	Don't have a dialogue. Say what you want to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u120	I mean the following. Everything I said and it's recorded. One might add, provided that what our interlocutor says is at least put it in introductorys, respect it and not embody it or expand it. Mr President, I believe that history will be avenged again. And I asked for thirty seconds. I'll add a word. The story has already begun to avenge. How does he get back? I shall only say this in one sentence: 'Sarlruhe'. Look, valuation issues between the European Commission and other airports have arisen. I refer here to the Sarlrois airport in Belgium. In fact, the case was brought to the Court of Justice there, which, after recognising errors in some of the assumptions of the European Commission, found that the Belgian airport had to be aligned with the Commission's observations. You are doing so in the Competition Committee - with the large PPPs - from the outset, so that we can finally speak with arguments. In my dentistry, I have several clarifications to make.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u121	Mr Koutsoukos, Member of the Democratic Alliance, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. I believe that our rapporteur, our parliamentary representative, Mr Karras and Mr Kegeroglu, who preceded them, have documented our view of the small and large scandal. And I will refer to the short time that I have what's the little one and what's the big one. I, however, wanted introductory terms, ladies and gentlemen, to highlight two different approaches, two different strategies, two major political differences in how public wealth is created and how it is exploited. I have heard Mr Janakopoulos earlier that we have found them with the New Democracy for the President. I have heard the suggestion made by the Minister that we are sliding behind the New Democracy. I'm listening to the punks! But here, in practice, we will be measured. So Mr Athanasios said - in his honour - about the 1995 renegotiation. What was '95, ladies and gentlemen? It was the effort of a government of the patriotic PASOK by Andreas Papandreou and Kostas Laliotis to regain the public property, which had been awarded by the anointed Constantine Mitsotakis by a colonial contract. I remind you it was the time of Balkan bachelorism. The mobile telephony was assigned. He had been banned from participating in mobile telephony. I don't want to say any more. They're familiar. And there was a great success. I didn't know Mr. Loverdos had participated in this negotiation, but I have it printed on paper. What does it say that this negotiation of the creation of national wealth and property has succeeded? It succeeded in changing the contractual time from fifty years to thirty years. That's obviously money. And he managed to change the public's participation, which now became majority. It is not a small percentage of the participation that has changed. That doesn't matter. It is important that it has become majority. And what did he still do? To change the participation of the board of directors with a decisive role for the Greek State. Ladies and gentlemen, this means that by minority 6-3 we have gone to 4-4 and there is a common acceptance. This is the composition that currently exists at the Board of Directors of the Athens International Airport. The government of SYRIZA has designated it. He's Mr. Dimitrios Dimitrios as President. They are the representatives of the Government, Mr Charalambos Pamboukis, Spyridon Papaconstantinou, Panagiotis Pavlopoulos, Nikolaos Protonotarios. And there are other honourable Members, but my Germans are not well and I will confuse you. They are the investors' representatives. And the government of SYRIZA, which accused us of being 'Germans' and 'pools', had in its hands a contract that enabled it to be made effective, profitable, renegotiating, exploiting the comparative advantages of the contract. The contract said that I was able, if we do not like the offer, to reject it and to go to an international competition. He didn't. And here's the little scandal. The small scandal, ladies and gentlemen, is estimated at 683 million. Do you understand what size class we're talking about, how much is that? It's the whole C.E.S.A. and more, since C.E.S.A. is 450 million. Here for 20 million we tortured the wine growers' industry with the wine tax! Do you understand the size class? Why did this money go missing? Why have the willings of the Ministerial Council who are involved in the committee concerned, namely Mr Papadimitriou, who welcomed us - Mrs Ahtsioglou, Mr Stathakis and Mr Spirtz - who is weeping, accepting a recommendation from HIDE, for which we have asked for the documentation and you are not giving us any documentation? Is it accidental, ladies and gentlemen, that the chairman of the committee, Mr Balaurras, with your support and the government, has refused our proposal that the bodies should come here? Who are the agencies? The HICP and the airport administration. So tell us what their estimates for the 480 million were. And is it accidental that we have a parallel meeting scheduled for two hours for the press'spray, wipe and finish'? So this is the little scandal. And the Competition Committee - which you had to send, because it controls State aid - came to you, and it says: 'Hey, you guys!' and determine a price that is marketable. The Committee on Competition of the European Union did not consider whether we could get more. And we want the letters. We need the mail. Let me tell you something. Because it's too much evil. There have been unanswered parliamentary questions concerning the public interest, such as the transfer of ten thousand tens of tens of tens of tens of property, for six months. What do we have to do? Should we go to the prosecutor's office and ask for documents? Where, in other words, are you, with your responsibility, the majority, the President of Parliament and your Government? Why don't you bring the relevant documents to the House, check them out, confrontation and say that 'yes, you guys are right' or, in any case, that we would achieve something better? Why are you hiding them? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. So the Competition Committee has come and forced you to accept a much higher price than EUR 1.115 000. But the great scandal, ladies and gentlemen, is something to do with this. Mr. Maniotis referred to the profits before taxes, interest and depreciation, the famous EBITDA. It's 250 million. Do you know how much this profitability will be achieved in three years, in 2022, when the repayment of the loans is completed? Have you figured it out? And what could then be the price? In other words, time, in this case, is money. And why the rush to shut it down then? And finally, ladies and gentlemen, what prompted you to get the remaining 25% of the shares that had not been allocated to the public HIADE and to take it to Mr Le Pappe's superstate? What prompted you? And how much will the remaining property now be assigned when the price has been booked for the next twenty years? Are investors suckers? Unless you've delivered this too. I don't know what secret papers are and I'm not talking about the ones Mr. Loverdos referred to. It's not our lineup to them. Mr. Laliotis escaped the special court because the right-wing party was then overshadowed with articles, and Mr. Reds referred him to him and was exempted by a decision of the Board of Appeal, or - I don't know - first of all. It's not us. But think that with what you do how much you can find it in front of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u123	Complete your thoughts, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u124	I shall conclude, Mr President. But what I care about is that this is where two strategies conflict:. How you create national wealth and use it to strengthen the social security system and not the Canadian pensioners - because the fund is Canadian pensioners - and how you reduce public debt through it. Five billion, we could proactively have a discount rate. How much is it on public debt? Mr. Chakalotos will tell us. Thank you, Mr President, for your little tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u125	Mr Eukleidis Tsakalotos has the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, I regret the tone of some speakers today. I don't understand him. I tried to explain myself to the committee. I'll try again to explain how we understand things. I am going to submit to the minutes on what you have asked for - I do not think I have omitted anything - that is, the text of the Court of Auditors, the DG - COM press release - that is, the Competition Directorate, which will at some point make its decision, is like the courts that come out of a decision and then the DG GROWTH document, which discusses an extension or a new arrangement, and the TDIDE document on the price analysis. All I can tell you is that the fourth, which I want it to be in the archives of the House's Stenography and Practices Directorate, is the fourth, but I do not want it to be in the Minutes. Be at the disposal of the parties' representatives, but don't go around everywhere and you understand that. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister, Euklidis Tsakalotos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We now go to the basic arguments we have, to see what we can say and what is not. I have heard surreal arguments to which I will not give a basis, such as that it is a shame that the National Bank has financed the project. I must tell you that this was a great success of the National Bank and why it financed it and showed that the Greek financial system is much stronger than it is said and why this investment showed how much better the Greek economy has gone, to which I will return. I have not yet understood the argument, which seems to me even more surreal, that it was an excellent '95 contract, and we are expanding and in a way now it is a mess. The main argument, which is totally surreal, is that our scandal has a sign minus 600 million. I want you to look at all the scandals over the past twenty years, whether those in the courts and in the courts that have finished or those in the courts now and are being discussed, and you will notice that the amount discussed is not but plus. Scandal is usually when you damage your country. You will see that we have increased 600 million from the beginning. Fourth surreal argument. We have a PASOK government, before Mr Papademou's Ecumenical Ecumenical government, which passes a bill for TEAD. She decides on the law on the HIAD, she decides why the HIAD is responsible. We were against this law - I'm still against and I think it's the law of creditors for the TV and much worse, which I'll explain from the superstition - which says the responsibility for all the assets within the GIDE is the responsibility of the GIDE. What exactly are you telling me? That when you did this law, at the same time, you had to build a new agency, an office, an address at the Ministry of Finance, double-check the job? That's it? Or was it your idea that, all right, we told the institutions that there was a stupid thing about TV and that the Minister would not intervene, but would the Minister actually do so? I don't understand what you're saying. I understand that you gave the HIAD, you did the bill, you gave it the responsibility for concessions and privatisations at the HIAD, and he did his job. Good or bad is an independent authority. You did not make an article in the law that says "for the work of HIDED, we will build an organization that will retrospectively control it if they do so", because then we would have non-independence of HIDED. That's what I understand. Nor did you put what we put at the supreme, that any privatization of major projects should take the Minister's approval. There isn't. So it's your law, you put it, you don't like it, and these are the results. We - and you are not right - have gone to European courts on competition law and State aid in many cases. Why were we paying fines? Because the contracts didn't go in advance. That is why we pay on various occasions and have paid and finished and merged afterwards. Because your governments went through the contract here and then went, but you didn't have the Ok, and that's why they became European courts. That is why we had the independent authority which is the ICTP, and then we said that to be sure, to look at competition law and what is the fair price, we will go to DG - COM. And DG - COM, the Competition Directorate, will tell us what the right price is if there was State aid. DG - COM said there was state aid. Mr Maniotis asks - and I am not sure whether Mr Koutsoukos and Mr Vlachos were - why there was this great price deviation. I replied to the committee. It was because we were changed. They're changing the data. This was the main element in addition to the provision for tourism. As you can imagine - not only you but all the Greek people - the economy goes better with the government of SYRIZA than the previous ones. And there was a change in prediction. But the most important thing - because we have two different views - is what we put as the discount rate, which depends on various things, such as the company's risk, what the state has the same risk, the Sovereign risk, what the 10-year bond has. Well, he's got some things on which you're making a interest rate, so you can see if it's charismatic, change, contract, or it's not. And since DG - COM has very high confidence and appreciation to the Greek Government, it has obviously decided that the interest rate they had used at the GOI was very large, that the risk of the company has decreased, that the state risk, the Sovereign risk, has decreased 10 years, so we cannot use the same interest rate. They also stuck the forecasts for tourism and came out of this result. I told you I didn't hear anyone mention it. You say you're here to hear any arguments about this scandal. I told you what it is and you ask me, and why is there a discrepancy? I'm saying the difference in committee. I wonder why we do the committees if we don't have a dialogue. I say something to the committee, you say something to the committee, we say the same thing again. So the scandal is one, that is, on our own initiative, before the DG - COM came to Parliament, with this we increased plus 600 million, that the reason why this was because the conditions in the Greek economy have improved and something else I will return to. I shall now refer to a few things that he said that Mr Vlachos and what Mr Tragakis said in committee and I did not have the opportunity to answer it, about the Greek and how much it should go to 10%. Let's talk about this if I'm well aware of it. My lawyers say that there was indeed this prediction in '95 and indeed there was provision for an entity implementing this 10%. That's the governments after '95 didn't do it. This body was never built. That's how I understand and we can talk about it then and see it. Afterwards, when the sale took place in 2012, it unblocked the previous law. So he's gone. It was not something that happened to our government in 2015. The game has been lost since 2012. Mr Vlao, there will obviously be a debate there if the extension or the open competition were better. I can tell you arguments both in favour and against, it is not what the British rocket science say. It is, in other words, a question of discussing it, and it does not come out of a number that says that it is better than one another. After being decided by the TIAD - on Venizelos, with the second government, not the first to become the TIAD - the extension to be in the TIAD, as 30%, the TIAD takes a decision in favour of expansion rather than concession and, as you can see, the main conditions could not be changed within the extension. That's the problem. And I'm going to the last question. I would like to check if you mean exactly what Mr Tragakis meant, which says 'in any case that's the case'. I was asked by Mr Tragakis what he means 'in any case'? You put it differently. Did you say, anyway, "What do we have"? I think you're asking the same question. Let me tell you the answer, and then you tell me if it is really or isn't. If, after the entry into force of the contract and after payment of the price, the contract is cancelled for some reason until 11 June 2026, then we have to pay back the price. It makes sense because there will no longer be a contract for the period 2026-2046. This provision shall apply in any case of cancellation. Before 11 June 2026, no matter why there is cancellation of the contract. This is not about breaching the original contract by the company, but only cancellation of the extension, for example by a court. This is clearly seen in Article 4.4. If the company violates terms of the original contract, the terms and conditions of the original contract obviously apply. That is what Mr Tragakis asked me, and I think that's what you said at the end, when you asked what responsibility the Greek State has. Isn't that what you said? Ladies and gentlemen, since I have convinced you that I find it difficult to understand why plus 600 million is one of the biggest scandals since the beginning of the Western world, since history began, I would like to tell you what this convention marks and how important it is. I still don't understand what Mr. Karras meant, who said they were going to win Canadian pension funds. We also had a debate, if Mrs Manolakou remembers, in committee. It's a vote of confidence in the Greek economy. And, because I have the habit of telling you the good news in the economy, only since the previous time I have spoken - every time I tell you this - I want to finish with it, to have the same picture of the economy and where it goes, despite everything you say. The good news, therefore, since I spoke in plenary last time, first of all, has been to do with unemployment. The seasonally corrected unemployment rate of November 2018 was 18.5% compared to 21.1% in November 2017, a 2.6% reduction. In other words, in November 2014, just before we took over, the country had one million two hundred and thirty thousand unemployed. In recent November - because we have no evidence beyond November - it had eight hundred thousand and still falling. There are still many, but there is a 29% reduction. Let's go to development. The Commission is reviewing the forecasts for GDP in Greece for the previous November. GDP is estimated to have developed at 2% in 2018, to increase in 2019 to 2.2% and 2020 to 2.3%. At the same time it reviews the forecasts for the euro area downwards. According to the committee's latest forecasts, Eurozone GDP will increase 1.3% compared to 1.9% of the year and 1.6% in 2020 instead of 1.7%. In other words, not only are we expected to have more growth than the Eurozone average, but forecasts for us are improved, while for the rest of the euro area they are getting worse. The Commission gives Greece a positive development in exporting and private consumption, which has been favoured by a significant increase in employment. Mr. Mitsotakis at "ECONOMIST" last month said: "Greece has not returned a page and as market confidence has not been restored, competitiveness declines, the quality of the institutions of governance has declined, and the economy has experienced anemic growth rate below estimates." Since then, we have been on the market and growth rates have been improving. Mr Stavros said a year and a half ago: 'At the same time as Europe is speeding up, our country is backing up. It is quite clear that the country needs another economic policy." To tell me, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, now that the opposite is true of what Mr Stakoras said a year and a half ago, does he think that we have changed economic policy or that all of Europe should follow SYRIZA's policy? Know that your words of destruction are measured, recorded and come back. This disaster does not help you when you said we were worse than all over Europe, and the Commission is reducing us and everyone else is increasing. Now that it increases us and reduces everyone else and we have a higher average in Europe, what are you going to say? Destroy again? I have other things to tell you, about where this development is based and the information provided by the Pan-Hellenic Export Association, speaking of a new historic export record in 2018. I have again the PMI that, as I have told you many times, is the element that shows whether the industry will grow or shrink, which was very positive. And I'm ending with building activity. According to ELSTAT, the total building activity of the tenth month of January - November shows an increase of 11.9% in the number of building permits, by 23.6% on the surface and by 21.3% on the volume, compared to the corresponding tenth month of 2017. And, I repeat, these elements are only relative to the last time I see you. Every time I see you, I tell you new positive economic evidence. And that's why it's good that a pension fund comes and invests in Greece, because it shows that...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u127	It was 2013.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u128	He's got more money, Mr. Maniot.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u129	Samarro - Venizelos brought it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u130	Mr. Maniatis, I think you should interrupt when you have a point of order. So I'm not expecting any interruption in the next ten years! It is therefore very clear to everyone that foreign investors and investors we want to attract, which have a long-term horizon, are ready to invest in Greece. They've finished all the elements of your account that we won't get out of the memorandum, that we won't get out of the market, that we won't have growth, that we won't have investments. I think it's the English expression 'back to the dreaming board', go back, go back to Piraeus and redesign something that looks like a strategy and a political and economic one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr. Euklidis Tsakalotos. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I have the honour of announcing to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament on 23-11-2018 a criminal case law concerning the Member and former Minister of National Defence Panagiotis Kammenos. Also, pursuant to Rule 76 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, MP Mr Panagiotis (Northern) Metarakis asks for a short-day leave to go abroad on Friday 22 February 2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u132	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We shall proceed with the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr Nikolao Teddy. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if I may - I will not go far - but the reference to the conventions in the early 1990s and after the end of the 1994 government's attempt to change the terms has many readings. I haven't studied them, Mr. Loverdos, I wasn't even a Member, I hadn't even dealt with politics at the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u134	I wasn't a MP at the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u135	I have to say, however, that I remember that a very large dialogue had taken place and, finally, a reduction in time resulted in an increase in the cost of using the "Eleftherios Venizelos" airport, which, if I may say so, prejudicial to you and its course. Please look at the wider framework of the Southeast Mediterranean. In the same time, next to us, the Kemal Ataturk airport was a provincial airport which, however, became a pole of attraction, making Turkey one of the largest airports worldwide and creating a new airport. On the other hand, "Eleftherios Venizelos", despite its increased movement, remains a tourist airport without transatlantic flights and was therefore deprived of Greece and other possibilities. That is why I would ask you to be so unsatisfactory that the 1994 government choices should not be so unilateral as against the governments of the late Constantine Mitsotakis. In any case, because it was also presented as a sanctuation of the state sector against the choices of privatisation at the time of the Mitsotakis government, you will allow me to tell you that the Mitsotakis government then attempted a huge reorganisation in criminal situations, in various public bodies - not to talk now, because someone referred to OTE - and the result of the resolution effort was the fall of the Mitsotakis government. I now come to the subject of this Convention. Minister, I must tell you very sincerely that I will turn into an absolute admirer of yours. Honestly I tell you if you have a small fan club or big fan club, send me my application, I will register and I will glorify you. Because for thirty years in the law and a very long time I have to tell you to the fighting lawyer, to the audiences - I have in my law office three and a half thousand procedural files, which I have tried first and foremost and to second-gues some and to the supreme court - such an approach to covering the reality of a contract like that, which the Minister of Finance has attempted, I have sincerely never seen and, indeed, to address people who have the contract in front of them and have at least been on the pretext of having read it. It completely altered reality. He talked about other issues, about another reality metaphysics. I'll start with the minors so I can get to the big one. The'minor', which is not at all a minor, is Article 4 to which I shall refer. The Minister referred to Article 4 of the Convention, which requested explanations. I'm going to 4.1, first. What does 4.1 say? It says something that it presented as very reasonable: If, before 11 June 2026, this Convention becomes void or inapplicable, the Greek State will immediately have to pay the company an amount equal to the price. What's insane about that? If it becomes invalid, shouldn't we return it? But be careful about this. It does not only say void, it says for any reason, so for the concessionaire. If this contract, Mr Minister, is invalid for reasons relating to the concessionaire, then the Greek State must pay him the money and has no right to compensation, and this is a well formulated contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u136	The extension contract, you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u137	Yes, sir. I'm talking about the extension contract. That's the one I got in front of me. But that's what we're talking about today. I'm going to 4.2.b. What's he saying? ‘Since the termination of the contract takes place in accordance with Article...’, etc. Why are they attributed to where, ladies and gentlemen? Financial institutions. It's outside the control of the Airport Company, which will have done everything possible. What's he saying here? It says before - so as not to trouble you too much - that the Airport Company will get a loan. A loan from the Airport Company. If, then, it says here, in 4.2.b, the loan from the financial institutions is not given, then it is a very good complaint, the company welcomes us, good morning! Where and up to where does the Greek State and the Greek taxpayer take responsibility for the concessionaire's borrowing capacity? Have you ever seen any such contract in your life, at any time, anywhere on this planet? Where and where? All of this - I beg your pardon - if we called it 'colonial', would it be a bad designation or a lenient designation? That's not the worst. Let's go to the worst now. Ladies and gentlemen, I want us to be honest with each other, to say things like they are, without fanaticism, without insulting, without qualification, but as they are. That is why I am not counting on you to be responsible. The Minister presented us with a situation. Named the GOI as an independent authority. So the HICP, according to the Minister of State, negotiated a contract, and against this contract, a price of EUR 480 million was accepted. Right? That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u138	Subject 2, provided that...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u139	I'll come to Subject 2. Is the S.H.I.E.L.D. first independent authority? And if it were an independent authority, it would still not be deprived of its obligations under ordinary law, honest management, management according to commercial customs, of diligent management. It would not be unsuccessful. Is that an independent authority? Who defines, ladies and gentlemen, the Board of Directors of the HICP? The shareholder. Who's the shareholder? The superstition. Who's the shareholder of the surplus fund? The Greek state. Who is the representative of the Greek state? Who represents the shareholder? The Minister of Finance, our right. The Minister of Finance, however, says: "I? What are you talking about? Independent authority. I have no idea." Where did these things come from, ladies and gentlemen? Tell us to understand. Where was the Minister of Finance heard dismissing the shareholder's responsibilities, namely the Greek taxpayer, whom he himself represents? So the TIAD comes in and brings him a contract of 480 million and says: 'My Minister, we have tried, we have fought, that's what we have been able'. Imagine for these numbers any business, any organization on the planet. The simple question 'how did you come up with this price' would be formulated or not? Why not 310 or 1.020 or 422 or 750? Why? What's that logic? It has already been mentioned by a colleague from another party. Does EBITDA's logic regarding the acquisition of businesses escape anyone in this Chamber? Minister, have you ever seen an operation selling double EBITDA, with EBITDA two years old? Have you ever seen it in your life? I'm really talking to you. Is that a debtd operation? What's here? With what logic? To be practical, ladies and gentlemen, what is EBITDA? It's that with what a business takes off, it has to start paying interest, etc., its cash-flows to what it makes, learnings before internet, taxis and amortisation. Right? That's right. I'm speaking English too so the Minister can check on me, too, who knows that. So what he's getting at the airport with 480 million, he's taking it out in two years. Tell me honestly something. The Minister of Finance sees this thing. He obviously knows the results. Does the convention have to go to Brussels to tell him that something is not going very well here? Does this thing have to happen? Explain to me to understand. Shouldn't he call them and tell them "out here" right away? Not to tell you what has been said - and to discuss it - about matters relating to another area of justice, because what we are going to ratify here is one billion and one billion. The 480 million stays there as an attempt. We must be aware of this because when we look at it again tomorrow, do not say that there was no clear warning about what we are voting on. To God, it's not about you. I say this to be informed, but the 480 remain as an attempt. We are told by the Minister: 'We have sent it.' They didn't send it. He's not telling the truth. What I keep here is the 2017 Newspaper Leaf of the Government, the Interministerial Committee on Reform and Removal. If the Minister were to expect the DG - COM to change that, why did he go through it, ladies and gentlemen? In fact, I read you on the second page: 'It may be necessary'. It does not say 'we are sending to control'. It says: 'It may have to be approved by the committee'. Who's the committee here? It is the Directorate-General for Competition of the European Union in the abbreviations.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u140	Is this not a cult of the Competition Committee? Isn't that 3 mentioning "with the cult"? Please, do you read 3?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u141	Dear, Mr. Comrade, no. Excuse me, it's my job, but I'm telling you. I don't call it parliamentary, to create impressions. That wording does not constitute a cult. It suggests a possibility and directly suggests that this will only be done if we are forced and obviously also suggest that the government has no mood for this, unless it comes up. Here, ladies and gentlemen, all this has been done, and let us assume that it has become a mistake. The decision comes after one billion and the concessionaire accepts it, because that is where the scandal occurs. If the DG - COM decision and its concessionaire were to come, she said, "I beg your pardon very, very good day, I leave in 2026 and go elsewhere", one billion million so many million and the concessionaire sees it accepted. The one who had agreed to 480 million, after a few weeks accepts 700 billion more without any objections and the Minister of Finance does not dismiss the administration of the GOI.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u142	You don't know if he has any objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u143	It does not put it in a file where it needs to be sent, but it comes here and tells us that the financial data have changed and that the government also has responsibility, because that government, which says that the situation is constantly improving and things are going better, is obviously well aware of the improvement of the data. Isn't that right, Minister? You don't come to fool us, tell us things are gonna get better. You're telling us the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u144	You know that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u145	So since you who think things are going better, do you believe it, then why did you go and say that this contract is going to happen? And if he tried to make her void, why didn't you stop it? If he conspired it at an illegal and irrational price, why didn't you take them and why didn't you ask for their dismissal? Where's the logical order of what you're doing and coming here and suggesting to us? We, New Democracy, will not fall into the trap. I tell you quite clearly, because we believe in privatisation, we believe that there should be entrepreneurs, we believe there should be investment. We understand the huge damage that the national economy would have had if we were to send it back, saying 'because of the scandalous past situation, we do not do so', so we are voting for it, but we do not vote for what you have done, which I have analysed one - one to be in the Minutes, so that the positions of the New Democracy, Mr Minister, can be clear to you, ladies and gentlemen. These things aren't right. The S.H.I.E.L.D. had sinful days and it's obvious. Don't accept it without question. Do not accept the reasonable but deeply irrational explanations of the Minister of Finance at the same time. There's nothing left of this whole story. Minister, I honestly tell you that I would be very happy if, when you left the Chamber, you did what the shareholder or whoever represents the shareholder and the Greek citizen, the Greek taxpayer, has the moral obligation to do, when he sees these things. Because here we have pressed society - I say 'we have', although we do not participate in the government majority, but our society sees us as the political order - as a point of agony survival. Anyone can't give 700 million of the Greek taxpayer's laxity in any way and with no excuse, ladies and gentlemen. As was well said before, it is multiple of ESSAS, it is 30% of ENVY and, in any case, dozens of businesses, too many Greek citizens, too many families have wept bitterly for far less than that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u146	Thank you to the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Nikos Dendias.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u147	Mr President, just give me a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u148	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u149	The only argument I understand is for the first thing you said. It's the first topic for Article 4. That is exactly what you say and that is a real question, because we have an agreement. I help you in economics and in English and you help me in legal and Greek.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u150	We don't understand it very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u151	That's why I'm saying it, or I wouldn't need any help. The company had a deal with the banks to get the loan. If he didn't have that loan, the company would say 'we won't be able to continue', so then we'd have a new arrangement, I guess, new proposal for that. That's it, that's it. But because, despite what your papers say and you think the banks are going very well, we knew that...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u152	Mr. Drasakis said that, not us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u153	Come on, okay!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u154	Anyway. I'm serious. That was a real question. I mean, what I didn't understand was why that was a problem. Obviously, if the company does not have the funding or financing, the agreement cannot continue. That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u155	Mr. President, do I have your permission?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u156	Here, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u157	Minister, I accept that you do not understand this, although I honestly tell you that I think you are well aware of what I will tell you right after. As formulated in the article, it moves the risk of funding to the Greek public. Actually, do you know what you're doing here? You award the contract with a tool and allow the concessionaire to find the funding without any risk. What you're doing here doesn't exist. Please show me another contract, any contract on this planet, which the financial risk, the risk of borrowing does not go to the borrower, but pass directly to his counterparty, so that he can, if he does not find the loan, without any damage to the contract, without any criminal clause, without anything. Excuse me, but are you bringing me a world-wide contract that exists? Can you bring me one and we're discussing it, from the top, "does it cancel for any reason"? I'm saying this to get in touch with. You should bring me another contract in which there is for any reason nullity, so it is for the same one in favour of it. I'm telling you, excuse me, but if I was a lawyer on a personal level, your personal property, and I brought you this contract, would you keep me or would you go to another farm?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u158	Let's move on, please. Mr. Voridis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you must give us an explanation of what has been said, because the explanations so far, let me read in the communication and what I have heard so far - are very satisfactory to nothing at all. It's disappointing. When there is a 484 million-dollar negotiation, and then there is already one result, because it is a given result, after the committee, which says 1,115 billion-dollar, the one who has been negotiated for you, who has obviously brought you the 484 million-dollar job, has obviously done a terriblely bad job, because he has not been able to bring what came right after 1,115 billion-dollars. You're giving an explanation here and you're talking about the TIAD. This divergence of 700 million is an incredible discrepancy. It is not, that it was negotiated on your behalf, it brought 484 million, then a new debate took place and we went to 520 million. They're other than others. The question is this. I am not going to enter the debate of the dome, of the possible negligence, of the damage, of the criminal debate, in two words. I don't think it's over here. Should we discuss administrative responsibility? These people, who have brought this result, with whatever thought, say they have taken into account the 2015 figures, but have not taken into account the rapid development of tourism or the positive prospects for GDP growth. Good. Obviously the others received them and brought a result, which was to pay 1,1 billion, he said, "I'm fine with the 1,1 billion as well."
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u160	It's not fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u161	Listen. He did not end up rejecting it, saying "it is an unfavourable solution for me and I do not." He ended up saying "it's a profitable solution for me and I pay it". The other was to give us 485 million. These people who negotiated this thing what has happened to you so far? What's happened to them?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u162	They fade like this...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u163	I like to see you treating it as humorous, but be careful, Mr. Manda, this. Here, the representative of the interests of the Greek State, the exploitation of private property, has resulted in appalling damage. Responsibility? I have not said any more criminal responsibility. I'm leaving this conversation. This is another debate at another time. Is there administrative responsibility? If it was your lawyer who was negotiating this for your property, and one lawyer brought you 480 million and went to another and brought you 1.1 billion, what would you think of the first? A lot would pass through your mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u164	The Court of Auditors has rightly said about 480 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u165	I'm coming to second. Do you see these contracts at all? Because listen. What my colleague, Mr. Dendias, has pointed out to you, I will tell you even more simply in Greek and in law. Point 3.8: When can this contract be terminated if the Airport Company's loan is not concluded or the relevant financing is not available to the company? It's what you said: "But if he didn't get a loan, what people would do. Would they not have the right to terminate the contract?’ That's right. They'd be entitled to denounce the contract. Why? Because they didn't get the loan. Yes, sir. Article 4. If, before 11 June 2026, the Convention becomes void for any reason to a substantial extent or becomes inapplicable, I ask, at any time - 4.1 I read - to be informed, from now on, 2026 - so that they are in, work, earn from now on, to some point of time, finding the invalidity of the convention - or that, for any reason - you are right to point out - even for reasons of the same, I say, they are poor - because they have been bankrupt, because they have done a bad job - what is going to happen in this case? Or it'll become inapplicable, he says now...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u166	I'm sorry, isn't that the contract term, not the extension? Then we'll go, if that's what you said...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u167	I don't know. This Convention, if it becomes invalid for any reason or becomes inappropriate, I say again, for whatever reason - here is this Convention, namely extension - the Greek State must immediately pay an amount equal to the price, i.e. all the price. So, they've worked from today, they're running the contract, they're making money, at some point, there's a cancellation event, they're not gonna give you the rest, you're gonna give them the whole amount back. So you've been put on this deal. Watch out. And so that there is no doubt as to what will happen - I am now at 4.2, that is to say, the Convention makes it quite clear what we have here - if the termination of the contract takes place, in accordance with Article 3.8d2, on the loan, for reasons which are attributed to the financial institutions and which are out of control of the company. Not that it was the Greek public's fault. Not that it's the TIAD's fault. For whatever reason, financial institutions come in and say 'we do not finance'. And because the financial institutions don't fund, you'll pay back all the price. Uh, now this contract you saw and you agreed with it? If, in other words, we do not have literally letonite terms, completely unilateral, to the limits of abusiveness, perhaps directly abusive, what are we talking about? And this is the contract which we are now presenting in such a way that it is comfortable and nice and we say: 'What is good'? It's a very bad deal. It's a fighter agreement. It's a deal that shouldn't have been made. And be careful, because the argument here is always 'but if we didn't do it, they would leave and we would have to reconvene the competition from the beginning', it seems that they are not so determined to leave. Looks like they're determined to stay if I'm judging that out of 480 they were ready to pay 700 more. I mean, you'd easily negotiate on a better terms. They gave 700 more than the initial difference. Now, no condition would make him here. I do not think there would be any difficulty in accepting the negotiation. It's a very badly negotiated contract. Why? The people who negotiated it didn't know? The people who negotiated it didn't want to?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u168	Is the signatory or the first? Is that the first?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u169	This one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u170	Will you vote for it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u171	This is a bad contract. I think the framework, Mr Denkias, developed it, privatization, the conviction that we should be in this direction. I think we're voting in the direction, not the terms, right? So, not the terms, the direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u172	Please finish slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u173	I conclude by saying half a word about the question of property freezing. Under the original contract, real estate was committed. But why? To be used by the airport, right? Now, now, that's what's happened. It's done. There are many properties and many owners, who remain captive. Isn't that what it's supposed to be? These, now, why are they committing themselves? It's over. I accept that in the prospect of an extension, a small part of it may still remain committed, but it is a small part. Now, we have too many cell phones and thousands of owners. Well, in my opinion - I do not tell you that it is something that needs to be solved now, but it is something that needs to be solved, that is something that needs to be addressed - it would have been an opportunity to deal with in the context of the overall negotiation. But there was no negotiation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u174	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u175	I am therefore waiting for an answer, Minister, to this. These are specific issues: I have raised three and I would like to hear one - as you say - an answer with full arguments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u177	Mr President, do we have a dentistry or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u178	You don't have any dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u179	The rapporteurs have.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u180	The rapporteurs have, we don't. Let's not have one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u181	You won't have one. We'll see. Here, Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u182	Thank you. If I may say one or two thoughts. I won't talk much anyway. Well, I'm succeeding in the Stepma two very experienced lawyers who analyzed the contract from the legal point of view and asked some questions. I do not want - let me say - to take advantage of my time in answering with legal arguments the questions which they have raised, I will try to say the truth, because I am not an experienced lawman, I am an experienced - I think - a psychiatrist.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u183	That explains our position.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u184	Well, I'll try to say how I understood the conversation today, which is an interesting conversation, I admit. First, we should get the data. What's the data? In this Treaty - because I can say a lot about our general position, about how else it could be, etc. - the data today is that we actually have a contract that gives a 1,1 billion. This is the final result. That's the fact. The other is an attempt. It's not the fact, it's the attempt. That's right. It's an attempt. But the fact is that we have today 1,1 billion. That is to say, we have a very serious one - and that is why I imagine that New Democracy is closing down on this side - investment and, indeed, a fund which, if it is any objective, is not one of these 'brows' funds, is a fund that invests in the long term, is the fund of Canadian pensioners.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u185	She's doing the same job.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u186	Yes, she does the same job, says Mrs Manolakou. Mrs Manolakou, I do not know exactly how she does the same job, a Pensioners' Fund, with a fund like what we call'skins'. Maybe. I'm not in a position, but I'm saying what the facts are. The first event, then, is that. The second fact is that this whole process was initiated on the basis of a certain legal framework. If I read the first pages of the explanatory statement, among other things - and this raises a question in terms of the legal arguments which I have heard - the Court of Auditors has also examined this whole process.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u187	He doesn't control the amount.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u188	Wait a minute. I'm not talking about the amount. I'm saying the procedure was checked. I would like to say here what if there were any issues there - and there are issues in the WIDD, how it was negotiated, blah-blah, etc. - Obviously, there should be analogous issues in the procedures audited by the Court of Auditors, probably not. The third thing is: I think this story - particularly from how it is projected on the part of KINAL - has not become this projection on the part of the New Democracy - is like what in the various arguments, in relation to recent events, for example, the New Democracy has said - is saying so today - 'If you did not interrupt the country's governance in 2014, etc. We would win 43, 53 or 100 billion, etc.’ It is a hypothetical thought that really touches the limits of surrealism and ignores reality. I mean, if this attempt by the HICP did, we'd lose 700 million. But come on, when at the end of the day we reach 1.1 billion. In any case, in the real arguments and in fact in terms of valuation and direction, I do not think anyone has anything to say. I'm leaving the law. I imagine the Minister will answer that. These are some things that one cannot understand with common sense and create questions. I imagine that these questions will be answered. There is one more thing that I think is worth noting. I have not heard you say anything or ask questions about the elements of the economy that Mr Chakalotos said. That's where I didn't hear a word. Because that's the way it is. And that's reality no matter what we do. Either way we interpret it, it is a reality that shows no mastics, no celebrations that we are on a recovery course with very great difficulties, with very great problems, but we are in this process. I'm just finishing up with two more thoughts. I say, Minister, that perhaps in the Committee on Economic Affairs, when we are going to be in a more relaxed phase - I do not know when it will be - we should be serious about the Fund of Participation, the so-called surplus fund. Because such a debate I think it can clarify a lot of things. At least we should talk about reality and not about assumptions and slogans. I would remind you here that the TIAD was created as an exclusive privatization agency to sell, that was its objective. And that remains until he sells what he has to sell. I'm guessing, after he's finished his mission, he won't have another mission. So it makes sense - and I am thinking of it - to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy at some point to discuss the question of the excessive deficit, and what exactly is our logic, our perception and direction in relation to this reality of the surplus fund. I can easily hear it being said that a national government will suddenly come and dismantle the superstition or fight to abolish the superstition and so on. An antimony past and exaggerations in some way have been said in many respects. And from us. So I do not think there should be any chance of that. Let us have a serious debate on these issues. I feel that today, when these revelations were made by Mr Tsukatos, it is a matter that should probably be of concern to us overall. Let me point out, and I'm not saying anything more, because everything's control, whether it's like that or not it's not. In any case, he's in a process. We should not so easily either impliedly or excessively accuse myself, sometimes for a 'big scandal', of'small and big scandal'. I conclude by saying that I think it is a very reasonable argument that if it were a scandal the public interest would lose. There'd be a sign minus. That is a reasonable argument which, in my view, cannot be dealt with. Could it be better? Let's talk about this. It's for discussion. But it was scandalous that he won more than what he, in any case, said as a proposal by the TIADE - and ultimately, it is a big and important investment - I do not think it stands as a reasonable argument. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u189	May I? It is not customary for the parliamentary representative, but I would like to speak with you to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u190	You're welcome. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u191	Would you really be prepared to bring the ICT contracts to the Committee on Economic Affairs to discuss them? Because I must tell you sincerely that it is not the only one who has such issues. I'm telling you this so I don't hide what I'm thinking. Would you be willing to have two conversations, pass them one, sit down and talk them out?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u192	I talked about the overseer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u193	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u194	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u195	To answer two - three things I asked about. The first problem the opposition has is time. I don't know well in their Greek times. You are constantly saying - I do not know if you are doing so - 'we have lost', 'we have not won'. It's not the right time. The right time, which I don't know to say, but unfortunately, no one helped me behind, is the future conditional. 'We would have lost'. That's what you have to say if you want to be honest. 'We would have lost 600'. We didn't lose anything. The Greek people won from the original proposal of 600 million. So we didn't lose. The Greek people have lost absolutely nothing. After correcting your Greeks, I'm going to fix the law now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u196	He's a contributor to the future.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u197	That's what they told me, but they weren't sure. The second argument. He wanted an answer from Mr. Voridis, and I didn't understand. I have no idea what the problem is. The company already has the contract, the rights until 2026. The extension is after 2026. If something happens until 2026 and it ruins the whole thing, they have no right between 2026 and 2046. So what you said is not true, if I understand it well. It was not right to ask the question the way you put it. It was like it was ruining the whole thing. Until 2026, they won nothing. I think it's clear what I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u198	You don't say it right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u199	Maybe I won't say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u200	You're right. What you're saying is not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u201	By 2026, don't they have the rights anyway? We've got 'em by 2026. So we're talking about 2026-2046. If something breaks down in 2023 then it doesn't apply that they have a right, because the rights they have until 2026 have them since the old convention. Let's talk about it. I've never said we shouldn't talk. The last thing I want to say is if you want to have a conversation about HIDE and all the parties to go and make some suggestions about how it can work well. It's in your Memorandum. Your Memorandum commitment. Not yours, I think. Not even yours. It's 2011, isn't it? Anyway, I don't put it that way. If we want to have a debate on how the TEAD should be controlled, as you understood, the institutions have been pushed too hard, perhaps because they do not have the same positive assessment of the relationship between the governments of the New Democracy and the PASOK with the TECs. Perhaps that is why they had the idea that the strength of the minister and the government might be limited to intervention. Maybe that's why they limited it and did it that way. If you all want together, the democratic arc, as we say, to discuss and be able to renegotiate the framework of the WIDD and who controls who, I am open to this debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u202	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u203	Mr. Maniotis, even though you've spoken twenty-two minutes, I'll give you the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u204	Why for a minute tight? We've got deuterology. Aren't you gonna give me three minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u205	There are no extensions to sanctions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u206	Is the rapporteur not a dentist?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u207	They're set.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u208	You've exceeded all times. Mr. Maniatou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u209	With absolute honesty, Minister, what can I tell you? And I'm sorry, and I think you're selling us crazy, and I don't understand anything from the way you're dealing with this thing. I confess that I had the feeling that you were incarcerated and I say 'My child, man will try to get locked in some way'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u210	Wrong appreciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u211	I make it clear to you once and for all. You were offered a recommendation for 700 million less to collect the Greek State and you did nothing against it. Financial advisers who pay them out of our pockets, the Greek State, TIAD management that you appointed, the government appoints it, is not an independent authority and you leave it, Airport Board...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u212	That's not right either.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u213	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u214	You don't know the law, what to do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u215	I know him very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u216	You don't know him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u217	Didn't you appoint the HICP? Who appointed the administration of HICP? You. If you decide tomorrow to change it, will anyone forbid you to change it? Because you can change it tomorrow...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u218	The administration of the supergovernment...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u219	Listen to me, because here we all have to protect the public interest, and I am also addressing SYRIZA's colleagues. Here, children, it is not corn for 5 million, etc., it is 700 million, brought by the Minister, who signed them and instead of decapitating them all, holds them in place and defends, I repeat, four - five appointed public representatives at the international airport. Are you still holding them? I don't understand, son. When, then, will you replace an administration assigned to it to protect the public interest? Obviously, the GOI is not an independent authority. It is appointed by the government, which you change the administration whenever you like. You do not want to change it, but you take responsibility for it. Next thing I don't understand. Well, children, the Competition Committee made a press release and said to you 'SYRIZA children, instead of 380, put the head in and collect 1.1 billion, i.e. about 630 million more and don't talk'. And I ask you, as a national government elected by the people, have you assessed whether the Competition Committee is right or not? You know, Mr. President, why I say that? Because the Committee on Competition is not to negotiate and achieve the best for the Greek public or for the public. Governments are sending their decisions to the Competition Committee to check that there is unfair competition in relation to other airports and that there is benefit for a partner. As a result, my question to everyone is: Are you, the Minister first and the other colleagues, who will sign this convention, sure that the public could not win, I am not saying much, I say more than 10 million more than the 1,115 billion set by the Competition Committee?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u220	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u221	No, it's not good. How do you know? It is modest to trust with closed eyes a European authority, without any elementary, for reasons of national dignity, to check what comes to you as a mandate from the outside. It's tragic! It is insulting to the National Parliament. And because I saw the confidentiality, I admit I don't understand why you want to keep it confidential. There's nothing classified.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u222	I didn't say classified, confidential.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u223	Yeah, classified, confidential.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u224	Confidential, it's not classified for the MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u225	I'm saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u226	You say, to create impressions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u227	Didn't you say not to testify in the Minutes? So why are you making this classified?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u228	I said that he is at the disposal of the parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u229	The representatives of the parties will see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u230	Yeah, so classified. And we respect it if the Minister asks. I saw it. So much for the confidential information he's got! And again, do you accept that, my Minister, this note? So you're convinced that you'd almost lose 680 million as tunnels from your hands and convince you of this triple page? Because, Mr President, listen, we have this for granted. In 2015, based on data...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u231	Yeah, but finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u232	I'll finish. According to the information provided by the Commission, the passenger traffic at the airport was eighteen million passengers. In 2018, do you know how much it is? It's twenty-four million. So a question to the government, political and economic: You have assessed the concession contract for twenty years with a reference year, where the tourist movement, so airport revenue, was at least 30% below what it was last year. The moral and political question, then, is: Why, for example, don't you wait a year longer, since it's an upward curve for airport passengers, so that you can get more price? In reply to questions and I address also to SYRIZA's colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u233	Now we're colleagues on the same side...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u234	Finally,...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u235	Finish, Mr. Maniatis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u236	One final question to the New Democracy. I do not understand how you reconcile what the Parliamentary representative said about the weaknesses of the Convention and Mr Vorides in the vote on the Convention. I must say I raise my hands! But in any case, it is not my party. [[At this point, F Vice-President GEORGIOS LAMBROYLIS takes over the President-in-Office.]] In conclusion, because you have often claimed that the Canadian fund came in and is a sign of confidence in the Greek Government, the Canadian fund first purchased the entire HOCHTIEF, with its shares, at about six airports around the world. He came and bought "HOCHTIEF" in the period of Samara - Venizelos, in 2013. So, it's not your achievement, it's an achievement of the 2013 government. So keep a low basket on what you say as a government success. I'm hanging up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u237	How many times will you close?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u238	I think that it will finally have to be discussed in the National Parliament with what assessment, which expert expert, the Greek State has been granting for twenty years the exploitation of this public property, otherwise it will be a colonial government, which listens to Brussels's orders, without having the courage to stand up and check whether or not the way this procedure is being done is protected the public interest. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u239	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u240	Because I have now taken over the Bureau, I will not deny you, Mr Tindemans, but look at what is happening. It was said at the outset or during the course of the sitting that due to the pressure of time, in order to deliver the Chamber, there would be no seconds if I were transferred properly and I say it correctly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u241	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u242	He's been given the floor by Mr. Maniots and by two minutes he's spoken to him for eight minutes. Warm request, if easy, in the minute you requested to be consistent. Mr. Dendias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u243	I will be very quick, but I answer the Minister's question. Of course, the Minister is now complaining because I am answering a question, which he has submitted to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u244	It's not your fault, Mr. Maniattes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u245	Minister, what's the problem? I'm telling you, honestly, not opposition. The problem of this contract is the wording of 4.1 and 4.2. This wording is letonium in favour of the concessionaire. Why? Ladies and gentlemen, please take care of it. If you judge it to be rejected, throw it away, but listen to it, because it is, unfortunately. I wish it was different. What does Article 4.1 and 4.2 do? The period between now and 2026 is zeroing the risk to the concessionaire, regardless of any issue that concerns it. It says that if the contract is invalid and it is the concessionaire, it is okay, it can go freely. If he has no borrowing capacity, it's okay, he can go free. Whatever it is, it's okay, it can go away. And you're gonna tell me, what's wrong? Let me tell you what's wrong. The Greek State has claims, Minister, for compensation and criminal clauses.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u246	But you're saying the same thing. I've answered that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u247	Here you quit 4.2.b. your ability to request any compensation or criminal clause in relation to the contract by the concessionaire, even if the reason for it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u248	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u249	But how not? Look, now, you might want to close your eyes. You may want to please colleagues in some way. There is no way that this text can be read otherwise. You're doing exactly that thing. This thing is not allowed in any contract, ever. There's no other way to read.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u250	We've said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u251	If the honourable Members behind you say something else, I imagine, they are telling you this wrong. There's no need for a lawyer. If you read it yourself, you'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u252	Well, thank you, Mr. Dendia. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, it is declared...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u253	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u254	No, please. The debate on the articles at first reading is being declared adjourned...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u255	Mr President, I want my second language for clarification. I've asked you for the floor. I'm a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u256	But, Mr. Vlao, didn't you hear what I said before?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u257	No, I didn't hear what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u258	And besides that he made the intervention that Mr. Dendias asked for.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u259	I have heard that some colleagues have had secondary education, and I want two minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u260	Look, we've agreed on a process in a timeline.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u261	I need two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u262	Okay, now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u263	There are still unanswered questions from the Minister. You didn't follow the whole process.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u264	I beg your pardon, throughout the whole meeting, which started, if I'm not mistaken, at 14 noon, these questions were not answered?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u265	What can we do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u266	If they have not responded sufficiently - I may say - and you are not satisfied, I am now sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u267	In any case, don't make a point now. I want two minutes for my dentistry, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u268	And if these questions have been formulated through your first suggestion, that is, your prototype, and the Minister replied as he thought he needed to answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u269	I answered the above.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u270	I wasn't in the Chamber and I didn't watch it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u271	That is the view of the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u272	I would ask you, therefore, to have a further debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u273	Mr President, I would have been done so long. We, Minister, are now celebrating, because we say we did not lose that money. That's what this is about, isn't it? It was said very well by colleagues and you tell us that we did not lose them. Someone might claim that we didn't lose them by chance. Now, because you sent the Directorate-General for Competition, which you say, because you're obliged, that doesn't mean it'll always save us. Tell me, does a third party feel absolutely confident that 1,150 is the sure price? So, marginally, could it be 1,200? Couldn't it be? Therefore, you understand how delicate the balances between defence of public interest and damage are. Well, one is that. Secondly, you said that by 2026 we were going with the current one. That's right. So if in 2025, on the basis of what we have committed ourselves, in some way, the contract is being terminated, what remains in the Greek state? There's an airport that needs to make an international competition to make use of it from 2026 onwards. Did we sign a deal, yes or no? Did we anticipate parameters? So there's a risk in this deal and we're getting it all?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u274	There are the courts.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u275	You've resigned.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u276	That's what we're saying all this time. With 4.1 we doubt whether the public retains its rights or goes to court and finds it lost.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u277	Mr Vlavo, your points or your questions have been made just before by Mr Tindemans.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u278	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u279	At least as far as I am concerned, during my presence in the Bureau, I heard it with my ears and I do not need to be informed by the Services.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u280	But I want to fill in something.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u281	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u282	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u283	But you, the Parliamentary Groups, in general, are not contributing to this, as I say now, to the function of...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u284	What can I contribute to? It's a deal that leaves open unfinished and we're trying to highlight them. I will say at the end what we will do in terms of voting. So you said about 10%. Indeed, this institution has been abolished. You are right about this, but the commitment at first was - I say, in my own words - that when the Greek city is exploited, the municipalities around the new airport have received. This 'taken' is what we expect to hear. What have they received? Now, for the terminology, the body was built, the body was abolished, we don't care about us by what process will take place.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u285	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u286	We talked to you about specific projects to commit the government and it was an opportunity, now that we are prolonging the convention, to put this to the table. And the last thing, Mr. Vorides told you, I said it earlier, twenty-two thousand acres, why should they remain committed for another twenty years? For thirty years nothing has happened. Why other 20? Why do we keep citizens hostage? What's going on? Mall made, shopping malls there. What else is going to happen? I mean, finally.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u287	Good, Mr. Vlavo.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u288	If we don't put it on the table now at this stage, when will it get in? I believe that all our concerns, all our anxiety about this agreement, have emerged from the suggestion made by Mr Dendia and Mr Vorides. We don't want to go against an investment. We don't want to go against the concession that you're saying. We'll vote for it. But we want to record all of this, which has been said, which are concerns about 'the next day'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u289	They've been recorded, Mr. Vlach. They've been recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u290	I wish that what has emerged from us will be disproved. But you have an absolute responsibility for everything that comes out of this in the future. You take responsibility only for yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u291	Fine, fine. The debate on the principle and the articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is hereby terminated: ‘Definition of 24 January 2019 Convention on the extension of the “Airport Development Convention”, signed in Athens on 31 July 1995 and ratified by Law 2338/1995 (A'202)’. Their vote will be taken separately. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u292	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u293	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u294	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u295	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u296	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u297	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u298	Therefore, the Law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Definition of 24 January 2019 the “Airport Development Convention”, signed in Athens on 31 July 1995 and ratified by Law 2338/1995 (A-202)’, was accepted in principle by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u299	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u300	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u301	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u302	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u303	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u304	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u305	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u306	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u307	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u308	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u309	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u310	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u311	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u312	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the Law of the Ministry of Finance: “Definition of 24 January 2019 the “Airport Development Convention” Convention, signed in Athens on 31 July 1995 and ratified by n. 2338/1995 (A'202)’ has been accepted in principle and in Articles. We are entering the vote of the bill as a whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u313	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u314	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u315	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u316	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u317	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u318	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u319	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft Law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Definition of 24 January 2019 the Convention for the extension of the “Airport Development Convention”, signed in Athens on 31 July 1995 and ratified by Law 2338/1995 (A'202), was accepted by a majority, in principle, of the articles and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u320	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u321	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. At this point we are adjourning the meeting and we will continue at 6 p.m. in room 223, with the discussion of the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: "Following the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Kuwait on the promotion and mutual protection of investments and Roman Communications on the correction of Article 11(2) of the Greek original".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u322	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is continuing in room 223. Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: "Following the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Kuwait on the promotion and mutual protection of investments and Roman Communications, on the correction of Article 11(2) of the Greek original". The draft law was adopted by a majority vote in the Standing Committee and is brought to the House under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this agreement. On the basis of the picture we have from the committee, where this agreement was discussed, other than the Golden Dawn and the Communist Party, which was 'against', all the other parties were 'in favour'. I will give the floor to colleagues, on the basis of parliamentary power. The rapporteur for the Golden Dawn, Mr Panayotaros, will first speak and then the rapporteur for the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Vardalis. Mr. Panayotarus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u323	Thank you, Mr President. When we hear from the current government, but also from the previous government, especially the time of the memorials, for investments, first of all, we are looking for our pockets. Secondly, we leave as far as we can. For there is a great deal of confusion on your part about the term 'investment'. Because it is another thing to invest, and another thing to do, what is happening in our homeland in its infrastructures, its wealth over the last eight years. As for this ratification of the Agreement between the Greek Government and the Government of the State of Kuwait, one could say first of all that it is an agreement that may be beneficial to the economy of Greece with investment, as you say, especially in the current unfavourable economic and social situation. But are the motives and results of this, or are they different from what it looks like? Firstly, the Gulf countries, including Kuwait, are the foundations of Islamic financial institutions. They have four of the five largest Islamic banks in the world and maintain the highest concentration of Islamic capital deposits due to high income. It is worth noting that the sovereign investment funds of the Gulf Cooperation Council countries, which have been financed entirely from oil and gas revenues, have developed at a rate of 24% over the past five years. It is estimated that they manage a total of more than 1.1 trillion dollars, which is equivalent to about 40% of the assets managed by the dominant investment funds worldwide. One of the world's largest sovereign investment funds is Kuwait Investment Authority, with more than $200,000,000,000. So the crucial thing here is whether these Islamic banking groups, which have high positions in the world ranking, finance and encourage the entry and sovereignty of Islamic peoples into Europe. Of course, this question, as long as time passes, is sure. How is it possible to have a huge flow - within many introductory - 'immigrants' from the Muslim states in the European area, a flow that has altered the ethnic composition of European countries and threatens the peoples of Europe, as we know them, at the same time as the Islamic states, with which the refugee people are adjacent, on the one hand, have enormous economic prosperity, on the other hand, on the other hand, and on the other hand, are their counterparts? While the alleged refugee flows could choose their neighbouring states, they choose to cross thousands of miles, to suffer hardships, without - supposedly - financial coverage, to finally reach Christian Europe, which is lagging financially, while the states that are friendly to them possess part of the world's wealth. This alone demonstrates the design of the Muslim enforcement in Europe, through Greece and, indeed, financed by the powerful Islamic banks, including the Kuwait banking groups. For us, there is an issue of national sensitivity, since the Kuwait government, as we know, finances Muslim extremists mercenaries, except for its investments in various states. This government, along with others, finances mercenaries - although this ends - who slaughter Christians in Syria, as well as moderate Muslims, as in the past they had financed those who slaughtered the Serbs in Bosnia. We must not forget Kuwait's position in connection with the invasion of the Turks in 1974 and the proclamation of the Denktash pseudo-crats in the 1980s. We must also not lose sight of the fact that Kuwait has always been its long hand - in importing - 'American' factor in the region with all that means in shaping whatever situations in the wider region. In any case - and we repeat - we believe that these investments, as you say them, are not investments, but they are, in fact, cumbersome and well-being in our country's resources. With these considerations, we are voting against this sanction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u324	Mr Vardalis, special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u325	Thank you, Mr President. We, as a JRC, disagree with the specific agreement of Greece - Kuwait on the protection and attraction of investments, first of all because these agreements are not original. All capitalist states about such agreements sign. Why? Because the target is specific. First of all, they want to protect investors, protect and make sure the profits of business groups. After all, this is not the first time that our country has signed such agreements and it is not the first government to do so. In fact, this agreement with Kuwait, which we are discussing, has been signed by the Government of New Democracy and PASOK, and you are the ones who do so today. Secondly, we disagree: we believe - and so we believe - that it is not an individual, an independent act which seeks to protect investors. This measure is part of a strategy which creates overall conditions for the profitability of business groups and for their protection. And in this strategy, all the other parties agree. Here I would like to open a parentheses and make a comment on protectionism, which was heard by a previous rapporteur. Yesterday, in the European Parliament, there was a debate on the control of foreign direct investment. It is well known that China and Russia are trying to buy German and French companies. In this effort to protect European business groups, the European Union is discussing how to protect its own monopolies. Yesterday's the debate. This is where we see two trends. On the one hand, there is the freedom to move capital, when it suits us, for certain reasons, by defending the interests of a particular portion of the bourgeoisie class, certain monopolies, but when this competition does not generate profits and we lose this competition, then freedom of movement of capital goes on and we go to protectionism. That's what Trump does in America. But in both cases, either the freedom to move capital comes before or protectionism - in this case allegedly by Islamic capital or Chinese or any other - is a case, a dispute, a competition between portions of the bourgeoisie, between shares of capital. In both cases, those who pay the marble, those who lose, are the workers. Therefore, there should be no such dilemma for workers. The main opponent is the action of capital, with the aim of gaining, and in this direction workers should organise their struggle. I'm closing the parentheses. Such agreements you consider to be tools you have in your hands - it is not the only one - to improve the investment climate, to attract investment. After all, you have taken a number of measures, which we have also told the committee, in this direction, measures to create conditions for the profitability of large capital, to reduce the direct and indirect costs, for example, tax and other facilities, financial instruments, to simplify licensing, to reduce energy costs, to invest in spatial planning. All this, you have gone through with the three memoranda and that effort, and you continue it with such an agreement, so that you can offer the fullest possible protection to investors. In fact, with this agreement, you are granting a favoured State scheme and a national treatment scheme. Mr President-in-Office, because we have also had a debate in committee, we understand very well the stress you have, in order to get investors, to develop the capitalist economy, to zero the risk, as you have said, for investors to prefer our country. And after all, you did not do a little in that direction. You have, in principle, maintained what the previous governments have done and on them you have added yours through the third memorandum. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I want you to know that we do not have this stress, about the risk that investors will risk, much more when we know that their profits are made by workers' work, by their exploitation, and neither will we repent to investors because, as the committee has heard, they are giving workers a job and they are reducing unemployment. Let this happen, when it happens, only when they have profits. When they have no profits, they throw out the workers on the street and they don't pay attention to anyone. What work and what reduction in unemployment are we talking about? With that money they're getting, can't he pay HNPH and the other raisins, live his family? Is that a job we're talking about? He can't pay for his children's education and have his health? He cannot satisfy today's, modern needs?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u326	Mr. Bardalis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u327	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute, if I may. You tell us: Investments, profits, taxes, so incomes for the state, so we will have social policy. This, in our opinion, is a fairy tale and what you will get, whatever investments, of whatever profits, you will give back to the big capital. For all these reasons, therefore, we are voting against this agreement. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u328	You spoke less than the minute you asked. Mr Drasakis, Minister for Economy and Development, has the floor to conclude the debate and proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u329	I too will be brief, Mr President, because no arguments have been heard against this agreement. The general political policies of the parties, which they have spoken about, have been heard. For the Golden Dawn, I would like to say that, as I have said in committee, this declaration of hatred to the Arab peoples today, tomorrow to the Chinese people, to the American people or to the Turkish people, is a practice which insults us as a Parliament, because the national interest in our country is to have a policy of peace and friendship with all the peoples. We seek cooperation that is equal and beneficial to all countries. And that is what our government is trying to do and does, and indeed with some planning, which we can have today, while during the implementation of the memoranda we were not able to plan our strategy. So what we heard from the Golden Dawn is not related either to the agreement or to the investments, but to a declaration of hatred, which shows that this party, this organization, wants a country that is impoverished so that, of course, the Golden Dawn can appear, say and do what it does. From the Communist Party, too, we have heard more about its general view of capitalism. The only correction I want to make is that there is no country that does not seek such agreements. Why? Because these agreements are mutually beneficial. They create legal certainty and say that, once an investment is made in our country or in the other country, it will have the same protection as domestic investment. In this sense, as I have said, all the countries are pursuing this type of agreement. It's not panacea. The agreement does not guarantee everything itself, but it creates this climate of stability and security between countries. That is why, as I said in committee and I will repeat, countries like Cuba, Vietnam and others have such agreements. In fact, I see the painting of Vietnam. Recently, in 2008, we signed such an agreement and have been in force since 2011. So this piece doesn't have a base. Now, in general, I only want to say, is that we are not nervous and you know that. It's one of what you say and what it takes. We are not nervous about investors or their profits. We are interested in getting out of a crisis that is destructive, where we lost 25% of the wealth of the country's national income, where we had an unemployment of 27% on the basis of official figures, how to reduce this unemployment. How? It seems to me that some people are avoiding this question. With the classic media, with our own means, of course, we will take a lot of time. So, in this context, you are looking to see, if you can with foreign investments, speed up and facilitate this social objective, because that is a real problem and not a fantastic one. I don't want to generalize the conversation. However, the Left and the JRC at other times recognised the complementary role, which can and must play the foreign capital in the implementation, of course, of a country's reconstruction plan, etc. But that's not the present one. So, to conclude, and in this area, I think this is a mistake. The question is not whether we should pursue foreign investment. The question, which has also been suggested by my colleague from the JRC, is: What investments, for what purpose, in what areas, for whose benefit, if they are part of a project. There is indeed a field of fertile dialogue and confrontation, because no one says that those who want to invest in a country do so for charity purposes. Obviously, they want to maximise their own profits and implement their own plans. But this is exactly where governments are differentiated. Others have the beginning of free doors, as they say. Others try to have their own goals and try, whatever investments, to serve these goals. These are issues, of course, of a more general debate, and I therefore do not want to extend myself beyond thanking for the calm climate in the debate. To vote for the agreement and hope that it will help to develop our relations with Kuwait, because it is an important country. We have excellent relationships. Our trade is positive, but it is at very low levels and it is precisely this agreement that could, together with other measures - we soon have a mixed inter-ministerial system - help to develop relations on a mutual basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u330	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The debate on the principle and the articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development is closed: "Under the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Kuwait on the promotion and mutual protection of investments and Roman Communications on the correction of Article 11(2) of the Greek original". Asked by this House: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u331	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u332	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u333	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u334	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u335	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u336	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u337	Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Economy and Development: ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Kuwait on the promotion and mutual protection of investments and Roman Communications on the correction of Article 11(2) of the Greek original text’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u338	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u339	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u340	Ladies and gentlemen, we are going back to the SPECIFIC HORIZATION Parliament's decisions: continuation of the debate and decision on the proposals for revision of the provisions of the Constitution, in accordance with Rules 110 of the Constitution and 119 of the Rules of Procedure of the House." I have the honour to announce the result of the vote in the Proposing Parliament on the revision of the Constitution. I shall read only the article and the paragraph, that is, the provisions of the interpretative statements in accordance with Article, and I shall say the result next door. OPINION OF THE PARLIAMENT FEDERAL GROUP OF SYRIZA Article 3(1): YES 151 NO 101 IN THE CHAIR: MRS 19 Article 3(2): YES 151 NO 102 IN THE CHAIR: MRS 19 Article 3(3) (repealing paragraph): YES 167 NO 101 REFERENCES 4 Article 3 (introduction of an interpretative declaration): YES 153 NO 115 REFERENCES 4 Article 13(5): YES 151 NO 101 REFERENCES 20 Article 21(1): YES 157 NO 99 REFERENCES 2 Article 21(3): YES 157 NO 113 REFERENCES 3 Article 21 (Additional paragraph 7): YES 154 NO 115 REFERENCES 3 Article 22(1): YES 172 NO 96 REGISTER 5 Article 22(2): YES 155 NO 112 REGISTER 5 Article 22(4): YES 163 NO 101 REFERENCES 6 Article 22(5): YES 155 NO 112 REFERENCES 4 Article 28(2): YES 154 NO 117 IN WITNESS 1 Article 30(1): YES 148 NO 120 REFERENCES 3 Article 32(4): YES 221 NO 46 REFERENCES 3 Article 32(5): YES 220 NO 47 REFERENCES 3 Article 33(2): YES 168 NO 98 REGISTER 5 Article 34(1)(b): YES 147 NO 121 REFERENCES 2 Article 35(2)(c): YES 150 NO 118 REFERENCES 2 Article 37(2): YES 153 NO 101 MONITORING 16 Article 38(1): YES 155 NO 115 INTRODUCTION 0 Article 41(5): YES 150 NO 118 REFERENCES 2 Article 44(2): YES 152 NO 102 REFERENCES 15 Article 54(1): YES 155 NO 100 REFERENCES 15 Article 54(4): YES 158 NO 97 MONITORING 16 Article 54 (importation of an interpretative declaration): YES 153 NO 114 REFERENCES 2 Article 56 (Additional paragraph 5): YES 158 NO 111 REFERENCES 2 Article 59(1): YES 167 NO 97 REFERENCES 4 Article 59(2): YES 168 NO 97 REFERENCES 4 Article 62: YES 237 NO 33 IN WITNESS 1 Article 73: YES 168 NO 97 REFERENCES 3 Article 84(2): YES 155 NO 115 INTRODUCTION 0 Article 86(3): YES 253 NO 17 INTRODUCTION 0 Article 86 (importation of an interpretative declaration): YES 179 NO 92 INTRODUCTION 0 Article 101a: YES 231 NO 34 REFERENCES 6 Article 102(2): YES 168 NO 101 IN WITNESS 1 These were the articles in the proposals of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. OPINION OF THE PARLIAMENT OF THE NEW REPUBLIC Article 2(2): YES 87 NO 175 REFERENCES 2 Article 4(2): YES 83 NO 173 REFERENCES Article 15(2): YES 87 NO 174 IN WITNESS 1 Article 16(2): YES 92 NO 168 REFERENCES 4 Article 16(5): YES 93 NO 168 REFERENCES 4 Article 16(6): YES 94 NO 169 REFERENCES 2 Article 16(7): YES 91 NO 168 REGISTER 5 Article 16(8): YES 93 NO 169 REFERENCES 2 Article 17 (Additional paragraph 8): YES 84 NO 174 REFERENCES 6 Article 24(1): YES 86 NO 176 REFERENCES 2 Article 24(2): YES 87 NO 177 IN WITNESS 1 Article 24(3): YES 84 NO 177 REFERENCES 4 Article 24 (introduction of an interpretative declaration): YES 84 NO 177 REFERENCES 4 Article 25(2): YES 90 NO 173 REFERENCES 2 Article 25(4): YES 90 NO 172 IN WITNESS 1 Article 29(2): YES 89 NO 176 INTRODUCTION 0 Article 32(3): YES 84 NO 176 REGISTER 5 Article 32(4): YES 87 NO 176 REFERENCES 2 Article 33(2): YES 87 NO 176 REFERENCES 2 Article 34(1): YES 82 NO 178 REGISTER 5 Article 35(2): YES 88 NO 175 REFERENCES 2 Article 35 (Additional paragraph 4): YES 88 NO 174 REFERENCES 3 Article 37(3): YES 85 NO 177 REFERENCES 3 Article 41(2) (repealing paragraph): YES 83 NO 172 REFERENCES 6 Article 42(1): YES 83 NO 176 REGISTER 5 Article 44(2): YES 88 NO 160 MONITORING 17 Article 44(3): YES 89 NO 173 REFERENCES 2 Article 49(2): YES 82 NO 179 REFERENCES 2 Article 51(4): YES 88 NO 174 IN WITNESS 1 Article 53(1): YES 87 NO 175 IN WITNESS 1 Article 54(1): YES 87 NO 175 IN WITNESS 1 Article 58: YES 86 NO 176 IN WITNESS 1 Article 59(1): YES 87 NO 174 REFERENCES 2 Article 59(2) (repealing paragraph): YES 86 NO 175 REFERENCES 2 Article 62(1): YES 88 NO 174 IN WITNESS 1 Article 65(1): YES 89 NO 173 IN WITNESS 1 Article 65 (Additional paragraph 7): YES 92 NO 167 REFERENCES 3 Article 68(2): YES 234 NO 34 IN WITNESS 1 Article 70(6): YES 84 NO 151 REFERENCES 20 Article 70 (Additional paragraph 9): YES 83 NO 151 PART 21 Article 72 (Additional paragraph 5): YES 83 NO 167 REFERENCES 6 Article 74(1): YES 87 NO 167 REFERENCES 2 Article 74(3) (repealing paragraph): YES 87 NO 167 REFERENCES 2 Article 74(4) (repealing paragraph): YES 87 NO 167 REFERENCES 2 Article 74(5): YES 87 NO 167 REFERENCES 2 Article 75(1): YES 87 NO 152 MONITORING 17 Article 76(4): YES 87 NO 167 REFERENCES 2 Article 76(5): YES 86 NO 175 REFERENCES 2 Article 78(2): YES 85 NO 175 REFERENCES 3 Article 78(3) (repealing paragraph): YES 82 NO 175 REFERENCES 6 Article 78(6): YES 85 NO 176 REFERENCES 2 Article 79(1): YES 85 NO 175 REFERENCES 3 Article 79(7): YES 85 NO 175 REFERENCES 3 Article 79(8): YES 85 NO 174 REFERENCES 3 Article 79 (Additional paragraph 9): YES 86 NO 173 REFERENCES 3 Article 81(1): YES 84 NO 175 REFERENCES 4 Article 82(1): YES 84 NO 175 REFERENCES 4 Article 82(4): YES 89 NO 174 IN WITNESS 1 Article 82 (Additional paragraph 5): YES 87 NO 174 REFERENCES 2 Article 86(1): YES 87 NO 174 IN WITNESS 1 Article 86(2): YES 87 NO 174 IN WITNESS 1 Article 86(3) (repealing paragraph): YES 89 NO 157 MONITORING 16 Article 86(4): YES 87 NO 174 IN WITNESS 1 Article 88(2): YES 82 NO 174 REFERENCES 6 Article 88(5): YES 83 NO 173 REFERENCES 6 Article 89(4): YES 97 NO 160 REFERENCES 4 Article 90(5): YES 86 NO 174 REFERENCES 3 Article 91(1): YES 83 NO 176 REFERENCES 4 Article 91(2) (repealing paragraph): YES 83 NO 176 REFERENCES 4 Article 91(3) (repealing paragraph): YES 84 NO 176 REFERENCES 4 Article 91(4): YES 83 NO 176 REGISTER 5 Article 93 (Additional paragraph 5): YES 88 NO 172 IN WITNESS 1 Article 94(4): YES 88 NO 173 IN WITNESS 1 Article 98(1): YES 87 NO 174 IN WITNESS 1 Article 99(1): YES 83 NO 175 REFERENCES 4 Article 99(2) (repealing paragraph): YES 82 NO 175 REGISTER 5 Article 99(3) (repealing paragraph): YES 82 NO 175 REGISTER 5 Article 100(1): YES 83 NO 174 REFERENCES 4 Article 100(2): YES 83 NO 174 REFERENCES 4 Article 100(3) (repealing paragraph): YES 82 NO 174 REGISTER 5 Article 101 (Additional paragraph 5): YES 88 NO 172 IN WITNESS 1 Article 101a(2): YES 88 NO 171 REFERENCES 2 Article 102(4): YES 82 NO 174 REGISTER 5 Article 102(5): YES 83 NO 173 REGISTER 5 Article 103(7): YES 87 NO 174 REFERENCES 2 Article 106(1): YES 85 NO 174 REFERENCES 2 Article 106(2): YES 85 NO 174 REFERENCES 2 Article 110(4) (repealing paragraph): YES 85 NO 175 REFERENCES 2 Article 110(6) (repealing paragraph): YES 84 NO 174 REFERENCES 2 Article 112(2) (repealing paragraph): YES 82 NO 158 PART 21 Article 112(3) (repealing paragraph): YES 83 NO 158 PART 21 Article 112(4) (repealing paragraph): YES 222 NO 25 PART 21 Article 113 (repealed): YES 223 NO 24 PART 21 Article 114(1): YES 230 NO 18 PART 21 Article 114(2) (repealing paragraph): YES 231 NO 20 REFERENCES 20 Article 115(1): YES 231 NO 19 PART 21 Article 115(2): YES 230 NO 20 PART 21 Article 115(3) (repealing paragraph): YES 230 NO 20 PART 21 Article 115(4) (repealing paragraph): YES 226 NO 25 PART 21 Article 116 (repealed): YES 87 NO 170 REPRODUCERS Article 117(3) (repealing paragraph): YES 88 NO 169 REFERENCES 6 Article 117(5) (repealing paragraph): YES 88 NO 154 REFERENCES 20 Article 117(6) (repealing paragraph): YES 88 NO 155 REFERENCES 20 Article 117(7) (repealing paragraph): YES 88 NO 155 REFERENCES 20 Article 118 (repealed): YES 84 NO 157 OBJECTIVE 24 Article 119(1) (repealing paragraph): YES 209 NO 37 PART 21 So the list of articles is closed - because the review procedure provides for an intervention on the provisions of Articles and on the articles, and that is why we say the same article several times according to its paragraph - proposed by the New Democracy Parliamentary Group. For the additional proposals - provisions proposed by Members: APPLICATION OF THE COMPETITION RULES IN THE EUROPEAN UNION Article 5(2): YES 170 NO 99 INTRODUCTION 0 Article 24A (introduction of a new provision): YES 92 NO 130 MONITORING 40 Article 25(3): YES 169 NO 95 REFERENCES 4 Article 38(2): YES 156 NO 98 MONITORING 16 Article 96(5): YES 233 NO 19 IN THE CHAIR: MRS 19 Article 101(1): YES 151 NO 95 REFERENCES 22 Article 101(3): YES 150 NO 111 REFERRED TO IN Article 101(4): YES 165 NO 96 REFERENCES 6 Article 101 (introduction of an interpretative paragraph): YES 170 NO 94 REFERENCES 2 Article 108(2) (recast paragraph) YES 118 NO 104 ANNEX 43 Members' seats are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u341	Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, after at least one month, that is to say one month after the date of this three-day sitting, the second sitting will be held at which all the articles and articles will be put to the vote, which will have been read out by a hundred and fifty votes and over. The procedure will follow in the next House, in the Review House, where the articles in question that have received more than a hundred fifty-one votes, but less than a hundred eighty, will be needed to approve an eighty-eight votes and over. The relevant articles that will have received more than one hundred and eighty votes will need a hundred fifty one votes and on their final adoption. Ladies and gentlemen, before we close today's procedure, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-four students and students and two educational sessions from the 37th Municipal School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Let me inform you that this is the last moment of the three-day process for the Revision of the Constitution. There are very few Members here, because there was a vote for a hundred and fifty two - if I am not mistaken - in whole or for more, and the counting took almost six hours. That is why we had remained in the Chamber only for us who were absolutely necessary to announce the final result of the vote. Thank you very much for your presence. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-14-S1-commons.u342	With the consent of the House at 19.05 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, February 15, 2019 at 10 a.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
