ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's 15-11-2019 authorisation, the minutes of its NH's meeting of Friday 15 November 2019, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Under the Convention of the Council of Europe signed at Maglingen/Macolin on 18 September 2014 on manipulation of sports games, urgent measures to combat violence in sport, conversion of the Hellenic Olympic Committee to NCI, ratification of this new statute and other provisions’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Parliament's decisions: a debate on the revised provisions of the Constitution in accordance with Rules 110 of the Constitution and 119 of the Rules of Procedure. Under Rule 119 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the debate on the revised provisions is conducted in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure, i.e. by applying the provisions of Rules 95 to 104 of the Rules of Procedure. The debate refers to the content of the revised provisions, as laid down in the decision of the IZ Plenary Session and as their contents have been formulated and proposed by the Review Committee. The Conference of Presidents on 7 November 2019 and 14 November 2019 decided to make available for the conclusion of the debate on the principle and on the individual themes a total of five meetings and a vote session, as provided for in the Constitution for the vote a meeting. In particular, with regard to the debate on the principle, I propose that the time limits to be allocated to the appropriate application of the provisions of Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. 15 minutes for the general rapporteurs and special speakers, 15 minutes for the parliamentary representatives, seven minutes for the registered speakers and twenty-five minutes for any minister who wishes to speak. The speakers will be registered with the electronic system, from the speech of the first rapporteur-general until the end of the speech of the second Secretary-General, namely the second speaker. The debate on the revised provisions I propose that four meetings be held as follows: At the first meeting - that is tomorrow, Tuesday - which corresponds to the first and second thematic section of the Constitutional Review Committee, namely Relations between Church and State, Religious Freedom, Oath and Individual and Social Rights, Tuesday, as I said, 19 November 2019, to discuss Articles 3(1) and 2, 3(3) (repealing paragraph), 3 (interpretation), 13(5), 33(2), 59(1) and 2, 5(2), 21(1) and 3, 21 (additional paragraph 7), 22(1), 2, 4 and 25(3) of the Constitution. At the second meeting, which corresponds to the third, fourth and eighth thematic section of the Constitutional Review Committee - i.e. institutional provisions, referendum, People's Legislative Initiative and Election of the President of the Republic - on Wednesday 20 November 2019, discuss Articles 37(2), 38(1) and (2), 68(2), 84(2), 28(2), 44(2), 73 and 32(4) and (5) of the Constitution. At the third meeting, which corresponds to the fifth and ninth section of the Constitutional Review Committee - i.e. Uninterrupted MPs, Prosecution against Members of the Government, Election System and Stealings of Election - on Thursday 21 November 2019, discuss Articles 62, 86(3), 86 (introduction of an interpretative statement) 54(1), 54 (insertion of an interpretative statement), 54 (insertion of an interpretation declaration) and 56 (insert paragraph 5) of the Constitution. At the fourth meeting, which corresponds to the sixth and seventh section of the Constitutional Review Committee - i.e. Military Judges, Independent Authorities, Regional Organisation of the State, OTA and Final and Transitional Provisions - on Friday 22 November 2019, discuss Articles 96(5), 101A, 101(1) and 4.1 (introduction of an interpretative declaration), 102(2), 112(4) (within the abolition of paragraph), 113 (repeal), 114(1), 114(2) (repealing paragraph), 115(1) and 2, 115(3) (repealing paragraph), 115(4) (in the same way as the removal of paragraph) and 119(1) (in the same way) of the Constitution. In the course of the debate, Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their excellent report. Members of Parliament who fall within the respective section. In order to better organise the debate on the modules in terms of speaking time and in order to have more time at our disposal, I propose adding to the list of speakers that I have mentioned, in accordance with the relevant Rules of Procedure, up to two special rapporteurs from the New Democracy Parliamentary Group and up to two special rapporteurs from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. I therefore propose that the time should be set up as follows: 15 minutes for the rapporteurs-general and special speakers, ten minutes for the four overall Special Rapporteurs of the ND and SYRIZA, who were added by this proposal, eight minutes for the registered speakers, 15 minutes for the Parliamentary Representatives and 15 minutes for the relevant Minister in each section. The speakers will be registered with the electronic system from the speech of the first general rapporteur until the end of the speech of the second special speaker, who is the second special speaker - do not take the second speaker to you - is the fourth speaker. Tuesday and Wednesday's meetings will begin at 9.30 p.m. On Thursday the meeting will begin at 12 noon, due to the celebration of the Armed Forces Day, on which the House has a capital involvement. Friday's meeting will start at 10:00. The list will also be drawn up for each individual meeting, again, at its beginning, regardless of the list of speakers at the previous meeting. Finally, on Monday, 25 November 2019, the meeting will begin at 10.00 with the speeches, exclusively, of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups and will be concluded with the vote on the revised provisions, at the same time, in accordance with the Constitution and Rules of the Parliament, as well as the adoption of the resolution of the current I Revision House. Does this House agree with this proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u2	The House agrees. Before we begin, I would like to make a self-evident point of law. As I have explained in the Conference of Presidents, on Articles 114(1) and 115(1) and (2), by mistake - obvious mistake - there have been proposals made in the committee's report on content that must be removed and I request the approval of this House. In other words, these proposals which I have just mentioned should not be sent to Parliament for debate and revision. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u3	We agree to be removed. I stress that these provisions of the Constitution, 114 and 115, are one of those which are proposed to be abolished. This will, however, be discussed in the relevant section concerning these articles. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-two students and students and three educational sessions from the 2nd General School of Elefsis. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I wanted to tell the students of the 2nd General Eleusis High School that they are following the process of Revision of the Constitution, a rare process, which usually becomes very sparse, every ten years or so. So you have this fate to be at the start of a rare and important process. The general rapporteur of the New Democracy Mr Konstantinos Javarras, MP of Ilias, is called in Stepma. Please open the speaker's record system.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, it begins today and will last all week, a top parliamentary procedure, the process of Revision of the Constitution, which began during the previous House and is completed with the First Session of this House, in accordance with the provision of Article 110 of the Constitution. Revision of the Constitution is a parliamentary and political process. But, above all, it is a process of reproduction, at a more advanced level, of the constitutional word, which was delivered to writing, the captivity of writing, since 1975, continued in 1986, further in 2001 and 2008, so that the turn of this House could come today to relive the parliamentary speech, which was immobilised in the context and limits of the written text of the Constitution. That is why today's parliamentary speech is, in fact, nothing but an attempt to develop, correct and, possibly, to restore these shortcomings which life itself imposed during the historic time that has passed since the last Review to date. This is the charm of the fact that the orality of the parliamentary speech is the vitality given to a text, which, as Phaedros said to Plato, "has been delivered to scripture and died". So this process, which has always the need for a "father" to be able to function, rectify, guided, today enters its final phase. At this stage, then, we are being called with a vividness of an oral, rosy speech, which will be made on the contrary and, as we pointed out by the previous House, it will be conducted 'in advance and by debt', i.e. from conflicting, from different perceptions, which are based on different values, to be led to compositions. This is fate, value and purpose of liberal democracy. Why am I saying that? In the course of the Committee's work, which lasted a month and a half and worked out all the articles proposed for the revision of the Constitution, a great deal of effort was made to meet this treaty. And, indeed, we are all pleased that, according to the parliamentary speech, it has been formulated and expressed by the different party groups involved in this process and by all those who have taken the floor, the concern has been that there should be a quality, a high parliamentary reason. This has been achieved in many respects too. We must, however, bear in mind that this is a political process, and it is a process in which we are called upon, through the orality of the conflicts, to include the proposals for revision under the rule of Article 110. I am saying this because, during the debates, scientific opinions were made and there were little moments when we saw that the committee had, in fact, consumed in the controversy of scientific perceptions, suggestions, thoughts and opinions, which actually did nothing but carry back into this room the disputes. Many times it happened that parties' ideological views were turned into scientific assurances. This, however, does not satisfy the need for a revision of the Constitution, which - I repeat - is political, is not scientific. And in the sense of this policy, we have to say that it is done within the framework of a parliamentary procedure. It is in the context of a parliamentary procedure, but at times bad for Parliament itself. And that actually gives her a very dynamic one. Because this debate should resist a number of prejudices that have been created in civil society, about the deterioration of institutions from the economic crisis. The ten years of the economic crisis are now common belief that it has not only altered democratic processes, it has not led to the destruction of constitutional institutions, but also to a wall of distrust against the functioning of representative democracy. So a dialogue, which during the 1920s, had been strongly recorded, comes back at the forefront. And this dialogue begins exactly with the same suspicions. It starts with the betrayal of the representatives - what we said'representative betrayal' - and the parliamentary imperfections - namely that in Parliament - as many people have said, and, in the past years, this was the permanent incubation - there are three hundred who sit and do nothing, there are the three hundred who have delivered the country to the mercy of a evil crisis, against which they do not have the means to resist and create the will of the state needed to uphold its resurrection to the mighty of the earth. Here, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me, in an incident, to recall the arguments that had then been exchanged between two top-level law, which are absolutely essential and will lead us to this debate as well. Then, in 1923, for the first time, Professor Carl Schmidt was published for parliament and democracy. There, in short, this judiciary said that parliamentarianism has been strayed from its purposes, has been removed from its founding myths and now Parliament has become the place where free and public debate is not the best argument, the maximum coercive, to convince the opponent. On the contrary, there are parties, which have become very great powers, which, in secret counseling, lead to some sort of solutions and decisions behind the people's backs. Just this reproach against parliamentaryism took over and effectively challenged another great Viennese professor of law, Hans Kelsen. So he left us a very important case, which today is the medicine against all the diseases presented by parliamentaryism and democracy, because of this treaty, which SYRIZA colleagues had called during the debate 'the post-democratic treaty'. So what saves democracy today is the same medicine that saved it, and then, of course, after that, the throat of chillerism, Nazism and fascism. So what we need to keep in mind is that democracy does not believe in absolute truths. Democracy and parliamentarianism are not intended to produce political truths and, above all, through the discussions in Parliament, we do not always come to the right solution. Because there are these imperfections of parliamentaryism, it does not mean that we should abandon parliamentaryism and democracy. Because parliamentarianism is democratically legitimised when the discussions within the National Representation are intended to bring together opposing views and lead to a compromise between different perceptions, but also divergent interests. That is the essence of liberal democracy. There will be no SYRIZA New Democracy, no New Democracy SYRIZA through the discussions that are taking place here. But these discussions should be conscious, aware that neither New Democracy can ignore SYRIZA nor SYRIZA can ignore the New Democracy. To God, I do not turn to a new climate of bipolarism, which I mention the two parties. But because, against this background, there are discussions between the majority and the officers, I am obliged, if you like, to make the message I want to give in my words clearer. That is exactly why I am talking, for example, about the two parties. At this stage, then, I think we have served precisely that perception, that democracy is an expression of political relativism. Democracy has no worthy foundation. Democracy does not empower or guide visions of cosmospherics. Democracy is the system of governance through codified procedures. In democracy the will of the state is formed and formed through an institutionalised conflict of understanding and interests. That is why compromise is the ideal of democracy. And in that context, I think we have moved. Of course, we could be braver, we could be more irresponsible toward the ideas of every party. However, it is certain that, if we had insisted, we would have achieved better choices through this procedure as well with regard to the revision of Article 16. Because I believe many of you, gentlemen, have inside you 'if we had joined the view of amending Article 16'. And if, in the decision we take next week, we also amended this article so that there would also be non-State, non-profit-making higher education institutions in Greece, Greece would have taken a step forward. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Greece, in fact, would have responded to a very necessary step to stop children from getting out in the interest of their studies and to stop our economy from bleeding... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If I may, Mr President, I would like three or four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u5	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u6	I don't know if my demand is too much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u7	No, it's a very glamorous demand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u8	Thank you. I believe that there would have been no ideological convictions and no value which constitute the political character of the other parties if they had joined in this regard. I think that this is also the case for Article 24, which is where we have lost the opportunity to raise a constitutional emblem in what we are going to face in the coming years, which is the great damage that will be caused by climate change. The third and most serious point, in my opinion, is that we have also lost the opportunity to stand up to this routine of producing anti-constitutional laws from Parliament itself, through the introduction of a mechanism to prevent constitutionality by the Supreme Special Court. Indeed, I think you have shown an indifference, and you should not. However, it is true that we have succeeded in agreeing on seven major areas. And these areas cover the whole range and context of the Constitution. It is primarily the amendment of Article 21(1) which, for the first time and in the indication of the social solidarity that must be the principle of social rule of law, with a proposal from the New Democracy, is added and now there will be a system of financial protection for the family against poverty by introducing the minimum guaranteed income. The second case is Article 68(2), which, in fact, we have now clearly formulated - because the previous wording of Article 68 was unclear - the right of a minority to provoke two committees of inquiry during the parliamentary term. The establishment of a committee of inquiry is now being established as a means of parliamentary scrutiny, i.e. as a means of government control. This was the mission initiated by England and was essentially guaranteed by an order in the Baimar Constitution. It is said, in fact, that it was a proposal from Max Webber, who was then a Member of Parliament. The third issue, and very serious, is that we have limited the cases for which Parliament is willing to waive the immunity of Members for acts they do during their term of office. Because what really matters is that the Member should only be protected in those acts which are directly relevant to the exercise of his parliamentary duties. That is the essence of democracy, and that is the essence of protecting the representative of the people for every event in which they are defending their position. Article 86 was also a very large section, because we unanimously all Parliament's wings have decided that we should finally abolish the amortization deadline which has included the exercise of Parliament's procedural right to punish ministerial crimes in a suffocating manner. Now there is no longer any blocking of time for the House to exercise over many years, which basically coincides with the limitation of their respective crimes, the exercise of its right to punish those who have been delinquents or felonies in the performance of their duties and were State Secretarys or Ministers. There are two very serious provisions, however, which are also large areas. It is the provision of Article 54, with the addition of paragraph 4 on the vote of the relatives, who, for the first time in forty-five years, all parties have the great concern and we have the commitment to ensure that the vote of the non-residents is finally facilitated. This will indeed be a revolutionary intersection that we are going to do. And now the expression of Rule 62, which says that the Member is a representative of the nation, will be completed. It will be completed, as far as possible, because it will indeed have to be restricted to this very possibility. The great offer of this Review House is that we have finally finished with Article 32(4), which, if the President of the Republic fails to elect three successive, and by an increased majority, votes during the same parliamentary term led to the dissolution of the House. It is precisely this disconnection that is the great offer to democracy and our culture. Finally, of course, there is also the provision of Article 95(6), which is fully assimilated by the military judges, the judges of the Armed Forces, with the ordinary judges, and which is now leaving an entire era, which completely removed us from this memory of the military courts, which are traumatic, the experiences that exist for many of their operation. It is also very important that the revision of Article 101a, concerning the reduced majority of the members of the administration of the independent administrative authorities, should be elected. Ladies and gentlemen, I think what we have achieved is very important. Indeed, there were compromises and we made them with a very great democratic effort, with arguments which, on all sides, understood the parliamentary reason. What I want to say, however, is that, in the context of this debate that is taking place today, we should serve him to do that. Indeed, in the context of this relativeisation of the values and perceptions and interests represented by the groups, which are today as parties in Parliament, should give the people a balanced new constitution. In conclusion, I would like to say and remind you that all this effort being made by exchanging arguments, all this effort being made by meditation on the chances of being accepted, on the possibilities opened for the Revision of the Constitution is not a trivial process. It is not a process that falls short of active political action, vita activa. It is a spectacular action, it is a spectacular reflection of serious problems that define our lives and, above all, of the principle of autonomy, the principle of self-determination, which is satisfied when citizens can and obey rules which they themselves, through their representatives, have established. This is the majesty of democracy, which is far away from every city that publishes miracles or believes in doctrines. That is why it is of great value - and I am ending with these flagrant words - the Dutch saying when it was referring to the Skipper the African one: "Never was less active than when he did nothing. He never felt less alone than when he was with himself." This presupposes creative meditation, which means a negotiation with arguments, which we must do for the sake of democracy. And in our minds we must have that democracy means a constant negotiation, which results in temporary compromises, but it never ceases to be a negotiation of honest policies. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-nine students and students and four educational sessions from the 1st High School of Chalkida. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Follow a rare process in Parliament, the process of Revision of the Constitution. Since 1975, when we have a constitution after post-Multipulation, it has been the fourth time that this process has been taking place. In other words, within forty-five years this rare process has been done four times, which you are watching today, to change the basic law of the state. I wanted here to say that the Constitutional Review Committee did a worthwhile job. This job has been captured in this report you've all taken. Seventy-three Members met in twelve meetings, and we had a hundred sixty - eight interventions to produce this result. The general rapporteur of SYRIZA, George Karugalos, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the Revision of the Constitution is at the highest moment in the city. It is not politically or ideologically neutral. Why are we coming to do this right now? What is the function of Revision of the Constitution? It regulates social and political conflicts that have been mediated at the level of the real constitution. In other words, it reflects the developments of political time in the constitutional flaw. If so, what was the major political event of the previous period? Undoubtedly, the crisis. It is true that the Constitution for the Crisis is not responsible, although there are extreme neoliberal voices that give it responsibility, because it was not sufficiently market-friendly, because it is too social. However, contrary to these voices, the Constitution has been one of the victims of the crisis. Why? Due to the Memorandum of Understanding, a 'parallel' has been applied for the second time in the constitutional history of our country, a set of rules which have been in conflict with the fundamental provisions of the Constitution and at the level of democracy and parliamentaryism and especially at the level of social rights, such as derogations from the parliamentary procedure, laws with an article, unelected Prime Ministers, and in particular this major impact on the conquests of the social state in collective bargaining and social rights. That is why our review proposal has had a double aim: on the one hand, to strengthen democracy, to protect freedoms and rights more effectively, as we tried at the legislative level during our governance, with important areas at the level of equality - I remind you of the cohabitation pact, I remind you of the important changes in the right to diversity at many levels, I remind you of the reforms in terms of the Code of Nationality - but, at the same time, these efforts to shield the Constitution with new guarantees so that in the future we can avoid a new 'parliament'. That is why we have proposed substantial arrangements to guarantee social conquests at work, in health, in the protection of the common, but also in the institutional, procedural counterweights. Not only the introduction of institutions of direct democracy, although they were central to our proposals, but also proposals that strengthened the representativeness of the culture. Always be a Member of the Prime Minister. Do not treat the parliamentary function. Above all, our important proposals for the change of Article 86 and the interpretative declaration on the protection of the price of the political world. And the New Democracy has reacted to the crisis. It also proposed provisions so that the Constitution would, obviously, be adapted in a completely different, opposite ideological and political direction from us. He proposed the constitutionalisation of neoliberalism, by means of the so-called 'golden rule', a debate that has now been abandoned by everyone in Europe, namely the adoption of the rule of balanced budgets, which would undermine any possibility of protecting the welfare of the social state in crisis and any developmentist impulse. These were the proposals for the revision of Article 106. We have in the previous House, the nomination parliament, the prevalence of similar proposals, which would substantially alter the social character of our Constitution, which defines our culture, not just as a formal rule of law, but as a social rule of law. On the other hand, the electoral prevalence of the New Democracy means that the whole is not going to be adopted, but only a part of the positive proposals we have put forward, from this coherent grid of dozens of proposals, which - unlike some aspects of the Chamber, especially the KINAL - have claimed that they were not concerned with the ordinary citizen - they would be very important to him because they would protect wages, health and social protection. Only those provisions that could not afford political costs will be passed on to New Democracy not to support them. This does not mean, however, that the debate before us does not have a political impact. Because it highlights our deep ideological and political differences, which are important for the development of the real constitution. I should like to highlight two points above all in relation to these very important differences. The first was the attempt to work on the constitutional review by the government majority. And the second thing I want to point out is that it can be seen from the positions put forward by the New Democracy in the Review that its ideological backwardness to positions that are not just behind the 2014 Review proposal, but in many cases they are behind the discussions themselves in the 1975 Constitutional Parliament. The concept of regularity and extreme political hypocrisy in the review process has begun, you will remember it, with Mr Mitsotakis' proposal to vote on all parties which will be revised in the first House, to raise a hundred and eighty votes in the proposed Parliament and then, by a simple majority, the next to regulate the content of these provisions. Why didn't anyone in the past have such a plausible idea? Because it is contrary to Article 110 of the Constitution. Article 110 seeks consent, consents on the substance of the Review, that is, it does not want the political forces to coincide only with what provisions will be revised, but also with how they will be revised. That is why the caselaw of both the Supreme Special Court and the Council of State stipulates that the direction of the proposed parliament is binding on it, but cannot alter the direction they have. That is why Mr Mitsotakis' original proposal was not just politically misleading, but also unconstitutional. If consensus were to be ensured by offsetting opposite and incompatible positions, similar agreements would have been in the past when the government majorities and the Capacity opposition did not separate ideologically abysmal as they are today. Sadly, however, with the same perception of playing and not of institutional seriousness, the New Democracy has also moved to the proposed Parliament, with, for example, the question of how the President of the Republic was elected. While there was a general agreement not to interrupt the life of the parliamentary term, New Democracy was removed from the proposal originally supported under the 2014 Review, which was similar to the current SYRIZA proposal. That's where you'd say you'd rethinked it. What, though, happened in the nominated parliament? You voted in favour of a provision for the President of the Republic, the SYRIZA provision, in which you explicitly stated that you no longer agree to this as a trick, as a trick - I will say that, because that is how it is - you can support this House a completely different position. This is not a sign of institutional seriousness. In essence, however, the proposal you have come to concerning the President of the Republic can be elected by a simple majority - not even a hundred or fifty Members - in fact leads to him making him an unscrupulous majority. It is precisely because our proposals relating to the institutional counterweights, which could balance the power of the Prime Minister, have not been introduced with such a proposal, that you are over-intensively strengthening the pre-central character of the country. I hope that similar games will not be made in the critical vote on 25 November. I say this because you have leaked - it can only be the result of a leak - in friendly newspapers, in 'KATHMERINA', for example, that only those proposals which have received positive treatment from the Committee on Review would be put to the vote. This would be directly unconstitutional, because only plenary can assess and vote - whether positive or negative - on the proposals made by the House. As far as I understand it from the debate with the President of Parliament and from what has been discussed in the Conference of Presidents, these thoughts have been abandoned and indeed all the suggestions of the proposed Parliament will be put to the vote on Monday. But it is not so in procedural terms, it is in the essence of our deep ideological differences and it is in the debate on the substance that the ideological regression of the New Democracy, even in relation to its recent self, 2014. Indeed, the proposal of the Review then tabled - with the signatures not only of Mr Samaras, but also of Mr Mitsotakis - was much closer to European legal culture. He proposed, for example, a referendum on a popular legislative initiative, a way of electing a President of the Republic similar to that of our proposal. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, you in the committee voted against, for example, the provision which standardises the ban on discrimination on grounds of sex or sexual orientation. Can you point me out to me a European Right party, apart from the parties of Mr Orban and Mr Salvini, who are against what is now the common place of European legal culture? But obviously your choices in the Constitutional Review reflect your choices as well. Your refusal to vote in favour of an interpretative statement on the religious neutrality of the state, for example, coincides with the attempt to restore the criminalisation of blasphemy against the divine. Here too, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, on the subject of distinguishing roles of the Church and State, it seems your important regression and in relation to the political stigma you had in 1975. What then did the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs and President of the Panagiotis Zepos Academy say? He said: "The separation of Church and State is theoretically more correct, but under the present conditions and due to the tradition that exists, it is difficult to escape from the system at this time." This moment lasts for you forty - five years, but not even this assumption, that the roles of Church and State must be distinguished, you did not want to do in this Review. Why do you insist on defining the Constitution in what language will the Bible be published? Can we have news "Evangelical" in the 21st century? And it's not the only example. You have refused, despite the significant risk to the price of the political world, to incorporate the interpretative statement in Article 86, so that it is clear that bribery falls under the jurisdiction of the natural judge and that it is not in the Minister's job description to 'take them', in the same way that you legislated on unleashing the offences of the 'white collar', the total abolition of the criminal responsibility of bankers - unless they themselves want to forsake themselves - all these unacceptable interventions in the European Criminal Code, which even a form that is not friendly to the Left, the 'FINANCIAL TIMES', as you know, have been denounced. You rejected the proposal in the Constitution for equal pay, for equal work, regardless of age, at the same wavelength of Mr Bruce's proposals to abolish all the legislative proposals we had to protect work. You rejected the proposals for the non-privateisation of water, costing your Member, who considers that water is very cheap in our country and should be expensive. Reject all thoughts of introducing referendums, while your general rapporteur himself reminded Gounari, of the political forefathers of your party, was talking about a referendum from the beginning of the last century. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the ideological signal you have given to the Review is a foreign signal with European legal culture, a foreign language, even with your own European political family, and certainly not what the country needs today. We will try to search for convergence in these provisions of the minimum common denominator by the end. We will insist on the interpretative statement, because the price of the political world demands it. We expect to see, in the wording of the new paragraph 4 of Article 54, the government's commitments to the vote on fraud, even though that is where it has moved in the well-known anti-institutional way, to celebrate for uncertain agreements. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution is the state's highest law and must be dealt with with with the institutional and political seriousness that it needs. Even at the last minute we will expect this from all sides of the Chamber and especially from the government majority. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I am presenting in the Minutes, as we agreed in the Review Committee, the three final versions of the SYRIZA proposals on Articles 3, 86 and 101(2).
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the Parliament, since they have previously participated in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, nine students and students and two educational attendants from the Pierraia Educational Schools 'Praxis and Acts'. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Loverdos, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the plenary session of the proposed parliament on the agenda of the 'Revision of the Constitution' agenda twice and in this House twice more I have tabled my statement and position that, for many years now, no one has been able to draw any more authority from the constitution's prestige. With the fall of the dictatorship, the Constitutional Law branch distinguished from the other branches of legal science, acquired huge political and social authority, and the debates in question were before a large audience. The "Juliana" and the forced resignation of Prime Minister George Papandreou, the dismantling of democracy, the 1974 referendum, the 1975 Constitution, his review in 1986 and the then conflict between New Democracy and PASOK, the successful attempt to overcome the national division, civilisation and constant polarization, in my opinion were the causes of the very great political and social interest that the discussions and the controversies surrounding the Greek Constitution. Many politicians and parties, therefore, tried to take advantage of the impression that the debates on the Constitution caused the citizens. However, ladies and gentlemen, the interest in the opinion of most of the citizens in the Constitution was reduced and the outrages of interest began to be limited to the trials held in the Council of State involving specific parts of society, oligorithm or numerous. This new situation, ladies and gentlemen, I realised when he made his proposals on the Constitution and his institutional proposals, the newly established party of Mr Avramopoulos. These proposals have not been dealt with. Since then, whoever tried to say something about the Constitution, showing it as innovation, did not affect, did not work. However, several attempts have been made since then and until now to get public opinion seconded by the Constitutional Constitutional Review initiatives, but which have fallen void. The last example is that of the former Prime Minister's initiatives. So it must be done by everyone and it must be understood, I repeat, that the prestige of the Constitution is no longer easy to draw. I believe that, in order for citizens to pay attention to the Constitutional reforms, the proposals in question and the proposed changes should concern them. The result of this review shows that they are hardly concerned at all. The work of both the previous, proposing, parliament as well as of the present, I Revision, passed under the radar of public interest. And if the Review did not relate to the vote of the non-Greeks found in Greece, then no one would give even a little of their time to deal with the Review House. And rightly so, since, in addition to Rule 86, almost all the other provisions that are to be revised today relate to matters caused by malnutrition, the dullisation of political leadership and the polarization between them. In other words, we support the view that this Review, as it turns out, will mean that human issues with all their qualities - as a citizen, as commander, as socially weak, as a body of rights, as a member of the common economy - could also be avoided. In a sustainable year 2019 Review that does not affect bureaucracy in administration and justice or that does not touch Article 16, no longer makes sense. As long as we think, ladies and gentlemen, the next Review can take place after nine years. A lot of time lost for Greek women and Greeks. Finally, one finds that our political system also has a talent for the waste of citizens' time. These, ladies and gentlemen, are the main issues relating to or not to a Review, not to false-ideological differences and differences. That's for elsewhere, for other conversations. Fools don't get easy. You don't fish in blurred ideological waters to prove that you're supposed to be doing something. The New Democracy has not heard our suggestion to cancel this shallow Review and propose new for the next House. And since the majority has chosen, then we should, ladies and gentlemen, try to do our best to achieve the best of our duties and choose and vote not only on the best solutions, but also on the best wording of the revised provisions. And here's attention: any mistakes that we make until next Monday will be paid by the lawmaker and ultimately by the citizen. In order to allow any compulsion correction should be made for nine years. And I don't do it at all. The majority of the parliament proposed in the previous one have escaped from Rule 41(5), ladies and gentlemen. While he proposed the abolition of Rule 32(4), i.e. the dismantling of the Parliament on non-election of the President of the Republic, he remained Article 41(5). So, in the new constitution, we will have a completely dead provision. Furthermore, as the President of Parliament said at the beginning of the debate today, by the majority of the Commission this time on the Review of the Constitution, the mistake was made rather than proposing the abolition of Articles 114 and 115 as a whole, which included transitional provisions for the year 1975, the regulatory content of which had been exhausted, proposed to replace Article 114(1) and paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 115. The mistake was obvious and I repeatedly suggested to the majority to correct it, but a voice of oxen in the wilderness! But, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to making a mistake, it will be no matter what we do. That is why we must ignore the relevant part of the distributed report and take into account the fact that on Monday the vote we will have to abolish the whole of Articles 114 and 115. I propose, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that, in order to avoid mistakes, the Scientific Service of the Parliament and the rapporteurs should be involved before the unity of Friday in order to reach concrete wording, which will be considered by the Scientific Service of the Parliament, in order to ensure that we achieve best formalities. Ladies and gentlemen, before I refer to the specific articles that are being proposed to be revised, and, as it seems, there we are going, I would like to make a little reference to the proposed guidelines that the House gives to the revision, as far as the revised provisions are concerned. There are no directions, ladies and gentlemen. This House is bound by the nomination of only the number of articles proposed and the specific paragraphs of those proposed to be revised, but this debate has been very intense in the previous House. It was also done in the Constitutional Review Committee and may be done again in the next few days. Of course, it does not matter very much, but, it seems, these articles which will be revised do not create, because of their wording and the wording proposed, the questions of direction, at least at first glance. Eight articles will be reviewed. And we propose at least two parties, if I remember correctly, to the majority review a ninth. The majority of the members of the Committee on Revision and its chairman have also heard a positive opinion on this proposal. So the government that has a responsibility - I am not saying that it is involved - is involved in the review, which is the case - but, above all, the majority Members of the majority, taking into account the fact that a debate has taken place in the committee, as is apparent from the Minutes, on the revision of a ninth article. What articles, however, are they? Article 32(4) In other words, disconnect the election of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the House. Article 62 on parliamentary immunity. Rule 68 on committees of inquiry, as a right and a minority of Parliament. Rule 86 on the criminal liability of Ministers. Article 96(5) of the Staff Regulations of Officials and the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the European Union. Article 101a on independent authorities. Article 21 on a minimum guaranteed income or, where other than, on any other Article, a revision shall be made by adding such income. Article 54(4) on the vote of the Greeks who are abroad. These are the eight. And the ninth, in plenary session, Rule 73, to include the people's legislative initiative in that too. It is our proposal, I repeat, and SYRIZA, which Members of the New Democracy are discussing. It is not excluded by her rapporteur. And I hope that, in the next few days, we will also have this new political right to be guaranteed in our Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, it is sad to see that from the above eight proposals only that of Article 86 requires a revision of the Constitution. All the rest can be implemented either by an appropriate constitutional practice, such as for the election of the President of the Republic, for which there is such a practice and for the independent authorities, for which such practice needs to be carried out, or by the vote of executives of the Constitution of Laws - militia, minimum guaranteed income, a vote of abstention - or by simply amending the Rules of Procedure of this House and I am referring to Rule 68 of the Rules of Procedure. In other words, all this, which is now being reviewed with certainty, can, apart from Article 86, become part of the rules governing the political agreement and conflict, without a revision of the Constitution. I repeat, however, that the ruthlessness of party leaders, the discomfort of the political system, as reflected in various times, micro-partisanism and constant polarization have so far not allowed it. We are therefore spending a Review of the Constitution and nine years of the Greek people, due to the inability of our political system and our addiction to polarisation. As is clear from the provisions that will be revised, we are, ladies and gentlemen, talking about a point of review from which social, political and, therefore, constitutional tops are lacking. And I repeat, if there were not the so-called vote on the motion for a resolution, the revision of the 2019 Constitution would be politically and socially absolutely invisible. But for it too, it must be stressed that it could be guaranteed by common law, by simple law, if it were to be voted on by two parliamentarians. But distrust here and here in the political parties leads us, as they all show, to a very multitude of constitutional provisions, to serve as a guarantee for the law that will then be passed and the principles of which the intergroup has agreed. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, we will legislate through the Constitution and that is not at all positive at all. We have proposed a very simple provision, but we will vote on what is proposed by the majority, because it is certainly a better solution than leaving our fellow Greeks out of the electorate once again. But what, in the opinion of the Change Movement, should be done in this House? Unfortunately, a few things, ladies and gentlemen, since the majors were judged and rejected in the Proposed House, when the past majority refused to change provisions governing the main issues of administration, justice and non-state, non-profit universities. We have, however, proposed in the previous House to revise provisions concerning the citizens, namely to revise provisions that are a good channel for bureaucracy, administration and justice, so that the citizen can finally cease to be oppressed by these bureaucracy, because that is the reality of the everyday life of Greeks and Greeks. We have proposed, as has been said, that the exclusive deadlines set by the House under its laws should be established constitutionally. Last but not least, the development draft law contains the ministers that they have implemented shorter exclusive deadlines, but both the administration and the courts always take them as indicative and ignored. Therefore, the exclusive deadlines the legislature wants had to be guaranteed so that the courts and administration could not see the time limits in practice as an indication and that the institutions of administration and justice were not deemed to be unlawful. We have proposed that the constitutionality of the laws should be more centralised in order to reduce excessive delays - the citizens concerned with delays - and that increased majority laws, for example those relating to the country's tax system, should be introduced, and that we should abolish the existing tax 'allum' in this matter. We have proposed to change Article 16(2), ladies and gentlemen, of hypocrisy, which is the constitutional foundation for the violation of religious freedom in education. But hypocrites who cut off for religious freedom, when this proposal was made, where it was a majority in the House last night, did so in order not to be heard 'Article 16' and it goes on to think that the next Parliament, that is, from Article 16(2) which regulates this matter, may incur Article 16(5) and change the ban, the exclusion of non-state, non-profit institutions in universities. To change Article 16(5) directly, and to make it possible, with the guarantees of the law, to establish non-governmental, non-profit-making universities. To finally establish in Greece, according to the Anglo-Saxon standards, unwarranted parliamentary control, not to be in parliamentary control such as the current one, which has been in place for decades and is as if there is no. It's really like it doesn't exist. And yet, most of the time, it's not topical. We've lived it in the past five years with particular intensity, but we've been living it with some tension all the time. Provision should be made for the possibility for the citizen in person to support a committee of Parliament, on conditions, in his or her references. And generally, ladies and gentlemen, this Review should finally have, after decades, as its top man, with all his qualities, as a citizen, as a party, as a commander, as a member of the common economy. These proposals were ignored by the majority of the previous Parliament, and we have to limit ourselves to the proposals that they had received in the previous House and now have over a hundred and fifty one Members' votes. I mentioned what it will eventually be, and we will therefore walk like this. We want, however, - and with this thought I am closing down, ladies and gentlemen - at the end of this procedure next Monday, the citizens will have understood what each and every one of us is saying, that the citizens have heard pseudo-ideological controversy that has left a chance to go lost, and that the citizens have heard our own positions which have really been over the problems of the day-to-day man who is afflicted and who is looking at him as if we were here to resolve our personal differences and the problems that our discomfort creates. Our debt, the Members of the Change Movement, feel and believe that we have done so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Mr Loverdos put forward something that was put forward at the beginning of the sitting on a number of motions for resolutions, some of which are referred to in the report to Parliament. On the basis of our decision at the beginning of the meeting, the references to Articles 114 and 115 relating to paragraph 1 of the 114 and paragraphs 1 and 2 of the 115 shall be deemed to have been removed from the proposal. As for the same provisions of 114 and 115 which need to be abolished, this will be done in the debate in the relevant section, not now that we are at the outset. With regard to 41 paragraph 5, which talks about the dismantling of Parliament in the case of a contribution of 32 paragraph 4, which is proposed - we will see in the vote - to abolish it, it will be one of the'remainings' which will remain in the Constitution without force, such as three others - four'relics' of wording in the current Constitution. The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Ioannis Giokas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Since the beginning of the process of the Constitutional Review by the House, we have stressed that its main objective was to strengthen the conditions of governmental and political stability, of political regularity, as it has been heard, in order to ensure the uninterrupted implementation of the sovereign anti-grass policy, was to shield the civil system itself, to become more resilient to trivialisations created by this policy, to shield itself mainly against the popular factor, but also to shield itself against its internal contradictions and sometimes threaten its stability. This was the first and great goal for SYRIZA, who took the initiative in the previous House, but also for the New Democracy, regardless of their individual differences, as well as whatever the extent to which this objective is finally achieved. What is the result of this assessment? Firstly, it comes from the proposals of these parties themselves, which in basic articles - I am not saying in all or most - converging. They don't identify them, but they certainly converge. Secondly, it follows from the fact that with previous constitutional revisions and in particular with the 2001 Review, much adjustments have already been made concerning the capitalist economy based on the current needs of this economy. For example, the process of integration of the country into the Euro-Union framework - Articles 28 and 80 of the Constitution with the interpretative statements - that is, this framework, which brought the memoranda of the anti-grassroots measures, which have been implemented and implemented by all the governments of the New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA. This framework at the level of the Constitution does not call into question anyone other than the JRC, so what remains is urgent for you on the basis of your own logic is the corresponding adjustments in the field of the political system, the way in which the urban state, its governments, obviously taking into account the experience of the years of the crisis and the memorials, the triumphs caused in the political system, which we of course did not want to be just trifles. We would like it to be much more. During the debates on the Constitution and the Constitutional Review in Parliament it has been heard many times - and today this has been heard by all parties - the following question: What was the resistance of the Constitution in the period of crisis and the period of the memorandum? What is the real meaning of this question? Has the Constitution effectively protected labour rights? Oh, no. That is not the real point, because no civil constitution can effectively protect people's rights, because even if there is some protection in the Constitution for a number of rights - which we of course also pursue, and that is why we have tabled other proposals - at the same time there are clauses in the Constitution, 'walkers', exceptions, the invoking of public interest and public order, the interpretation of the Constitution based on the participation of the country in the European Union, so that at critical times, when required by the needs of the economy and the power of capital, these rights can be literally thrown into the basket of the unfavourable ones. We saw in the years of the crisis how some barbaric class measures were decided to be constitutional and, in many cases, when it was necessary, it was thrown into the basket of unscrupulous ones and the Constitution itself and its provisions. Many examples from all the governments, including from the exceptional legitimisation procedures which all governments have used up and which were completely out of constitutional terms, to the way the memorandums were adopted again by all governments, in contravention of the increased majority of the Constitution. So elsewhere the answer to the question about the resistance of the Constitution lies to you. You want a constitution that in similar circumstances, which will result in mathematically in the future, to shield the system, to ensure political and governmental stability, because you know very well that what we have lived with the crisis is not definitively and irreversibly in the past. You know well that at this time there are colossal developments worldwide. You know well that despite recovery and a good so-called economic climate, which is naturally achieved on the ruins of rights, assessments made by European and international staff are talking about slowing down the economy, about an imminent crisis, perhaps faster than it was expected, so you know very well that Greece will not remain unaffected in such a case and that no management model or mixture, either the so-called neoliberal neoliberal of the New Democracy or the Social Democratic of SYRIZA, can heed these great deadlocks, so that you are also taking your measures to a constitutional and legislative level for the stability of the rotting political system that will surely be threatened in the future. Of course this objective is not confined to constitutional reform alone. It is an overall goal that goes through government initiatives and the current government as well as the previous governments. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] This common goal, as we have said, results from the convergence of the New Democracy, SYRIZA and Change Movement in a number of articles. For example, it arises from your common position on the question of the independent authorities, which have an essential role in many cases, such as the name and only independent authorities - and as precursors of anti-grassroots political choices, as well as your common position on the issue of the election of the President of the Republic, the disconnection of the election of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the Parliament and the opening of early elections, no matter whether SYRIZA said 'election by the people in the event that the votes are fruitless in Parliament', a proposal which we characterised as very dangerous and voted on by the SYRIZA Members themselves in the House, and that is why it did not pass, while the New Democracy said 'election by a less majority, not just a hundred and a half a Member'. Your original plan even said by draw, which, of course, you withdraw and, in the event of a level playing field, the elder's dominance. This whole proposal, however, to decouple the election of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the Parliament and the announcement of the elections was essentially a joint proposal, even with different versions. That is why the Rule 32 in the previous House also raised a large majority, more than an eighty-eight Members, and today it can be reviewed by a simple absolute majority of fifty-five Members. Government political stability is also trying to achieve it with other proposals, such as, for example, the SYRIZA proposal - and it is, because it will be put to the vote - on Article 84 of the Constitution and on rejecting motions of censure which are voted on, if there is no agreement on a new Prime Minister, if there is not a new parliamentary majority, and it is an article that exists in the German constitution, which clearly leads to the constitutionalisation of minority governments. A similar proposal was made by the New Democracy for stable four-year governmental cycles, rejected by the previous parliament and leading from another way to the same result. You therefore want a more authoritarian constitution, which will more effectively shield the power of capital. This authoritarianism has too many faces and too many versions. Secondly, this objective was mainly concerned with SYRIZA, who also had the initiative in the previous House, and it was the constitutional reform to be an alibi to its policy as a government. He put forward proposals in the opposite direction to his government. For example, he put forward proposals to protect collective agreements and strikes, when in the collective agreements, as a government, he maintained almost all the main axes that undermine them, with more fundamentally the determination of the minimum wage by the respective Minister of Labour, and the strike brought the law on the strike, '50%+1', which is now continuing and expanding the New Democracy. Of course, you have brought other proposals, which you have painted pro-famous, while in fact they represent the modern-processed capital strategy. For example, your proposal for a decent living, the minimum guaranteed income, such as the New Democracy version, which essentially constitutionalises the logic of the recycling of poverty, the downward equity, the logic of "the poor to pay for the poorer" and, indeed, this is something you can see as a modern, modern version of the social state. Defiance, however, means that people live on the basis of modern needs and on the basis of the possibilities offered by the era, science and technology, and not the management of extreme poverty, and at the same time you have not dared to touch Article 107, an article 'job', which goes from Constitution to Constitution, which guarantees the privileges of armament and foreign capital. The third objective of the Constitutional Review is the so-called morality, the price of the political system, to restore the authority of the political system in the eyes of the people, which has been shaken - and rightly - over all these years of the crisis and the memoranda. This moralization effort combines with the theory of fashioning in the years of the crisis, that for the crisis it is the morality, a theory that acquiescences the economic relations themselves, the market, the competition, with which the crisis and the takeover and involvement are inherent. In this context of moralisation, the proposal for Article 86 and the Law on the liability of ministers, which, while the people's demand - we recall - but also the motto of political forces was that of completely abolishing it, with the proposals made by the SYRIZA and by the New Democracy, this law is not completely abolished, even with certain improvements, such as the abolition of the reduced limitation. It is the interpretative statement proposed by SYRIZA, so that certain offences are directly subject to justice. These, indeed, leave Article 16. What remains in Article 86? It maintains its basic core, namely the assignment to the House of inquiries and public Prosecutors, that the decision to set up a pre-examination committee for the prosecution, the withdrawal of criminal prosecution, will have it again - and with the new version of Rule 86 - the individual parliamentary majority and thus will continue to play the various political games we have seen played at times. The experience of the Committee of Inquiry, which is under way, with the requests for exception, which we have in fact voted against, which are in fact incompatible with the composition and functioning of a parliamentary committee and with all this degeneration which is under way, shows the deadlocks of the current framework and the need for a complete abolition of this article. If you look at the offences investigated by the pre-examination committee for Mr Papagelopoulos and with the new version of Rule 86, these offences will once again be within Parliament's competence: Abuse of power, breach of duty and so on. We voted in the House to change Rule 86. We had made it clear, however, since this Parliament has been fully abolished, and from that we will also determine our final vote. In addition to Article 86, as a JRC, however, in the constitutional review process, we have tabled a number of proposals for the protection and expansion of popular and democratic rights, the trade unions, the sovereign rights of the country, to abolish a series of anachronisms that exist in the Constitution, without, of course, being illusory that there can be a democratic or progressive constitution within the current power of capital. Such examples were, among other things, our proposals for the revision of Articles 27 and 28 of the Constitution, which, today, allow the exercise of the country's sovereign rights to be restricted. We have proposed that the provisions which guarantee the supremacy of European Union law should be reviewed against national law and, indeed, against the Constitution itself. We have proposed to change the provisions that allow foreign military bases to be installed in the country, which, of course, both SYRIZA and New Democracy and other parties have rejected, because you inspire what the Minister of National Defence of New Democracy said a few days ago, that in the past years the Greeks have bleeded to the side of the Americans and NATO and will do the same in the future. For this unacceptable statement, the provocative statement, which turns back many years, was unspeakable from all the other parties. You have also rejected our proposals for the effective safeguarding of a number of social rights, the amendment of Article 18, so that the country's mineral wealth, social goods, public areas in mountainous, saint, archaeological sites can in no way be granted to third parties for exploitation. You refused to adopt or overrun with semi-metres, even some overripe demands of urban modernisation, such as the complete separation of State and Church, which has been launched for two centuries in some countries and has been carried out in other decades. And when we talk about full separation, we mean full separation rather than the caricature that SYRIZA brought. We mean the removal of the prevailing religion in the Constitution, which has legal and ideological consequences, as we also mean the abolition of paragraph 2 of Article 16, which states that education must promote religious conscience. You have even denied the abolition - what I said before - of certain 'job' articles existing in the Greek Constitution, such as Article 48, which refers to a reasonable internal enemy or Article 107, concerning the constitutional safeguarding of the privileges of armaments and foreign capital. You rejected all of this without a debate. Not, of course, that we expected you to accept them, because your strategy, your strategy and the current rulings and the previous ones, the rulings yesterday, do not even fit the slightest discrepancies from this policy, nor even the elementary changes of urban modernisation. We will bring these proposals back and now, at least as far as the articles to be revised are concerned, knowing, of course, that you will again reject them because your own logic for constitutional revision is in a completely different direction and your joint rejection of the JRC's proposals is an element of your policy. We will try through the debate to show that the defence and expansion of people's rights, in order to match these with the modern needs, requires deeper changes, radical changes in the economy, power, overthrowing today's constitution. It is assumed that the developments that will be under way in the coming years will cause new triumphs, new cracks, new instability in the urban political system. We say that this instability must not only be feared, but must make use of it, expand it as far as it goes through and for the benefit of the people, in order to prevent measures at its expense, divert what it can, create breaches and, above all, create a connection and conditions for a more comprehensive conflict with the current rotten system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u15	Thank you too, Mr. Gioka. The reason is the special speaker from the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Hetas. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the national interest the Greek Solution is taking an active part in the top parliamentary reform process of the Constitution. We have developed our main proposals for major issues relating to referendums, the need for active involvement of citizens in the governance of the country, the vote on the results and the role of the President of the Republic. There are no anachronistic provisions and populism in the Constitution. The revision of the country's Charter should form the basis on which we will build the answers to the serious problems of Greek citizens. But through this process it became clear to me that sterile confrontation has now passed on to the political DNA of the New Democracy, SYRIZA and the Change Movement - PASOK. Unfortunately, many times - usually empty seats by MPs - witnessed micro-political classifications aimed at creating impressions about such a serious issue. With the Constitution, however, we should not be experimenting. Through the Revision of the Constitution, the country's city is reconstructed and the state is remodeled in its fundamental features. But what are we waiting for? What is the Greek citizen expecting from the Review of our country's highest rule of law? That's the question. Firstly, real will to improve the articles of the Constitution aimed at strengthening citizens' rights and society itself. Secondly, the amendment of the constitutional provisions should aim at the final aim and result in the problems facing the citizen being solved. Thirdly, real dialogue with all parties, far from micro-political purposes and interests. Fourthly, an exchange of views and arguments with a view to finding the best and not a theoretical demonstration of legal knowledge. Fifthly, the involvement of the citizen himself in the revision process, so that it is not something foreign and something indifferent to him. Sixteen and last but not least, a review that would turn to the citizen himself and aim to decentralise powers. But what have we seen? A constitutional review without daring, but more thorough, since the previous parliament did not dare to touch fundamental articles. This means that this House can only modify what the previous Parliament has sent it. Even during the preparation of the constitutional provisions, it was heard that the revision process should be stopped and that is why the articles that took the green light for revision are very few and thus this revision will ultimately not have any practical advantage. We are wasting time, that is, since this review is finally done for the eyes of the world. Indeed, critical articles of the Constitution that deal with the start of the same review by the citizens, the establishment of the constitutional court, the abolition of the notorious Article 86 of the Constitution on the preferential treatment of ministers, private universities, whether they were not even qualified for revision or considered a reviewer, but only in a few paragraphs. But the importance of public participation has not been recognized either by opening up power to the citizens. A characteristic example of this is the election of the President of the Republic directly by Greek citizens. The President of the Republic is the supreme ruler of the Greek state, he is the regulator of the regime, he is the Chief of the Armed Forces. It is worth giving him the authority he deserves, both as an institution and as a representative of the country. The proposal of the Greek Solution is stable and is as follows: The President of the Republic is directly elected by Greek citizens following proposals from candidates, from ten MPs or from thirty thousand citizens. It will be a disastrous mistake, ladies and gentlemen, to go to an election of the highest institution of the State, the President of the Republic, on the basis of only the choice of the Prime Minister in question. It's not right. It alters the meaning of democracy. During the Constitutional Review - I said this to the Committee - in 1986, which considered whether the President of the Republic could appoint the Prime Minister of the country, a PASOK Member had said sceptics: "The President of the Republic in question cannot appoint a Prime Minister." We said, however, that we should not get to the other end, that the Prime Minister with his government appointing a President of the Republic his gardener, his friend or friend, or the one who would give him various ex-institutional centres of power. The vote on the results, another extremely important issue, of course, is not a new one. We all agree that the time has finally come to recognise the right to vote on Greek expatriates, that is, self-evident. However, the whole issue is commonly characterised by a legal complexity, which is greater than that which one might assume by the naked eye. Personally, I would like to believe that we will all play with open papers on this sensitive subject. Let's go, ladies and gentlemen, to the private universities. This is the big loser's chance. The establishment and operation of private universities would achieve, on the one hand, the repatriation of hundreds of thousands of Greek scientists and students, on the other hand, the attraction of thousands of foreign students, who would study in a country with a particular culture and sought cognitive objects. If that is what Great Britain can do, since Cyprus has been able to do so, I do not understand why Greece cannot do so. The only obstacle is the inability to overcome the modesty that characterizes the political forces. It is incomprehensible in the 21st century that the study of tens of thousands of Greeks in private universities and recognized by foreign universities, while at the same time denying the revision of Article 16. The opportunity we throw into the trash is huge. The turnover of private universities amounts to unthinkable figures, in billions of euros. For example, with revenues of 3 billion from the private universities with our pilot Cyprus - probably for Greece to be higher the number - we would not have to discover patents to reduce, for example, HISPIA. So that's a long lost chance. As regards the dispersion of power, in Greece the dispersion of power is an inappropriate objective. However, it should not be an inappropriate objective, because the dispersion of power is successfully applied to many - not to say to most - countries in the civilised world. In the Greek Solution we firmly believe that the dispersion of power is the best way to limit corruption and complexity. The country needs a broad dispersion of power. Is it not, then, worth wondering why this dispersion of power is not taking place? Where does this power spread stumble? Does the refusal of the central authority to share power? Did not some want and do not want to accept limiting their own authority? So the dilemma is centralized or diffuse power? The Greek Solution is clearly against centralism and in favour of decentralisation. But not just administrative bureaucratic decentralisation, but the diffusion of the decision-making centre itself. This disease of the review process was, I believe, constitutional populism. That is what we have identified from the committee meetings. This is a political virus, let me be allowed to express it, which in its early stages usually appears in the innocent form of constitutional rhetoric, the unadulterated promises, but which do not lead anywhere. Unfortunately, we did not avoid this whole scene of political mist, where everyone tried to be good at his party audience. The party I represent, the Greek Solution, did not have the opportunity to place itself in the previous House. That is why I considered my duty during the work of the Review Committee to develop what we believe to be a Greek solution. We are against globalisation and over-concentration of powers and in favour of a national society with identity and autonomy. We are against a loose passive society and we are in favour of a dynamic society. We are against the image of the citizen who obeys state power and in favour of the active citizen involved in the formulation of decisions concerning him. We are against centralised power and in favour of decentralisation of power. We believe in a dynamic democracy that will actually express the popular will and not a fossil democracy that cannot meet the demands of the times and the will of the Greek people. This Review, however, - the fourth one - has unfortunately not been able to stand up to the circumstances. He was unable to go over and stay away from political purposes and constitutional populism. Finally, we do not seem to have learned any of the mistakes of the past and while we are preparing to celebrate the two hundred years from the release of the Turkish yoke, how much political will is there to get us free from the restriction of globalisation? Revision of the Constitution is a fact. The Greek solution of honoring the Greeks, who "anointed" party of the Greek Parliament, presents essential proposals for the reform of the constitutional provisions. We are proposing solutions with anthropocentric nature, solutions that have the dominant popular will and the strengthening of democratic institutions, so that even if there are a lot of things to be done, this constitutional review of the principle and the capital for the active participation of citizens in the common for a truly favoured society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Heta. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, thirty-seven students and students and two of their teachers from the 2nd General School of Eleusis (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We're closing down with the special speakers, calling Mrs. Angeliki Adamopoulou in Step 25.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the openness of the constitutional review falls with the weekly marathon in plenary which starts today and, of course, with the vote which will ratify the will of this House at the end of the day. We therefore wish a good course in the last act of a project that has been going up the parliamentary stage for about a year and which has been employing society and politics for quite a long time. How the work of Revision will end as the top moment of the civilization, as a top parliamentary process and what will be his footprint in the state institutions of our democracy, but also in the most important aspects of the daily life of the citizen, it is better to leave it in the coolest and most informed eye of the historic future. This does not mean, however, that no significant conclusions have been drawn so far, even if they are not as original, as many colleagues have noted at committee meetings. Such a conclusion, for example, has to do with the famous approach to the missed opportunity. What does she say? That, in other words, while the conditions are mature and require valuable areas in our charter and in a substantial and symbolic way, the review proposals have moved in rather shallow waters. Over the last four decades, almost ever, the situation has not been suited to 1975 as long as the last ten years. And this parallelism has to do with the fall in the standard of living of the citizens and the simultaneous loss of government and parliamentary independence in planning the political agenda and reducing individual rights and freedoms, which under the doctrine of "law and order" creates conditions of security and protection of public order, and ultimately the essential aim is to strengthen the prerogatives of the most harsh and parasitic oligarchy, the oligarchy of capital that shrinks social rights, which is seducating the dignified living of the majority. The difference with that period is that in 1975 was the beginning of a new era, much more than in 2019. A new era, not necessarily free from past weights, but certainly much more hopeful than the previous one. At least that's what it looked like. On the contrary, in 2019, we continue to measure almost a decade of attraction for citizens. The different indicators are either at a drop or enjoy a very short temporary and often pivotal rise. The economy is still on paths much more bleak and the famous exit from the memorials is a phrase without real meaning. What are we talking about, what relaunching the economy and what new era, when we are still committed to suffocating future surpluses that deprive us of any serious prospect of recovery? So this blindness, destiny, shows exactly where the disease of the crisis hit us most at a level of perceptiveness and acceptance. The battlefield of expectations has fallen so badly, when one of the components of our lives is temporarily shifted from minus 100 to minus 99, we end up dealing with it with hasty incomprehensible celebrations. So other similar behaviours prove that ultimately the post-traumatic shock of the crisis has not just left us but is present and strong. Returning to lost bet or missed opportunity, then, the comparison is fatal. The 1975 Constitution was also a child of a long crisis - another, of course, crisis - and rightly considered a very good progressive and modern for the time of the Constitution that reflected a genuinely new era. The question is: Since 2019, could such a Constitution arise? Of course, if we were, in fact, in an orbit of hope for the future, or if we really wanted to find ourselves on such an orbit. The review is, moreover, a form of polling of its time. People or simply technical revisions can ultimately be attributed to two things: the first is that we have gone well so far as a state and therefore only need small interventions. The second is that we have not done so well, but that the necessary strength is lacking and the political will necessary for sincere and deep areas and that the substance is more of an impression and less of interest. And since we all know that we have not done well, the second possibility is rather certain. Exceptions are inconsistent with the Review. It is not satisfactory because three hundred votes will not take any proposal. A few seem to have great support and, probably, even fewer will eventually get an eighty votes. But neither does the rightful one expect to see anything braver, nor the spirit of the Constitution itself. Of course, sobering was in the committees and political culture and respect for the interlocutors. This is certainly worth highlighting. However, the main issue has not arisen, since the wider consensus that our Constitution wants and that is appropriate to this top parliamentary procedure has not been seen in the context of the wider consensus. There have been excellent and creative discussions, and scientific and political, we have all improved our legal training, and we have been better informed of each other's views and arguments, but to that extent we have all been better informed. In practical terms, it did not appear available for approaches or for substantial consultation. So we may have avoided war, but we have not avoided or escaped trenches. It is another thing to be consistent in its ideological orientation and principles - which, if we are not - should be able to create walls of rigidity and denial at all. In this respect, ladies and gentlemen, let me say that the Group of the European People's Party has set out and set a good example for Parliament. We have supported and supported proposals that benefit the citizen and reject those that harm him, without ideological strangles and without obsessed. In most of the revised provisions we have our own coherent proposals, but in the committee, we have often shared concerns both from the New Democracy and SYRIZA and, ultimately, from the point of view of consensus and creativity. Unfortunately, neither the New Democracy nor SYRIZA paid it back, not in Mera25 but in the same, the top parliamentary procedure. And it is not a question of compromise in each party's ideas. It is the same logic and spirit of consensus that must govern the spirit of the parliamentary procedure itself. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, in today's day we see that citizens are not interested in the Review. And that is very sad and worrying for this reason: Would you believe someone in 2009 if he told you that in ten years the Constitutional Review will pass into the top of the news? Of course not. Today, however, we do not just believe him, but we do not do anything to deny him. But this attitude also has an explanation. The many people have ceased to hope that both the constitution's prestige and the ability of traditional parties to surprise him positively. The Constitution sees it for years weakened by a state which does not assume its constitutional responsibilities and which, unfortunately, treats it as a pure or, above all, as a political text. Traditional parties see people doing what they have always done. Unfortunately, it has nothing to expect from this negatively predictable regime, the present Greek and Greeks, and that is why it is not concerned. So when we accept, ladies and gentlemen, that the common law forms and forms a moral one, much more we must accept it for the Constitution. The Constitution is not just a political and regulatory text but also an ethical one. So it tells us what must be done, but also in what spirit. So it is de facto deeply ideological in two respects: it is shaped by ideologies and it forms the same ideologies. For this very reason, it is the wrong approach to see the Constitution only as a state statute. We must also weigh on the following: we live in a world that runs at glossy speeds, which keeps us following developments. This therefore makes the work of the own legislative update or intervention more difficult. But because - and quite rightly so - the Constitution has anticipated self-protecting against opportunistic and reckless revisions, it is even greater the burden of this House's responsibility to secure a Constitution, which not only monitors current developments, but provides for and prevents the future. We therefore have a deep debt to provide for the future of the country and the citizens from now on and not to wait for the next Review. That is why we are seeing the procedure in a spirit of consensus. Of course, we want to see as much and fuller guarantees of individual rights, and above all of social rights, of the quality of the culture and of the institutions. Our proposals are moving in the spirit of a progressive and democratic review, with, above all, strengthening the social rule of law, with more and more direct participation by the citizens in the initiatives, overthrowing the unacceptable immunity regime of MPs and ministers, with full separation of states and Church, with disconnection, of course, of the election of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the Parliament and from early elections, by voting to the civilian population, to the non-national electors, with more equality, more social rights, with simple analogue and better direct and European democracy. We are therefore committed to presenting our proposals in plenary in the next few days, as we have already set them out in committee in detail, and we will take advantage of our efforts to reach honest agreement and consensus, as we have already done so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u19	First of all, let me inform you that 50 Members have been written. With a calculation we've done, the default time to run out the list is around 23:00. In view of the fact that speakers will be registered every day in every new section, we cannot, if some have left, take them the other day. That is why the President-in-Office is going to be asked in the last two hours to extend the sitting a little while and to get rid of the list so that no Member can remain complaining that he has not spoken. The floor has been requested, starting with the flow of parliamentary representatives, by Mr Stylianides. I would ask the Parliamentary Representatives to tell me about when they want to talk, to change them with colleagues. In the first quadrant, which, as you know, is alternating, is Mr. Ploris, Mr. Papaliou, Mrs. Keftrid and Mr. Delis. Mr. Stylianides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the crisis we have experienced over the last decade, the biggest since World War II, was not born in Greece. He was born in the United States of America after the fall of "LEHMAN BROTHERS" and the issue of a inflationary dollar and exported to Europe, with the willingness then of Greece, targeting us, povertying us but also, at the same time, energizing us. We have been irresponsible on our own sole responsibility. We have, however, been indicted not only for what was to blame, but also for what was to blame for others. We have tried hard, seeing our economy shattered, our lives changing, our independence limited. We, however, endured as a people and as a nation, and now we come out of the storm, though deeply hurt. We do not owe it to our state - and now we see it clearly - by disguising all those who have never been able to realize how it is often in a problematic and slow-moving state, to nurture such a successful and multi-multiple nation, whose radiation draws it not only from its time, that is to say from its deep historical cultural root, but also from its proud and often - an honorable people. Ladies and gentlemen, during these years, while the state collapsed, Greek society remained standing thanks to three main pillars that regenerated modern Greece: family solidarity, material and mental support, as well as the spiritual guidance of the Orthodox Church, as well as the effective action of the householded local government. Where the state did not work, there the three institutions were effective. This difficult, internationally and nationally, period has undeniably put our classic constitutional institutions on trial. The resistance of our national constitution has been tested. The dividing line of power distinctions has often been blurred. The areas of politics, the market and technocracy have been devastated, creating the need for a new - horizontal - separation of powers, which will restore the system of controls and balances of our democracy. The reference to the people of Europe, as provided for by the constitutional principle of popular sovereignty, has been limited. This has led to the resurgence of citizens' confidence in politicians, resulting in extremes fleeing. Hard social conquests have been tested, such as labour rights, education, health and individual freedoms, such as the property, with the ENPIA. An extraordinary law has been established on the need with memoranda of superlegislative character and often with a supranational starting point - such as the Troika - which has even tested the resistance of the provisions of our own constitution. The national and European priority to avoid uncontrolled bankruptcy with disastrous consequences has made us reconcile with political decisions and legislative procedures completely unknown to our legal culture. In this sense, the constitutional review, which began along with our exit from the long-term and multi-level crisis, had to be a unique opportunity for a new start to return to the era of a strong national self-confidence. This was the meaning of the broad consensus offered by Kyriakos Mitsotakis to the Prospective House for a major change in the articles of the Constitution. Unfortunately, the majority of the parliament proposed did not respond to this opportunity. SYRIZA, as shown by the contributions of the previous period, sought the theme restriction and ideologicalisation of the review process. So, today, we are called upon to manage a limited, a poor, one fundamentally mutilated Review. It was rejected by the then majority series of articles proposed by the New Democracy, which relate to: Firstly, by improving the quality and effectiveness of democracy itself, such as Article 2(2) on the European orientation of the country, Article 29(2) on the control of electoral expenditure, Articles 32, 33, 35, 37 and 41 on the better functioning of the civil society, articles on the good lawmaking and the effective functioning of justice, as well as on restoring the credibility of the political system. Secondly, by modernising provisions of our economic constitution, we could give a new impetus to the real economy, ensuring growth for all. Thirdly, with the revision of Article 24(1) of the Constitution for Climate Change, paragraph 2 for the environmental balance and paragraph 3 for active town planning, as well as the fundamental article 16 mainly for the breaking of the state monopoly in higher education, which could make Greece an international educational centre, truly creating a new source for the country's GDP and thus strengthening our international cultural and educational intervention. Only for Article 16 do I regard the forthcoming constitutional revision as a lost opportunity because of the country's ideological forces. Greece is bleeding into scientific brains, while countries around them claim a share of the international educational market. Turkey, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Romania, Hungary attracts thousands of students to private universities. Cyprus has a significant share of its GDP in education, which has already exceeded 5%. Over two million students study outside their country, which is close to 3% - it has already exceeded it - expanding the education market by 7% a year, with tuition fees exceeding 30 billion dollars a year. Great Britain has over one million eight hundred thousand British and European students, but only five hundred twenty - five beds. In 2015 - I give you an example, see what we are losing - in London was spent on student accommodation of €4.8 billion, which blew up building activity, with absolutely positive consequences both on the economy and on employment. In the United States donors gave more than $24.4 million to universities, which annually win over $1 billion for rights to exploit their inventions. The entry of China, Socialist China, on the international educational market, is also interesting as part of the Belt and Road strategy. It has already become the third most popular student destination in 2016, with over four hundred forty thousand students from ninety-five countries. Beijing created five hundred "Comphoukios" Institutes in a hundred forty two countries to learn the Chinese language. And for those who find, possibly, an excuse in size, I mention that the small Cyprus already has more than seventy nationalities in its private universities, creating from the zero educational tradition, while thousands of distinguished Greek foreign scientists see their homeland sinking into the veil of ideology. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the low expectations that have been created, I believe that our committee has managed to relive it, and I hope it will be completed in the plenary which has begun. Our first success was to establish a climate of cooperation, national understanding and real dialogue between the political parties, despite the different, in many respects, approaches. At the same time as in Parliament's adjoining chambers the conflicts were intense and noisy, in the Committee on Revision, the rapporteurs and Members discussed with coolness, lucidity and responsibility, they debated constructively and at crucial points they managed to meet. Discussions were concluded in twelve meetings within a month and a half. Dialogue went beyond seventy hours and became a total of sixty - eight interventions, disgusting those who found the time of the review. The MPs have participated and debated democratically more than other review procedures, which lasted from three to seven months. However, what is of great added value is the final result that this top institutional process today delivers to plenary. The Review Committee has sometimes come up with a simple and sometimes increased majority, with seven main points of the proposed constitutional changes, which relate to eight provisions, and perhaps nine to the end of the debate. In particular: Firstly, he proposed a minimum guaranteed income system in Article 21(1) to support the Greek family, which proved to be the most powerful cell of Greek society during the crisis. Secondly, it upgrades Parliament, by making it possible for the opposition to Rule 68 with a proposal of ten Members and a hundred and twenty present to set up committees of inquiry, which it is developing into a powerful tool of parliamentary control, thereby restoring the principle of controls and balances. Thirdly, it restores citizens' confidence in politicians by limiting parliamentary immunity to Article 62 only in the performance of their duties and the abolition of the amortisation deadline in Article 86(3), which equates ministers criminally to ordinary citizens. Fourthly, it equates the military with the other judges in Article 96(5), shielding their independence, according to the Council of Europe. Fifthly, it facilitates the emergence of the independent authorities in accordance with Rule 101a, by establishing for their election instead of unanimity or four fifths, by a majority of three fifths of the Conference of Presidents. Sixth, it separates the election of the President of the Republic from the parliamentary elections, i.e. stops the work of electing the President of the Republic, which led to extortion in the ballot, providing that he is elected by an absolute or a majority in Article 32(4). Thus, it ensures governmental stability and respect for the popular verdict. Seven, it facilitates the vote of the homosexuals in Article 54(4), where it gives a constitutional protection shield to the forthcoming decisions of the intergroup, which we all hope will benefit. Enforcement of the voting facility justifies universal Hellenism, increases Greece and makes the Greek Parliament an expression of not only the people but also the nation. I dare say, Mr Loverdo, that we are ready to respond to the debate that took place during the committee on an eighth point concerning the popular legislative initiative, in which, as far as I know, both political groups have agreed, both with SYRIZA and KINAL.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u21	That would be very positive.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u22	Finally, we heard a good word, Mr. Catrugale!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u23	That's very positive.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u24	This review, ladies and gentlemen, could - and had to - have changed more and better. At some point, however, we all thought that nothing would change. In the end, however, the joint effort, the high scientific and political level of dialogue, the climate of understanding and composition, which prevailed in the committee, have given us results far above our original expectations. That is why I would like to sincerely thank all my fellow Members, all the parties, all the rapporteurs, all the Members who have tried to achieve the common goal. Ladies and gentlemen, such as the citizens' vote is the top time for democracy, and so is your vote, the vote of Members, during the revision of the Constitution, is the top time for parliamentism. That is why I ask you to vote on our committee's proposal with a look not in the next election but in the next generation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u25	MEP Mrs Anastasia Gara calls for a short-day absence from abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u26	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for the Environment and Energy, Economic, Development and Investment, the Protection of the Citizen, Labour and Social Affairs, Justice, Home Affairs, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy and Rural Development and Food have tabled a draft law on 15-11-2019: "Freedom of the energy market, modernisation of the PPC, privatisation of the PPA and support for the RES". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Loverdos, what are you asking for?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, please give me the floor for thirty seconds to correct one of my omissions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u30	You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u31	Mr Stylianides addressed us here in plenary and thanked the members of the committee. I have failed to thank him on behalf of my party for the way in which he ran the work of the Commission on Revision of the Constitution and, above all, on one point: why he accepted our proposal, which he also enriched, namely the vote on bringing the provisions into a structured list so that there would be no mistakes. This list has also been corrected in the debate. He also voted for the proposals from all the parties and the Independent Members, namely those motions, Mr President, which had not drawn up fifty signatures in order to obtain official status. That was an initiative that I do not remember before, which is why we thank him in particular.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Ploris, Papalis, Kefalidou, Delis, then Mr.Villardos, Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, then Mr. Levanos, Skourikos, Tragakis, Andrianos, as well as Mr. Kamines, Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement. Mr. Plori, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it really is very important and very valuable that a Member should speak at such a top point, which is the moment of the constitutional revision. For my part, I would also like to thank the President of the Commission, Mr Stylianides, for the opportunity to develop all positions with exhaustive dialogue, as well as all the rapporteurs-general - and our own rapporteur, Mr Javara, and all the other parties - who have taken the blame for this whole debate. Today we are talking about the principle of constitutional revision, we can talk a little more generally than the issues that are in the revised process and see all this operation which has taken place within the committee. Indeed, it is very important that the constitutional review enables us to discuss deeply political, ideological issues, where the lines exist among the parties, of course, in a social reality that we all experience, and, if you like, from the lights of current publicity, which often does not allow us to develop with a clear reason, such as those relating to constitutional reform. While the expectations, which started for this constitutional review, were very low - in the sense that since the central provision of Article 16 was not revised, especially on our own side, we thought there was a risk that it would be another lost Review, as we could say that it was largely done with the previous Revision of the Constitution - eventually there are some central areas that we should not underestimate. I will, in my view, raise the four central issues which have been developed by the review process. Subject: For the first time we are debating that the election of the President of the Republic is completely disconnected from ensuring the government in Parliament, namely from the risk that the country will go to elections. This was, indeed, a great incision, because we are being given the opportunity to elect a President of the Republic. We must go to fewer majorities than they needed. On the other hand, however, there is a stability in the government of the country, which knows that it does not have this factor, of the election of the President of the Republic, as a factor to continue to be in the government. At some point it would be very important for the debate to open up that we want governments that are going to run out of their entire mandate and not just to be exhausted if they have lost the declared one. Even - if you want - and this social and national reason I do not know whether it has benefited from stability and the presence. It's a first step. The second major reform is that for the first time the Constitution enables the minority to be able to carry out committees of inquiry. It is an important concession to the majority, because this way from tomorrow, when the Constitution is passed next week, there will be the possibility for the present Minorities to set up committees of inquiry on issues that might arise in this governance. It is a great and bold concession made by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis that it gives the possibility of this top parliamentary control as well in Minority. Thirdly, there is now an outline of the fact that there is no longer any privileged limitation, the time-limit - which is badly said, but this is the picture that exists in the world - of ministerial offences. This can create disciplinary issues along the way. However, if we put the 'bridge' on the one hand the impunity conditions which, on the other hand, were to secure and operate with a sense of responsibility from the Minister, the glossary is in favour that we do not want this privileged regime to exist for the Minister. The Member of Parliament is also being restricted solely to his duties as a Member of the European Parliament. Because I will have the luck of addressing these issues as a special rapporteur, I will refer to the unity in which it exists. The last important element that exists throughout this process is that, in combination with the debate we have in order to vote on, we also have a constitutional amendment, so that we do not have constitutional matters. Any chances lost? Opportunities lost. The opportunity has been lost in Article 16, which I shall put it from another parameter. I think that many times we are wronging our own argument as a liberal party, when we get to reason with what revenue the country can have from the universities. The main reason for defending that there must also be non-profit-making non-state universities in the country is freedom. As the citizen may have the freedom to go to a private clinic instead of a public hospital, as we have the opportunity to send our children to private schools respectively, that is the argument. There is no serious opposite argument to tell us why this part of freedom should not be given to higher education, even if it did not bring 1 euro to the Greek economy. There is no point in saying that education will not be allowed to be given to non-State institutions. The opportunity has also been lost for the changes we could have had in environmental matters, in order to ensure the environmental process as well, but also to have a clear landscape. In conclusion, I shall refer to other things that we have achieved. What we have achieved is also what will not be reviewed, and here is the deep ideological battle on many issues, but I will stay on one that will be discussed tomorrow. It's Article 3. Article 3 for us is a great success, ensuring that the next 10 years do not change. It is an article that created no problem in the state’s own function and, respectively, religious freedom. What was really implied was to create a state against the social values that exist where, in fact, there would be no religious marriage as a type, not all the mysteries that exist as a type. That is why it was important for us. In any case, it was a process that led to a good result. We invite you to vote and we are happy that we will still say "in the name of the Holy, Omousi and Indivisible Trinity" in the preamble to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u34	Amen! My colleague, George Papaliou, has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the initiative to revise the current constitution is linked to the need to formulate stables so that the country can be shielded, so that it does not fall back into bankruptcy and the grand memoranda, but also to the need to have a flexible basic framework of constitutional rules that allows constitutional institutions to adapt to modern changing conditions. The Greek Constitution is strict and is subject to review in two phases. Since the Constitution is the main law of the state, wider consents are required for its review, which in turn presupposes and entail compositions and duration. This is also reflected in the review procedure which extends two parliamentary periods, namely the consensus to last for two Bulgarians, where there may also be different majorities as in this case. At the same time, each Review has an ideological political mark, progressive or conservative. The nature of the bond depends not only on the majority parties, but also on the demands of the wider context. The period after the fall of the dictatorship required gradual advances and choices, which were partly reflected in the 1975 Constitution, despite the fact that the country's governance was a conservative party. Today, after the bankruptcy, the memorial loot and then the exit of the country from the memorials, the Revision of the Constitution requires progressive choices that respond to the need to decapitate from imposed Memorandum regulations and burdens, but also to the modern requirements that require progressive, shallow responses. In this Review House, the Revision of the Constitution is completed. The proposed Parliament has passed the articles to be revised and the essential political direction to be taken to them. The question is whether this Review House is bound by the direction of reviewing the articles proposed to be revised or completely free to carry out their revision without taking into account the direction and giving them any content. Revision of the Constitution is a single procedure. In this light, both within the context of the grammar, the systematic terminology and the logic of the Constitution is the first version. As a Review, the two Boulevards constitute one unity. Otherwise for the Review, two Vultures would not be foreseen. The Constitution would be sufficient in one, which would decide according to the order of business, both on the revised provisions and on the direction, their essential content. The proposal for a revision of specific provisions - Articles contains a rationale for an evaluation crisis, a justification for the need to revise it, and therefore defines the direction in which the substantive content of the revision is to be formulated, without specifying the way, the wording of the provisions to be revised. This is also provided for in Article 110(2) of the Constitution, which states: ‘The need to revise the Constitution shall be determined by a decision of the Parliament. This Decision lays down in particular the revised provisions.’ Consequently, the direction of the revised provisions of the Constitution which has been awaited by the Proposed Parliament must, in our view, form the basis of the Review by the Revision House, so that there can also be a wider consensus that requires compositions and duration. The fact that on the two Bulgarians, proposing and revising, majorities are different does not mean that no consensus should be sought. This has been done in such a way, thankfully, to the committee responsible under the responsibility of the governing party. Thus, the New Democracy rejected, on the one hand, the binding of the guidelines for the revised provisions of the parliament proposed and, on the other, rejected self-evident proposals of the Opposition, for example, the aim of the election of the President of the Republic with the broadest consensus possible, the addition of an interpretative statement to Article 86 of the Constitution, so that there is no slight shadow for the political world's intention not to allow the hooding of corruption cases. Thus the proposal of the New Democracy Committee for the Review of the Constitution moves in the direction of the New Democracy, since in this context the Governing Party rejects all the proposals for the social state, the social rights of the institutions of direct democracy by regional and intra-regional cohesion. It has been said by the chairman of the Revision Committee that the governing party will consent to the addition of a subparagraph providing for the popular legislative initiative. It is a welcome development which we welcome positively. Only the Plenary Assembly of the Revision Parliament has decisive powers, and the committee responsible has advisory powers. In this context, our position includes SYRIZA's proposals. These have as the starting point the fact that in recent years there has been a 'technological-democratic ideology', which is linked to the fact that democracy is in the process of'revolutionary' and in an institutional crisis by removing fields from the material of democratic political confrontation. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] The proposal of SYRIZA contains provisions on the upgrading of democracy and the strengthening of popular sovereignty, on strengthening the institutions of parliament and of direct democracy, on restoring the prestige of policy and credibility of policies to strengthen the rule of law, on introducing distinct roles in relations between the State and the Church, on safeguarding the social state, on protecting common goods and social rights, and finally on strengthening regional and intra-regional cohesion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, too. Mrs. Kefalidou Harula from the Change Movement has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are starting today in plenary the debate on the revision of the Constitution. The context of the debate is outlined by the systematic and successful attempt to depreciate the process by the SYRIZA Government and the significant losses at the level of people, top constitutionalists. At the Change Movement, while committed to the need to reach the broadest possible consensus on the few but necessary institutional reforms, we have come to a dialogue aimed at making a bold step forward with the widest possible convergence. The minelisation of the dialog field by SYRIZA and the artificial polarization it created contributed to the prevalence of the climate of micro-party settlements that create another lost opportunity for the country. We will talk, we will be placed, we will be opposed, there will be a debate - in many sense - on small and management issues. In the end, we will vote for a review of the tax laws, misery, without vision, completely incomplete, blinded by the country's major demands, such as the security of the tax environment, the ban on the retroactiveness of tax laws, the strengthening of local government, the introduction of the state's obligation to adopt actions to address climate change, the adoption of rules on transparency and control of the financial situations of political parties and others. Precious, long-discussed, necessary sections and similar brave steps are postponed, proving once again how much the political system is. They may be election crowns in the distant future. So we move on to a constitutional review without debate on higher education. Article 16: Non-State, non-profit universities. As if it were not something that concerns the whole of Greek society, we prefer to mock our ideas, by continuing to circumvent the Constitution by means of parallel procedures for the recognition of foreign qualifications by private universities and collaborative colleges, because don't forget that all our obligations under Union law are all. At the same time, we break our garments for the exclusive public character of higher education in the country. Hypocritical, don't you think? At every level, the state indicates the legitimate circumvention of its supreme law, and that seems to us perfectly normal. And since this is how we turn the foundation stone of our democracy into a dead letter, we maintain at the same time the illusion of self-worth. Eventually, education in Greece remains out of review and the pathogens will follow us for the next decade. Then we see, not us, of course, next. In the short time available, I want to refer to a number of articles. Article 76: Special procedure for framework laws. In the discussions in the Revision Committee we have proposed that the laws passed by a qualified majority - more than 3/5 - be abolished within the next five years only by a proportional majority in Parliament. A similar arrangement was proposed for the laws relating to large investment projects and strategic investment. The relevant provision of the Constitution would have a protective effect on the arbitrary nature of the respective government and would create a secure environment where the citizen, the company, the investor could plan its activities with the safety of a trustworthy state in a consistent and discreet manner. However, Article 76 is not included in the revised provisions. Article 88: Justice and home affairs. After SYRIZA's experience, what they see the light of publicity in the past year, is there anyone who has serious objections that there is a need to strengthen the independence of justice? In the Change Movement we have tabled a series of interventions to strengthen its independence and strengthen the principles of the rule of law. Our proposals included strengthening the role of the Parliament in selecting the leadership of justice, taking advantage of the pilot trial in controlling the constitutionality of laws, strengthening the functioning of the judiciary, revising the Supreme Judiciary rule, and abolishing the legal justice court, criminal law and military justice. However, the review under discussion has clearly ignored the needs of Greek justice and the citizen, as if we were talking about another country that has solved its vital problems as a society and has dealt with individual ones. We are in Greece, in Greece, who once again breaks up the vitals of falsehood, the ones with which thirty-five post-cultural years now we have been feeding and led us to the memorials. Ladies and gentlemen, the need to revise Rule 32 of the Constitution, which speaks of the removal of the President of the Republic from the anticipated dissolution of the House, if it is not elected, has - since the experience of the SYRIZA - matured throughout the political world. In the Change Movement we have proposed the removal of the dissolution of the House, that is, paragraph 4 of Article 2 and paragraph 5 of Article 41 respectively. We are proposing that the President of the Republic be elected by the same House after a period of extension of the term of office of the President in active employment, and that even though the 3/5 consensus is still not reached, the election should be by fifty-one votes. Political reality has proved to be below the will of the constitutional legislator. The climate of comfortable and unregulated political competition, which has reached the level of political extermination in recent years, does not leave the necessary space for consents required by the President of the Republic. In fact, we are trying to cure the injuries that we ourselves create with the following micropolitics and conflicting tactics. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need some more time, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are the last and most presumptuous in Europe that we are still discussing the vote on fraud. Greeks who are outside the territory at last deserve a solution that will enhance our political and legal culture. We are not looking to discover the wheel, most Western countries have already done it, and not only. At the same time as we are afraid of the letter vote, the adoption of the electronic vote is gaining ground every day, but elsewhere, not in Greece, in a Greece that trusts in the transfer of property by pressing a key but doubts the security of the electronic vote. The Constitution as a fundamental law on which the creation of the whole of a country's legislation is based, as regards the rights, obligations of citizens, the organisation, the basic rules of operation of the state and of the institutions, this fundamental law is called on in the next few days to review. And it is a pity that we are missing a historic opportunity and a pity that we have been committed for the next ten years. We and the country are committed to a state of desolation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u38	Mrs. Kefalidou, you need to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u39	Because we have never had the courage to talk about Article 110, which is nothing but the asymmetrical force that the constitutional legislator has given the Proposed Review House to decide. Finally, with the exception of the provisions governing the election of the President of the Republic without the dissolution of the Parliament and the vote of the dismissals, the supreme parliamentary procedure should be lower than the country's expectations and needs. With these few thoughts and thanking colleagues who, in fact, gave their best to the committees, I hope it will be the next Review House, a parliament that boldly can see the problems that Greek society has. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u40	Thank you. Mr. Delis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece. Here comes Mr. Villard.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u41	Given that the Greek civil constitution, like any constitution, legally enshrines the power of the sovereign bourgeoisie, and the respective revisions of this constitution cannot but aim in two directions: on the one hand, to ensure the stability of this bourgeois power and, on the other, to the up-to-date version of the new needs of the bourgeois political system, as they arise in the course of developments. These objectives served the previous three Reviews of the existing constitution of 1975 and the present, fourth Review also serves themselves. Here we recall the first constitutional review of 1986 on PASOK, which limited the powers of the President of the Republic and, above all, the second review of 2001 - once again on PASOK - the focus of which were then the needs of the capital to guarantee and promote the integration of our country into EMU and the Eurozone, the liberalisation of a number of sectors of the economy from state-owned capitalism and, of course, the pursuit of fiscal stability by means of a drastic reduction in social policy expenditure. This is the largest to date and in-depth constitutional review, in which there was a broad consensus between the PASOK and the New Democracy at that time. The third Review of 2008 on New Democracy, despite its initial target, ended up with a limited range. In short, therefore, the three previous revisions further strengthened the validity of the law of the European Union not only with regard to common laws, but also with regard to the Constitution itself. Why are we talking about all this? It is precisely on the basis of all the above that urban policy has been implemented and is still being implemented with and without the memoranda, the suffocating commission, the whole of capital measures and against the people, as they are evacuated by the European Union and apply to all its Member States. With the current review, which has the originality of the different majority of the House of Revision from the Proposed House, both with the proposals tabled by SYRIZA and New Democracy, not only maintains the previous reactionary changes of the previous constitutional revisions, but further reinforces the shield of the urban political system and seeks to be reconstructed with the current needs of the ruling class. It is a fact and we must say that in recent years and especially in the years of the economic crisis, the urban political system has seen its prestige diminishing to the people. You see, all the bourgeois governments which have successively managed the capitalist crisis have loaded all the burdens to overcome this crisis in the people's strata with a storm of anti-grassroots measures through the three memoranda, and the urban ideologies that bombed popular consciences in order to obscure the real cause and the character of the crisis, of course, a crisis of capitalist origin - and here it is good to remember all those theories about 'golden boys', 'capitalism' - all these ideologies which have moved wide, accelerated the deterioration of the present urban political system in the eyes of the people. The restoration of this reduced prestige, the healing of the wounded charm and the restoration, as far as possible, of the lost price of this urban political system, are one of the causes and one of the objectives of the constitutional reform. Indeed, as an emergency, this need for the urban political system to be made up and purified in the eyes of the people is also judged, because it has fallen out in the years of the crisis, and, let us say, the change in the provision for the responsibility of Ministers, but it is only in the end, since, despite the improvement it brings, it does not lead to equality, which would have been if the JRC's proposal for the complete abolition of Article 86 on the responsibility of Ministers was accepted. Another key objective of this constitutional review is to ensure the stability of the urban political system and its armour, particularly in the face of increasing popular discontent and any future difficulty in forming a government. And as they say together, New Democracy and SYRIZA, in order to serve the central goal of government-political stability and political continuity, the 'continuation of the state', as they usually say, which should not be disturbed for any reason, both agree to release the election of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the Parliament or propose, such as SYRIZA, the so-called 'constructive vote of distrust', which leads directly to minority governments, in order to remain in their place even against the will of the people. This is, of course, about the stability that the capital needs. Every day, BSE is speaking of it, and it requires that anti-grassroots policy which favours its competitiveness, namely its profitability, be applied consistently and without turmoil. The third objective of the Constitutional Review comes to serve that meaningless and resurrected bipartite political struggle, which are now proven to be strategic coexistence, such as SYRIZA and the New Democracy. This false argument is set in that section of the articles of the Constitution, which refer to individual and social rights, and that is no accident at all. This is the most important part of the Constitution that is the greatest distance from real life. It is, that is, what from all of the rest of the Constitution, here is more reflected in all the hypocrisy of urban constitutional declarations. Remember what? The equality, fair taxation or the right to work that is allegedly protecting the Constitution? Reality itself disproves these proclamations. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] At the same time as all urban parties are referring to the Greek bells the necessary and overtime separation of the State from the Church, defending all urban parties the supremacy of European Union law against Greek and leaving it intact - despite the fact that they often invoke it as an obstacle to workers' claims - Article 103 of the Constitution, for example, which prohibits the permanentisation of contract workers in the public sector. It is only the JRC that has called for the abolition of this article.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Delia, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u43	I shall conclude, Mr President. We participate in the constitutional review, we put forward proposals, we exhaust every margin to protect and broaden people's rights, democratic rights, trade union freedoms, the sovereign rights of the country, without any illusion that there can be a progressive constitution within the current power of capital and calling on the people to make these proposals axe of their struggle. After all, it is only the people who are perpetuating the wealth they produce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, too. Let us all make an effort, the MPs in particular, why not Mr Delis, but everyone, have spoken for about nine minutes. This means that Mrs Agrinopoulou will be shouting at the end, which is the last speaker for today. Well, Mr. Villardos, the Greek Parliamentary Representative, has been speaking for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we have been called upon to discuss the Constitution for a whole week at a time when Greece is the most bankrupt country on the planet, especially in terms of its red private debt, and it is also a precedent for creditors, who actually have their public and private property, such as every bankrupt in an ongoing bankruptcy, at a time when both in its demographic problem and migration are on the rise, while more and more Greeks have abandoned and will continue to leave their homeland, failing to survive under the conditions of insecurity and uncertainty escalating. Let us not forget here the political, social, cultural and moral bankruptcy of our country, in addition to the economic risk of bankruptcy again in 2022 or by 2032 at the latest, but then sold everything out. Sadly, nature is ruthless with those nations that are unable to deal effectively with their problems, leading them, without any overreaction, to extinction. Also, unfortunately, the Greek Government fails to understand that, if we do not help ourselves, no one will help us. So, gradually Greece will become literally a European dump, a multicultural area flooded with illegal immigrants and an impoverished native population that is slow but stable, will disappear. In relation to our Constitution, I will now begin with a general report by Mr Conkogiorg in the political system, which reads as follows: "Because the political system has been conquered by the party system, which has been placed in the position of the political system, the party instead of acting as the mediator of society and it, changed the state from institutional to the service of society and the nation to the power of society. In short, the party establishment is using the state to distinguish the public good, as are the groups of interests that it literally boasts for society to be plundered. The Greek system has exceeded the official rules of the oligarchy and has changed to an oligarchal gang, i.e. a system that substitutes the entire state to parallel groups serving their own interests, plundering the entire society and the public good." That's what Mr. Kontogiorgis said. According to another eminent legal opinion the conclusions of which cannot be judged since they do not belong to the area of our knowledge, but must seriously concern us are the following: "The 1975 Constitution with all its revisions has established a state which was closed, which was only for the purpose of managing the authority of its inspires, without, unfortunately, ensuring the user of a democratic government at all." Its biggest problems are in the field of state organisation, where under the current Constitution the following applies: Firstly, the House is committed to the respective government, because of the non-institutionalisation of separate elections for executive and legislative power, in conjunction with the total lack of internal-party transparency and democracy institutions. Members are not independent, but they vote for the bill submitted by the government under the threat of deletion if party discipline is not respected. So, indeed, there is no reason to read bills or memos in the past, since they cannot sign them. The elections are held whenever appropriate by the government in question for purely political purposes and not every four years as is the case in all the favoured countries. Secondly, the party without its functioning being regulated, except by a general provision of Article 29, has become a supreme institution of the state. The fact that it is not at all regulated by the Constitution has allowed third-world parties to exist in which the basic democratic institutions and the statutes do not even exist, but the will of the respective Head of State, as well as of his court, as if they were king, prevails. The Chief, if he controls the party, controls, if his party is elected first, the entire parliament of course and the government, and appoints the head of justice. Thirdly, the constitution in the well-known Article 44 provides for the possibility of a referendum only on the decision of the government or the majority of the House, so the party that governs either itself or with the cooperation of another. Fourthly, justice is clearly mutilated, since under Article 90 of the Constitution its leadership is appointed by the government. In addition, there is no constitutional court of increased prestige to judge whether or not the laws were constitutional, as well as to determine whether their intended voting procedure has been complied with. Fifth, the members of the government concerned and all the MPs have constitutionally guaranteed their privileged treatment and impunity vis-à-vis the rest of the citizens, on the basis of the provisions of Articles 62 and 86 of the Constitution, which were transferred to the 1975 Constitution by the Constitutions of 1864, 1911 and 1952. In addition, there is no system of public accountability, as is the case for the smallest club, since in the House it is never considered that the national budget of the previous year should be respected, and nobody is to blame for the excesses. It is logical, then, that the country was forced to do so, since those who manage our money do not take any responsibility or accountable to anyone. It is not even considered essential to respect the election commitments made by each party, so by voting they actually give a white cheque. Even the institution of control of the economics of the parties of the House is completely perforated, since it is carried out through a committee involving a majority of the Members of the House, which means that the parties control themselves effectively. Sixth, obviously not all Greeks have the same political rights, since Parliament's parties ensure privileged funding and promotion. We have to fill in here, how in the 2017 report we found that the parties received an exceptional grant of EUR 11,750,000 in addition to the tactic, on the grounds that they could not cope with their expenses. We have to note here that the 2017 report was only a week ago, and it obviously should have been carried out the previous year. Really, how many Greeks and how many Greek companies have received anything similar? Did it become known as having to the citizens? Is this correct for a bankrupt country that constantly reduces wages and pensions by limiting the social state and by increasing taxes either directly or by misleading tricks, such as PPC's invoices? The above-mentioned lawman refers to many other, intentionally or otherwise, errors of the Constitution, which should be corrected. Really, how many of these are included in the current Constitution Review? Almost none. On the other hand, what is the point in the debate when the ruling party will be what it will finally decide, and where necessary it will be supported by the other party that has contributed to the country's overcompensation and bankruptcy, whatever name it uses today? Is it just to register the views of all of us today in the Minutes of the House, so that they simply exist? What benefit, though, since our positions are recorded in our programme, which can be studied on the Internet? However, it may make sense to mention briefly what this House has not done in our view. In this regard, the following. Firstly, it did not dare even to propose a change in the way the President of the Republic was elected directly by the citizens with increased powers. Secondly, he did not dare at last propose the creation of a constitutional court for universal control of the constitutionality of the laws and for the protection of the Greeks, as almost all other states have, even Skopje or Turkey. Thirdly, he has not even dared to touch Article 110 on Revision of the Constitution, so that the Constitution ceases to be the sole responsibility of civil servants. The possibility of involving citizens in the procedures relating to the Revision of the Constitution has not even been considered, as is the case in many other states. We propose to launch the review process by both the citizens and the gathering of two hundred thousand signatures. Why, do we have society ostracized outside the political system to peculiarize? Isn't this proud people who gave birth to democracy worthy of defining their own fates? What prevents us from giving him these powers? Fourthly, it did not dare to touch the incompatibility Member and Minister so that there would be a real distinction of powers and an end to the rupture in our country. Fifthly, he did not dare to propose the abolition of Article 86, which leaves unpunished ministers and Prime Ministers. Sixthly, it was not proposed to incorporate justice by not selecting its leadership from the government. Seventh, in this Review House, major issues of direct democracy, such as referendums by citizens and proposals for laws by citizens, which were raised mainly by SYRIZA, but with excessive demands on the number of signatures required. We believe that it should be 100 000 and thirty thousand, respectively, on the basis of the proportion of what Italy has. However, everything is rejected by the majority of the New Democracy, which considers this participation to be dangerous. After all, it changed immediately the simple analogue, by which the Greeks voted local government, with the creation of the authoritarian state, completely without question that the citizens chose those who would command them by this particular system. Finally, after about forty-five years of post-government years, the Third Hellenic Republic has led the country and the citizens to bankruptcy, which we have all lived and lived, stressing that a country never fails but that its citizens, unfortunately, have not yet understood, despite the fact that there have been a very deep crisis unique to world history for ten years. This democracy has failed and instead we all agree in radical areas so that we can move to the Fourth Hellenic Republic and open the horizons of Greek society in the 21st century, we continue to walk on the same failed path that led to the mortgageation of our country for at least the entire 21st century. In 2021 we will celebrate the two hundred years from liberation from the Turkish yoke, enslaved to the lenders. Are we going to celebrate our new enslavement? We have lost the name of Macedonia, with what this implies, and, at the same time, Turkey is here again and demands parts of the Greek territory. The Third Hellenic Republic has therefore failed and must proceed as quickly as possible in the Fourth Hellenic Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr Villardo, for keeping time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme "The King and the Revolution", organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-five students and students and three educational attendants from the New Peramos High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] My dear children, the top parliamentary procedure has been launched today, namely the revision of articles of the Constitution. To understand, after Monday when the vote takes place, the articles of the Constitution for at least five years in essence cannot be reviewed. The Constitution is the top law of the Greek state. You will now hear Mr Ioannis Tragakis from New Democracy, who cannot say that it happens but is also the oldest Member of Parliament today, that is, it has been elected most of the time. Mr. Tragakis, for seven minutes you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u47	Starting, Mr President, from what you said, that is the top parliamentary procedure, I would like to say that I was sad today that the Prime Minister alone was here, in such a top parliamentary procedure, and that is very important. I was lucky to be in almost all the reviews. I was a parliament secretary in 1975, I was Chairman of the Revision Committee of the Constitution in 2007, and I also served as President in the 2014 Revision of the Constitution, when the New Democracy had then submitted a very serious proposal and many articles to be revised. I was also Vice-President of the House, with Mr Friday, and I think we did a very, very serious job there. The only one of the hundred and fifty-four provisions that we have proposed for review has come to the Revision House only for forty-nine and few of them are those which have taken the necessary number of votes to discuss. I'm going to make a historical retreat about the Constitutions. Since 1821 we have had 16 Constitutional Reviews. From them - keep it - only three have been done according to constitutional forecasts, 2001, 2008 and now. The current Revision I could say that, because the President put it, welcoming the children from Nea Permos, does not have two important articles for me: Article 16, which deals with establishing non-profit universities and is a very important article - where we missed the opportunity, because when we have to come back for this article, it will be ten years - and Article 24. It was two important articles that we were unable to review, to send for revision, under the responsibility of the Opposition, the government at the time. I would now like to refer to some of the top articles, such as Article 110, concerning the procedures for the revision of the Constitution. It is well known that a very large portion of constitutionalists have always said that we should not revise Article 110 so that the Constitution does not evolve into a common legislative procedure. There are others, of course, many who propose that Article 110 be revised. In 1975, when I was in that Revision of the Constitution, Constantine Karamanlis, Constantine Tsatsos, Constantine Papaconstantinou, Constantine Stefanakis had introduced the arrangement that majorities should be as follows and that elections should be held: If you take the first hundred hundred eighty, then in the second hundred fifty one, or if you get the first hundred fifty-one, in the second hundred eighty. This is the so-called 'post-election system', i.e. elections are being held. Now that we are dealing with this issue, I, too, have formulated an opinion from the past, as well as top constitutionalists, that all the suggestions to the Proposed House regarding the content of the revised provisions do not bind the Revision House. There was a very serious and great debate. Refer to the Minutes. Mr Stylianides and Mr Tsavaras, who was the rapporteur and the chairman of our committee, and we thank them for having done a huge amount of work, had analysed in the article why the Proposing House should not commit itself to its proposals. There are so many opinions that mention this, Slotolos in 1933, Kyritopoulos in 1962, Georgopoulos in 1963, Menesis in 1980, Venizelos in 1984, Paraskevi in 2018, the President of the Greek Constitutionalists and Chairman of the Scientific Council of the Parliament, Professor Mavrias. In this regard, the Proposing House only defines the framework of the Review, i.e. the provisions which need to be amended, replaced, included by the addition of new provisions or to be formally interpreted. I shall refer briefly to Article 32 which all the parties agreed to free the election of the President of the Republic from the elections. Have we ever wondered what the President of the Republic is? The President of the Republic shall be a single representative of the Head of State. It's the symbol of national unity, the regulator of the regime, but not the guarantor. The guarantor of the regime is the people. But that's not all. Because I hear many times say 'the representative of the people', the Member is not a representative of the people. The MP is a representative of the people. This is pure democracy and, indeed, this has been analysed by Mr Javarra. The President of the Republic also takes part in and exercises control of the executive and has few judicial powers. So, as this alternative way has been, how many times do you think the House was dismantled and elections were called out because of the failure to achieve the presidential election of the Republic? Three times. The House could have been dissolved in 1989 for not achieving a President-in-Office of the Republic, but this had been consensually done. The first time for me was in 2009, when the then Prime Minister George Papandreou said, "I will lead the place to elections anyway, regardless of whether I do not disagree with the nominating President of the Republic that we shall vote afterwards." [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will also need a few more minutes, because I will not speak in the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u48	Go on, Mr. Tragakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u49	The third time was 2015 on SYRIZA, when the Samara government's term of office was violently interrupted and we were led to elections. I think there are other provisions that we can discuss. First of all, we agreed on the release of the election. What did SYRIZA propose? He proposed that nine votes should take place, three in the first House and then one vote should be taken every month for six months, so nine votes. My questions are as follows: The government's term of office ends in this six-month period, either because it resigns or because its term of office ends and we are led to elections. The President of the Republic will be elected by two hundred and eighty votes, in the next parliament to be elected again, and he will still need two hundred votes, so they are two different votes in both votes. And another thing: if the President of the Republic fails or ends his term of office in this six-month period, then we will again be led to elections, which I think the issue of the election of the President of the Republic will be an incident, because then we will have been led to elections and the parties will look at the elections and we will still have a different vote. So you realize that a very big issue is being created. It was proposed, for example, that we appeal to the people. It had been discussed too many times. I do not hide from you that it had also been discussed in 2001 and 2008, when I was president. I think it's been discussed...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u50	In your proposal in 2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u51	Yeah. I should like to answer that question. What is going on in other countries? It is done in many countries, but in these countries the system is semi-President, it is a system that came from countries which were once in totalitarian regimes. If you ask me about Austria, I will tell you that Austria wanted to be formalised as a state in relation to Germany, so they have a direct election of the President of the Republic. So the only possible proposal is that of the New Democracy, elected by this House in three votes. I would like to mention for a short time also Articles 62 and 86 concerning the price of the political world. This is where all the parties' proposals coincide. All of us by unanimity almost wanted to protect the authority of the political world, and that is why we have proposed some improvements to Rule 62 and Rule 86, that is, to have the same legal treatment as ordinary citizens and ministers and MPs. As far as Article 62 is concerned, however, I will be allowed to mention the irresponsible one, which is far from being irresponsible. Other than the irresponsibleness of the Members and the irresponsible one. The irresponsible is the one provided for in Articles 60 and 61 of the Constitution, which refers to omissions and acts which are in direct connection with the parliamentary function, while the impunity refers to any criminal act by a Member not related to his or her office. The exception to the principle of impunity, of course, is what is expressly stated in Article 62(4) for self-determination offences. Another basic difference between the irresponsible and the irresponsible is that the latter, i.e. the irresponsible, has no time, whereas the irresponsible is only valid as long as the term of the parliamentary term. This is an important difference between the irresponsible and the irresponsible. I shall say two words on Rule 86, and I shall close, Mr President, and thank you. In fact, it has too many procedural details. It goes far beyond the purpose of protecting the ministers from continually sues that prevented them from carrying out their work. In addition, the involvement of the participants in the special court and not in the ordinary criminal courts conflicts with what is considered a fair trial in the European Union. So this convention is being reviewed and we have to put several provisions on it and change several of the provisions referred to in No 3961. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the New Democracy has proposed provisions for a Constitution that is functional, serious, with a social, progressive and significant intervention in terms of legislative power, namely Parliament, executive power, namely government and judiciary, education, the environment and finance. Unfortunately, most of the provisions from the previous Proposed House have not been reassigned. At least for what has been proposed now, I would like to ask my fellow Members not to allow this opportunity to go lost and to proceed with arrangements that will leave their print for many years. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u52	Be well, Mr. Tragakis. I imagine that the reason why I gave Mr Tragakis more time is clear, so that none of his colleagues will take advantage of that. Mr. SYRIZA has the floor. Next is Mr Lebanese from the New Democracy. Here, Mr. Darkness, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the main cell of cultural evolution is the Review of the basic map of our political coexistence. The revision of the fundamental law on the rights and obligations of citizens, as well as the basic rules of the state, is taking place today in Parliament. We are now called upon to record the evolution of our culture in the field of confrontation and even conflict of ideas between groups of citizens with different ideological backgrounds and interests. There will be a picture of today's debate within the society of the interests of the many, and that of the few and possessing economic power and power. Since August 2018, we have been exempted from the work of the memoranda imposed by the crisis, leaving behind the derogations from the constitutional legitimacy imposed by our lenders' demands, because there have been derogations from the constitutional order. I would remind you of the underprivileged subsidized wages and the lack of negotiation on collective bargaining and not just. So, leaving behind our forced conciliation with non-institutional bodies such as the Eurogroup, we are now being called upon to work towards strengthening the expression of popular sovereignty, strengthening the democratic legitimacy of Parliament, guaranteeing the autonomy of executive power by all kinds of ex-institutional centres and interventions, and finally ensuring the restoration of the honour and credibility of the policy. This is the only way to restore and strengthen the confidence of citizens in democratic institutions, which is the only way for the citizen to take part in the democratic process. I would like to raise one - only two areas than this Constitutional Review includes first - the relationship between State and Church, which has so upset our common life historically. In the first place, I would like to state that I believe that religion does not need the state and the state does not need religion. They should go parallel, I believe, but this was not possible since the first period of the life of the younger Greek state, when the bavarian authority, namely the Theoclest Farkamidis, distracted the Greek metropolitans from the Ecumenical Patriarchate, creating the Self-Headed Church of Greece. The Bavarians, in wanting to exercise full sovereignty over the new state, used the Orthodox Church as a tool in favour of the state, as a legal mechanism of their own power, turning religion into a state ideology. The following powers used it as an excuse and an alibi at times when democracy was threatened or collapsed. Remind the analogy against Eleftherios Venizelos, the "Greek Christians" of the junta of the colonists, the speeches of a lamb against the Prespecies Agreement, which is now accepted and respected by the government majority. Another point concerning the Church and the state is the religious obligation to swear. But it cannot be a religious obligation, which is not foreseen anywhere in the Orthodox faith. A prerequisite for good faith is the church, confession and Divine Transfer. There is no rule or other obligation on religious oath. The apostle Paul even said that for those close to Christ, it does not matter who does circumcision and who not all are God’s creatures. How many and how many were not hidden behind the religious oath to do illegally? How many have not invoked the sacred gospel as mediating to carry out subsequent sins and illegality, both as regards the sphere of state and economics and so many others that we all know? At least when a person invokes his honor and reputation by taking an oath, risking, divesting, jeopardizing the most valuable thing he has as a member of society. It's his price and reputation, and as he wants to handle it. But the sacred gospel cannot be used as an excuse and as an alibi. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA's proposal for constitutional review seeks institutional balance, ensuring that the people's sovereignty and the restoration of citizens' confidence in the state itself, institutions and democratic functioning are guaranteed. The constitutional safeguarding of the simple analogue system is a huge qualitative step forward. But when will they handle our fates by a majority in Parliament, but by a minority in the electorate and in society? SYRIZA's brave proposal to disconnect the elections from the election of President of the Republic gives life to our political system to function consensually, collaboratively and with courage to address the need for a co-existence and creative agreement to what unite us. Let us also note the proposal for a minority to propose the setting up of committees of inquiry, a function that is positive for the democratic functioning of Parliament and respect for the rights of the opposition. The issue of the law on the liability of Ministers must finally be settled, as is required by the entire Greek people. The amortisation deadline should be abolished, voting in favour of the necessary interpretative statement. Ladies and gentlemen, in the process of reviewing our Constitution, which starts today, we are called upon to prove as political forces that we honor the people, who in the time of the crisis has set back, seeing their democratic conquests and rights shrink. We must return to the Greek people his rights and dignity. We must deliver him a reformed constitution that responds to the struggles and needs of our time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-seven students and students and two of their teachers, since the 11th Patras High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Lebanese has the floor from New Democracy, followed by Mr Andrianos. Here you go, Mr. Levane.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Revision of the Constitution is the top parliamentary procedure and I sincerely feel honoured to participate in it. First of all, I would like to thank the Revision Committee both in the Proposing House and in the Revisionary and personally Mr Stylianides for the level of political and scientific speech and the high-level and rapid meetings that have taken place. Of the important provisions we have to discuss today, there are two top articles, 16 and 24, two articles that the SYRIZA and ANEL government unfortunately did not vote on, so we have to wait for about ten more years. Why did we fly into the basket of unusables the possibility of setting up non-governmental higher institutions? Why have we missed the opportunity to make our country a training centre in the wider region of the Eastern Mediterranean? Why do we continue to allow a half-billion to leave our country from the Greeks and Greek women trying to study abroad and, on the other hand, to deprive the thousands of foreign students who would come to study in our own country? Why do you refuse to realize that freedom of choice would also be upgraded to the public university? The answer is simple. Ideals and attachment to the past. With regard to Article 24, our proposals related to more effective environmental protection, to measures to address the great risk of climate change. So we missed the opportunity. This does not mean, however, that this Review is pointless and had to be stopped, as some were recommended in the Review Committee. The proposed changes are, in any case, a step forward and mature of our political system and we are right to continue. It is of particular importance that Article 54(4) be amended. It is top two reasons: on the one hand, it goes on with the vote of the impossible Greeks, on the other, because it demonstrates that there can be consensus between the political forces in our country. The New Democracy, faithful to what has been committed, gives the Greeks the right to vote, clearly with retreats from what we would like, but politics is, in the end, the art of the practicable. But we have never jeopardized our'red line', the equivalency of the Greeks of the interior with the outside. It is also a supreme provision that Article 32(4) of the Constitution. The election of the President of the Republic must be disconnected from the dissolution of the Parliament. Our proposal for the election of a hundred and fifty-one votes is not, as we are accused of, the institution. The New Democracy has never worked on the presidential election since 1975. On the contrary, twice its politicians used the election of the President of the Republic to cast New Democracy's governments, with the consequences known to everyone. The development of governmental work in four years is necessary and we are determined to protect it. At the same time, the election by an absolute majority is already reflected in the Constitution, and it is in complete harmony with the powers of the President of the Republic. This Review, however, also receives two articles that enhance Parliament's own democracy and promote the relationship between the political society, namely Article 62, for the 'invitedness of the Members' and 86 for the responsibility of the Ministers'. With regard to Rule 62, it is a common place for all of us that immunity should only concern the exercise of the duties of the Member and his political activity. Otherwise, the law itself will apply, just as for every Greek citizen. Article 86 has come from a long time ago. The revolutionary constitutions provided favorable treatment for the ministers, the Undersecretaries and the Prime Minister, as he has always suffered an attempt to criminalise our country's political life. Trikoupis vs. Deligiannis, Venizelos v. Wunaris, but also the recent '89. The political history of our country has given us valuable lessons about the value of this article. If, however, there is an obstacle that creates distortion in the application of this provision, that is the short amortisation deadline. So this is what we are going to change and the House will now be able to prosecute within the common denomination. With the revision of Article 68, the rights of the parliamentary minority are protected and strengthened, increasing parliamentary control and democratic, always, pressure on the governments concerned. In addition, the constitutionalisation of the minimum guaranteed income is a provision with a substantial, positive, social figure. In conclusion, I would like to highlight the different style, but also the content of the speech made by the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Katrugalos. Evident in our ears this morning was the difference with the corresponding speech of the majority rapporteur, Mr Javarra, at both political and theoretical level. From the consensual and scientific approach that we have followed him to the committee, he has gone into an aggressive micropolitical attitude. He blamed the New Democracy's proposal for reactive, neoliberal, out of reality. I say this briefly, because I don't have much time. I sincerely hope that this is not the central line of SYRIZA in the debate on the Constitution and in general in your public speech. Do not use this at the top moment for our parliamentary procedure in the debate within Ethiopia, to solve problems and political deadlocks outside Ethiopia. In reply to Professor Katrugalo - he is not here - although I am not a lawman, I refer him to the great professor - we have all read his books, even if we are not law-enforcement - the professor's professor, the constitutionalist Aristewoulo Manesis. He says, in particular, that Menesis is a compromise of the constitution. "The Constitution appears in the form of Janu. It sees both the past and the future. That's a match. It's a function. Conservative, in so far as it protects the subordinate relations and structures of state-organised social coexistence and progressive, in so far as some of its institutions and provisions may serve as advanced battle positions for emerging new, socio-political forces, thus facilitating historical development.’ [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing with this - the Review that we are debating today, is certainly not a rich Review. She's not the one we'd like to have. But it is the Review, which, in the end, we could have and clearly move in the right democratic direction, and it would be a good thing for our political system to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u56	Thank you. Mr. Andrianos from New Democracy has the floor and the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement Mr. Kamines follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u57	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the process that we have started today is one of Parliament's top functions, as with its completion we will be called upon to define by our vote the content of the country's Charter. This is a great honour, especially on the days in which Article 51(2) states that parliamentarians represent the nation and not only their constituents, only their constituency or only any other subtotal gain a separate weight. Unfortunately, at least the first part of the review process did not come to an end. Of course, it is difficult to seek and reach the necessary consensus on situations of political exacerbation, such as the environment, within which this process began. As also, it is clear that the responsibility for the result cannot be exhausted in references to the features of the situation. First of all, it has not been possible to agree on the revision of overtime, such as Article 16, so a great opportunity has been lost for the area of education - and Article 24, where a great opportunity has also been lost to protect the environment from the effects of climate change. Unfortunately, there was no agreement to imprint the constitution on good legislation. I would remind you here of the main findings of the recent study published by the Centre for Liberal Studies, according to which none of the laws adopted last year, in 2018, meets all the conditions laid down by law. Finally, unfortunately, many of the proposed corrections and additions were guided by not serving the needs of the nation through strengthening our democratic culture, but by ideological labelling at individual party audiences. In this direction, changes were proposed, which were contrary to other articles of the Constitution, which, if voted, would create institutional chaos, but also completely contrary to the constitutional tradition of the country, the components of our national identity, contrary to the will and democratic mind of the vast majority of Greeks and Greeks. In view of this, then, the perspective is reasonable the criticism that, unfortunately, once again, this review process has also resulted in another lost opportunity. Of course, the individual fields, as in the final part of the second part of the procedure, have been achieved, the necessary broad consensus, are some comfort. I particularly want to dwell on a few points. First of all, in the forecasts for the institutional upgrading of Parliament's role by establishing the possibility of setting up a committee of inquiry, following a proposal by ten opposition MPs, the predictions of the responsibility of Ministers, but also the stricter immunity of Members with regard to the limitation of criminal offences, a provocative loophole, which has reasonably undermined citizens' confidence in our democratic institutions. The same objective is to facilitate the staff of the independent authorities and, above all, to release the procedure for the election of the President of the Republic from parliamentary elections. This is a change that excludes any attempt to exploit the role of the country's state supreme ruler to serve micro-party targets, as has been made by the political opponents of the New Democracy in the past. It is particularly good that this absolutely necessary correction has broad support, demonstrating that the appropriate rules contribute decisively to the harmonisation of the individual interests with the common good. Particularly substantial and symbolic is the addition to Article 21 of the reference to minimum guaranteed income, one of the most effective tools for combating poverty and family protection. This is one of the main pillars of the social market economy and a measure proposed by Hayek and Friedman for the first time, on the understanding that it is an obligation for every special society to ensure a decent living threshold, an effective social protection network for its less lucky members. Finally, I want to focus on the forecasts of the right and the facilitation of the vote of Greek citizens who live abroad. The consensus which, after all, has finally been reached allows for the partial improvement of a completely unacceptable treaty on the universal right of Greek citizens to vote abroad against Greek citizens, who are supposed to have guaranteed equal rights with every other Greek citizen, have their home in their hearts and souls and give them a commitment and warmth from the place of residence, a fight for our national interests. I hope that this change will be the first step towards full correction in the future of an injustice, which may for decades have been justified on the basis of the shortage of instruments, for example, of technology, but today it is totally unjustified and irreparably exposes those seeking to perpetuate it. Ladies and gentlemen, as the current government proceeds in the direction of restoring normality, the more we leave behind the multiannual crisis that has shocked our country and our society, the more the scope of the possible consensus between the political forces of the country will be widened. At the moment, it is good that at least in these few but key points we have managed to reach agreement. Despite many lost opportunities, we have the opportunity to substantially improve the content of the country's Charter. So let's use it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, too. Mr Kamines, Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, has the floor for 15 minutes, followed by Ms Papakostas from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the final phase of the Revision of the Constitution begins, which, unfortunately, as before 2008, will prove to be a minor review of its added constitutional value, but major importance for its constitutional cost. Because the next review process will not be able to take place unless it has taken place five years since the end of this Review. The result is that the next decade for our country will be constitutionally brutal, and the responsibility, of course, lies primarily with the protagonists of the case, the SYRIZA and the New Democracy, who have been altered in a role of co-population and major opposition in the two Bulgarians, who are involved in the review process. From you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and of SYRIZA, he has missed the courage to take one step in the direction of another, in order to reach the consensus which you both conclude that the revision process itself is necessary, but in practice you have undermined it. Today's Review is below the circumstances, because it is exhausted in problems which could have been solved by parliamentary practice, without having to resort to a change in the constitutional text. Let us focus on those provisions, which will certainly be reviewed, namely one hundred and eighty-one votes in the House proposed. We will see that, in fact, we are going to revise the mistakes of the past, which we ourselves are responsible for, I mean the political forces of the country that have been permanently represented in Parliament over the past decades, whether they are mistakes concerning the election of the President of the Republic, such as the circumvention of the procedure in the last presidential election, which resulted in the blackmailed dismantling of the House or the system of misuse of the provisions on the criminal liability of ministers and parliamentary immunity, or even the reluctance to consent to the election of the independent authorities in order to achieve the majority in the Constitution. But even on the question of committees of inquiry, the current constitutional provision already emphatically urges us, with the small majority of the two-fifths that it provides, to allow their recommendation even by the minority, of course, which the successive majority have never respected. In short, we are talking about a constitutional review which is clearly self-referential. The provisions under review, these in themselves, do not present a problem, have simply been applied incorrectly. However, the parliamentary order, the political elite of the country, which is responsible for this misappropriation, does not hesitate to revise these provisions and to omit other important matters, effectively condemning the country in constitutional immobility for the next decade. Of course, the revised legislature must talk to the past, take into account the political practice and where it needs to intervene remedially in the Constitution, but not when the Constitution itself has good, but what is suffering from its implementation, due to the endemic polarization that prevails for the good in our political morals. Polarization and division will not be curbed by the political system by the revised legislator, but by a real and not by the political fantasy of the country, that is, with capital. The reform legislature is, however, necessary when the constitutional provisions as such make them pathogens in the functioning of the parliamentary system either because they contain defective regulations or because there are no necessary arrangements. In the first case, for example, the provision of Article 90(5), according to which the leadership of the highest courts is determined by the Government, a provision which has undermined the independence of justice, since the appointment of its leadership directly by the Government forged chains of dependence, which cross all levels of judicial authority. However, there are also constitutional provisions which need to be supplemented in order to develop the reformist dynamic, which they themselves already have, which are dynamic, which unfortunately successive parliamentary majorities did not benefit because of the generalized founding inertia of our political system. This, for example, is the case with Article 102(1) which regulates local government. Here, we should at last dare to have a radical reform, to have the joint legislature enforced the obligation to move towards a substantial decentralisation of public administration. In his honor the Change Movement, in both cases, which I mentioned, both in the definition of the leadership of justice and in the local government, has formulated the necessary radical proposals for constitutional revision. But there are other constitutional areas, where this Review should have intervened drastically, for example, the enlargement of democracy, not with the inflationist introduction of the referendum's institution, as SYRIZA suggests with a disguised nerve, the body's necrothor, as demonstrated by the insulting democratic experience of 2015. We have, unfortunately, proposed the popular legislative initiative, which provides the opportunity for a section of the electorate to be activated unreservedly, by immediately submitting the same proposal for a law in this House. So it is worth asking ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, about the real value of the review project, which we are now having this week to complete. More than that, however, we must identify the great missing of the current constitutional review, education, public administration and justice, because these are the three largest patients in the country. And yet, the review project will be completed without even touching them. The ideological decency of both SYRIZA and the New Democracy on the issue of non-governmental, higher education institutions has prevented the revision of Article 16. Starting from a degree of opposing startings, these two parties have essentially excavated Article 16 from the revision, thus cancelling any attempt to renew higher education, the New Democracy, by turning to sacred and inviolable totem the theme of the necessity of setting up private HEIs, and SYRIZA, by occupying the divided opposite position to the same fanaticism. Polarization of ideological obsession prevented the sober discussion of our own proposal to establish non-governmental and non-profit-making higher education institutions. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, with the two other institutions, which are ill and, yet, we are not concerned with them, and the Constitutional Review should give the beginning of the major reform, that is to say, the revised legislator, particularly where successive governments have retreat or defeated. In the field of justice, for example, this is not just about the issue of raising its leadership. There is also the institution of mediation, which I fear, established interest forces will try to castrate on the forthcoming legislative initiative. In the field of public administration, too, there is the question of the evaluation of public services and public officials, which, until now, no government has been able to impose with a claim of seriousness. We insist on these issues, ladies and gentlemen, because these are the major challenges which, unfortunately, are still pending. So because we will not be able today to respond adequately to the level of the Constitution, let us resort to common sense, and if we succeed tomorrow in reaching agreement at the level of the joint legislator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u60	Mrs Catherine Papacosta - Palioura from the New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today, in the top parliamentary procedure, in order to discuss and exchange views, but above all to put forward our proposals at the outset in the Revision of the Constitution, which is also a top political act, as the excellent colleague Mr Javarras and teacher for us younger Members said. It is a political act, which is dependent on the dynamics of times, but above all on the need to see from the outset the crown of our state, with a glance at those that our own evolution obliges us to correct and adapt to the needs of today's reality. The adventure that Greece has experienced in recent years through the financial crisis, which we have experienced, must be a guide to our proposals. I think we will all agree that today, more than ever, we need a constitution, which is based on seriousness, confidence, prediction and social justice. The New Democracy, throughout the process of constitutional revision, began on the basis of the finding that the 1975 Constitution needs to be reviewed, because it no longer serves its purposes today. We must correct the errors of previous revisions and we certainly need a Constitution that will adapt to the lessons of the crisis. It is a common place that the 1975 Constitution was the starting point of quality, parliamentary conscience and political and social responsibility. There was at the same time the most democratic constitution, which Greece had in the post-war period, at the closure of a time that was unleashed by wars, civil turbulences, ethnic divisions, collapse of the social fabric, as it managed to unite the Greeks, leaving them in the past passions and enthusiasms. In fact, at a time when it was marked by the hardest economic crisis in the post-war period, the 1975 Constitution with any amendments and revisions succeeded and firmly maintained our national and cultural identity. The current revision of the Constitution should therefore be a huge political act of responsibility. This is because it is time to see reality with a look at the future, to move forward to redefinition of our national orientation, to protect our worthy code, to modernise our state, to reconstruct our national economy, to activating civil society and to return to a normality, which puts us as Greeks and as Greece as the protagonists of international developments and not just observers of them. But cynical reality makes us restrained. This is because the parliament proposed has limited the scope of the thematic areas of the Review. The previous SYRIZA government, which had a majority, has unfortunately decided not to take account of the New Democracy proposal and has moved forward in the areas to be revised. Ladies and gentlemen, with Mr Tsipras' election tricks, at the same time that we are coming out of the vex of the economic crisis and building the new Greece, we cannot discuss our economic constitution, thus losing a great opportunity to commit, through the lines of the crown of our culture, to the next generations of Greeks that what we have been through in recent years, we will not allow it to happen again. Let me say here, as a lawman, as a parliamentarian, but above all as an active citizen, that this development is a relentless proof that some people have not obviously understood - and unfortunately - the reasons that led our country to the brink of destruction over the last ten years and I am very sorry about that. I am sorry, because we have lost a unique opportunity to intervene in practice, we have lost the opportunity to impose good legislation, we have ultimately lost the opportunity to see today's reality with a look at tomorrow and not yesterday. It is no coincidence that Article 24 on the creation of environmental equivalence is out of discussion, no protection was foreseen for the Greek language and our contemporary cultural identity and - most importantly! - Article 16 continues to keep us stable and limited to a sterile logic of exclusion and a ban on the operation of private universities. With him it remains a monopoly on higher education, while our neighbours invest in this field with extremely academic and financial results. Unfortunately, the proposed parliament worked with the obsessions and ideologies of today's Officership. With this data we need to move on and that is what we need to put in place. I must therefore point out at this point that the Revision Committee of the Constitution with hard work, scientific, but above all, with political responsibility, has succeeded and given life in a reform process that is suffering. In a spirit of cooperation and sincere dialogue he managed to put a sense of responsibility in the suggestions of all the Parliament's wings. And this is a first victory for our entire political system. Today we owe ourselves, but also society, to take a step further. The proposed constitutional changes, which are seven, concern: The minimum guaranteed income system to support the Greek family in Article 21(1) of the Constitution. Thus, we emphasise the principle of the social market economy, a term imposed in the years of the crisis on the fundamental European conditions. The upgrading of the Greek Parliament by our proposal to Article 68 for a committee of inquiry, following a proposal by ten opposition MPs and a hundred and twenty MPs. Our aim, through this proposal, is to strengthen the concept of the Committee of Inquiry and to transform it into a powerful tool of parliamentary control. The strictness of the parliamentary immunity referred to in Article 62 so that immunity can only be mentioned in the exercise of parliamentary duties and in Article 86 that there is no longer any amortization deadline for Ministers. The equalisation of military judges with other judges, so that the independent functioning of military justice can be guaranteed, away from reasonable military courts. To facilitate the election of independent authorities in accordance with Article 101a of the Constitution. Also, the complete and unanimous separation of the procedure for the election of the President of the Republic by the parliamentary elections under Article 32(4) of the Constitution. It is time to stop, finally, the institution of the President of the Republic becoming a game of political pressure and communication, which are blocking the people's mandate and leading to shameful political instability, which we have all witnessed in the recent past. Finally, to facilitate the vote of Greeks abroad - Article 54(4) of the Constitution - in such a way that the anticipated decision of the intergroup does not address issues of constitutionality. Ladies and gentlemen, could they change more? No hesitation, no hesitation, no hesitation. It's true that the critics, the big issues stay out. It is true that we are losing a huge opportunity to move to a new era of social and economic reality. The dogmas of the previous government have led us to lose the possibility, for example, of reviewing Article 16 once again, thus losing the enormous opportunity to repatriate people in the academic sector, to upgrade, through competition, and public higher education, but also to become the capital of education in the Balkans and not only. However, today we are called upon to discuss and agree on the articles to be revised. As a new Member, I would ask the House to consider tomorrow's stability, the stability that our country so badly needs, the prediction that we should never go through the same again, but above all our responsibility as a political system to upgrade and redeem ourselves, first of all, the credibility of our Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u62	Mr Anastasiades has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the revision of the Constitution is a rare and top-level process, where Parliament is solely responsible for it, and each one of us must consider the particular weight of its vote, because the revision of the Constitution is not a mere amendment to a common law. It is the change in the country's Charter, which regulates the functioning of the constitution, which guarantees the functioning of the country's democratic system of governance and, of course, regulates the relationship between democracy and the rule of law. The 1975 Constitution, the pioneer for its time, democratic and liberal, is the longest-lived constitution of the Greek state. Forty-five years it has been - and it has been - the foundation of the most quality and stable parliamentary democracy which our country has ever experienced. Why? Because it is a constitution that is strict and at the same time open. It is strict because it can protect itself against attempts to circumvent it - Article 110 - and, of course, protect the hard core of our national and political worthy system. And it is open, because it can adapt to modern trends, without causing a alteration of the constitutional framework of our country. In our time, where everything is questioned and redefined, the Revision of the Constitution could be a golden opportunity to protect our national and cultural identity, reconstruction and state modernisation. Unfortunately, this opportunity in the largest part of it has been lost. The Proposing House, i.e. the majority of the previous period, SYRIZA, despite the New Democracy's proposal for broad revision, succumbed to its ideas and limited the review process. Thus, we have not been given the opportunity to open up and modernise important chapters of the Constitution, which are crucial for the functioning of our culture. Article 16 is indicative. Greece could develop into an international educational centre, attract capital, but also create new jobs, scientific jobs, and thus retain many of the young people of our country, the scientists, who leave the country to find jobs. The refusal then proposed parliament condemns the country to remain behind Europe for many years. The same is true of Article 24 on the environment, on the one hand, as regards the definition of forests, which is crucial for land uses and, on the other, for climate change. And we will repress this with a delay of about ten years. I believe that no serious consideration has been taken of the proposed majority at the time. Its proposals were handy, fragmented, unrelated to each other and irrelevant to the challenges facing our country. The proposals for religious neutrality, for the political oath, for the referendums and the election of the President of the Republic by the people, from the basis, which, in the end, would alter the form of our constitution. Nevertheless, we must accept, ladies and gentlemen, that the Constitutional Review Committee has worked exemplaryly and within a climate, I would say, consensus, consensus, dialogue, cooperation, has achieved a number of important results. The establishment of the minimum guaranteed income in support of the Greek family, the upgrading of the Greek Parliament to enable the minority to set up a committee of inquiry, the tightening up of the immunity and Members and Ministers and the separation of the election of the President of the Republic from the elections are typical cases for the results achieved. Finally, there is the institution of facilitating Greeks abroad to exercise their electoral right from their residence. This was considered necessary in order not to address issues of unconstitutionality, which is due to come to parliament in the next few days. The need came from the preconditions that some opposition parties have set in terms of the physical presence, namely the exclusion of the letter vote and the two years of residence in Greece over the last thirty-five years. Of course, our proposal, the New Democracy proposal, is well known and remains well known. Greeks from abroad could vote at their place, as they would have been able to vote if they traveled to Greece, in their constituency, freely and universally. In order for this opportunity not to be lost, however, because it is an issue that has been in the hands of many years and the political scene, but also of our relative compatriots, the New Democracy has retreated from its initial positions and made compromises. That's why the law will come, as has been said. This will displease several of our compatriots living abroad, but it was the last solution. Finally, I should like to express my congratulations to the chairman of the committee, Mr Evripidis Stylianides, and to all the members of the committee, because in a spirit of cooperation, understanding, composition and democratic dialogue, they have achieved - I believe - a great deal more than we originally expected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u64	Mrs Rapti has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the constitutional review process is undoubtedly the top institutional functioning of the Greek Parliament. With this choice, the editorial legislator is engaging in his confidence in us, the elected representatives of the Greek people, in the creation of a charter of the country, the framework, that is, within which the country will move in the next few years. Unfortunately, the previous majority of the SYRIZA did not move to the importance of the revised consensus framework in order to promote, with a broad cross-party consensus, the revisions of those articles and provisions, which really had to change in order to upgrade the content of our state's fundamental law. Thus, it did not accept or open up the debate on all constitutional issues, as we called for as opposition, so that we could allow the Review House, which would result from the elections, to decide neither the substantiated reform proposals of the New Democracy, almost in their entirety. Our proposals aimed at reforming institutional procedures in order to achieve economic progress, social solidarity, normal legislation and more rapid administration of justice, in line with the lessons of the recent crisis that our country experienced. On the contrary, the previous parliamentary majority incorporated in the process a series of ideological proposals which attempted to alter the substance of the Review and to form political and only impressions addressed to its narrow party audience, rather than looking at the benefits that may arise for the country. On the one hand, the absolute refusal of the previous majority to agree on the need to revise Article 16, so that - at last - the establishment of non-state universities can be allowed - so that it can only be possible for many years later. This was done at the expense of our education and economy, leaving an important opportunity, as Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis said, to become Greece a real educational city in the Mediterranean and across Southeast Europe and to stop the economic bleeding of families abroad, as well as the fleeing of our young children. It is obvious that after the establishment of recognized Greek-speaking non-State universities in Cyprus, the refusal of the previous majority, even to discuss the issue, is equivalent to "with a catastrophic blindness for the country", to borrow the words of my professor Nikos Alvizatou. As the President of our Commission, Mr Stylianidis, the establishment of non-State universities, would aggressively put the country in the new international education market of 30 billion, creating a new source for GDP greater than tourism. Unfortunately, this opportunity has been lost. Furthermore, SYRIZA's obsession with the unnecessary review of Article 3 of the Constitution on Church-State relations has also been typical of establishing a naive religious neutrality of the state, which, as an ideal and only approach, can be characterized, since it has no substantial practical usefulness, since it is known that Article 13 of our Constitution effectively protects the religious freedom of all citizens, whatever religion they follow. A similarly 'ideoleptic' could characterise SYRIZA's proposals for a constitutional introduction of simple proportionalness, so that the country never actually has a stable government, as well as the proposal for the six-month voting for the election of the President of the Republic, which would lead to an institutional paralysis of a lasting nature. Today, however, it is necessary for this House to complete the review process, which was initiated, as it was a common place that an institutional fatigue has occurred on the one hand in certain provisions of this Constitution and errors in previous revisions must be corrected and, on the other, society must be given a message of national relaunching our country towards a new, better era for everyone through the regeneration of the institutions of the Greek state. True, the Constitutional Review is not considered by many as a ruptured one. However, at this point I would like to stress that it was particularly encouraging for the public dialogue of our political system, that the turnout of the representatives of the parties to the committee was sealed by soberness, coolness and a high scientific level, which leaves such an illusion of light, that we can and must come to an understanding on top national issues. I hope we're not disgusting. This is the main concern of the New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, as a parliamentary majority, as this mandate was given to us by the citizens on 7 July, that is to say, to stand away from populism and micro-participatory interests and to work together to rebuild the place. In addition, despite the fact that it had become clear during the public debate that this House is not bound by its previous proposals, we have had a thorough debate on the revised provisions, divided over seventy hours and reached the proposed institutional changes that we are presently giving to Parliament, in order for it, as a sovereign body, to decide. With regard to the revised provisions, it is clear that priority in this procedure is given to those who have raised the majority of more than eighty votes in the proposed Parliament, which we have also supported in the current parliamentary majority. But here I would particularly like to focus on the important aspect of the revision of Rule 54 for the vote of Greek voters abroad, which I have had the honour of supporting as a special rapporteur for the New Democracy committee. The addition of a relevant paragraph to this Article now sets out the conditions for facilitating Greek voters abroad to exercise their right to vote from their place of residence. It is a leading consensual initiative of our resignation and of the Prime Minister in order to vote, after the Revision of the Constitution, by a large majority of the relevant bill in the House and, finally, our compatriots who live and work abroad, many hunted by the economic crisis, exercise their electoral right from their place of residence. Ladies and gentlemen, the importance and need for the completion of this review process is self-evident. I would like to take this step by thanking the excellent lawyers, both the chairman of our committee, Euripidis Stylianides and our rapporteur-general, Mr Kostas Javara, and all the members of the committee who have made a creative contribution to the debate with great scientific and political arguments and prepared the relevant report in good time for the plenary to decide. However, in order to last and end up with the revised constitutional text, we need to reach the broadest possible cross-party consensus on its content, with unobstructed debate and substantial consultation, with arguments and not slogans, so that we can find broader acceptance solutions within Parliament, at the heart of democracy. It is, moreover, a timely demand for society to come to an agreement and finally reach joint decisions on the major issues of the place so that they can be consistent, in the interests of the state, the security of law and the well-being of citizens. So in response to the expectations of all those who have elected us, I am convinced that we will deliver to Greek society a Constitution that is more democratic, more social law and with stronger institutions for our state in the years to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u66	The former President of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Voutsis, has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is really very important, because we all know that the Constitution is the condensation of the socio-political needs of every context in the wider - every historic phase, one would say - but also of correlations in which they are condensed within its provisions. In particular, for our country, which has been involved for years in a wider Union structure, it is clear that it is important to demarcate this concentration, as is done every time. Since I, as a Member of Parliament, am grateful for the very good, rapid, but also essential work done by our colleagues in the committee and I thank them for the completeness of the opinions they have brought us, so that we can get on with it, I would like to say that I will not be tempted to characterize as ideological any proposals that are either left out of the vote or that there is a obsession on the opposite side. On the other hand, I think - and I will be standing in this regard - that there are proposals for anachronistic and problematic, attempting by the present majority of the House to form elements of our Constitutional Code. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this process does not take place within a neutral historic period. It is after a crisis - where very importantly, I would say, perhaps it could be seen as extreme - it has been heard this morning and correctly - at a time when it has even worked at the limit of a Memorandum of Understanding, the issues and situations that have been raised and, of course, there have been social and institutional obstacles, on the basis of the Memorandum and other commitments. It is also a debate that is taking place in a more general international and European debate about what is called the 'post-democracy phase', a strict concept which raises a question of restoring to a large extent certain basic values of democracy, with assumptions in Union law that have been made over all these years on our part, which are integrated through the procedures of codes or other decisions, additional elements of legislation and, of course, with current and evolving government policy. It has also been quite rightly heard this morning - I think the SYRIZA rapporteur - that articles or proposals are being made by the government here, from the very recent - within the quarter, four months - elements of a government policy, which shows exactly where the government wants to take it. Otherwise, it would be a debate - one could say theoretical, anyone could have an argument. I would like to say that we are proud to be SYRIZA - I say this from the heart - that without any regular logic we have made progress in this process last year - a year ago, a year ago, we have also had a wider debate - and this debate has taken place here in our minds - that another majority, which would then have its own logic in relation to the Constitution, could come about. I would like to mention two things here in relation to what my colleagues have said. See the proposals that you submitted to us in 2014 for the Constitutional Review. You will see that you have moved to key issues. Therefore, you do not think - and indeed, after another four years of crisis have passed - that your objections to the previous governmental majority are self-evident. But above all, I wanted to tell you on the subject of direction. Of course - and we have said so at the end, if I remember correctly, of the procedure proposed a year ago - the next Parliament, that is, this Revision - and since the people's vote has been taken on the basis of the different views on the Constitution - has not been adopted, it will not vote in favour of a provision which, in its direction, has been agreed by the House. It is, however, truly paradoxical - and it is also for the future and for the constitutionalists - that there should be a procedure in which, in the proposed parliament, no matter what its views are, everyone votes on them all, only for what we call the 'fruit morning' children, namely, let this article then enter and see them, and depending on what happens after the elections to conclude and try to constitutionalise the very opposite direction to it, which had been voted on last time. It's a problem. It is not that simple and I would ask that it be addressed in the next few days. I would like to say straight away that some extremes - I would say them - have been avoided - attempts to constitutionalise neo-liberalism, but the direction proposed today, the majority, leads to a constitutionalisation of neo-conservation - that is clear enough beyond the needs that the country has, following such a long crisis and, indeed, we are experiencing the wider crisis, on a European scale. It is a maintenance monument - not to say anything else - that the insistence on relations between the State and the Church, that is, the immigrant obsession, while all the other forces of Parliament and the previous Parliament - I remember the proposals that you made from the point of view of KINAL and the other parties - was already in the process of practical modernisation of this relationship, of distinctiveness and of change on this issue. Nor can I understand the insistence on not including the particular wording of the interpretative provision - what does it matter to us? - in relation to not being a bribe in the duties of the Minister. Why should this be left to the future - I see a little ahead - we or some others in this Chamber - continually appeals for unconstitutional or non-constitutional powers of Parliament, the Chamber of Parliament, for proposals which will come in the future, possibly for members of the political staff of the country and not to be clarified in the joint experience we have had in these years and in constitutional terms? I think this is a serious matter and we should look at it. Of course, there have been some proposals, which help to upgrade the parliamentary work and could by a particular process - I say this to a certain extent and self-criticism - in the previous phase there should also be further common positions on this issue in order to upgrade parliamentary work. However, it is important that, on the side of the Coupling, it comes today as a crown for this constitutional review - I also see it from journalists in the press - the issue of the President of the Republic and the election of the President of the Republic. In fact, I believe that it creates extremely negative impressions, which is already going on two or three months before the election of the President of the Republic, that it is possible - we read it around - as if nothing is going on - with a hundred and fifty-one or less in the voting process to come up with, that the President of the Hellenic Republic should be chosen. How did you get there, how did the New Democracy come to this position, when the broad agreement was in place, which is cleared from the dissolution of this House and from the different perception of political things so far? Indeed, twice there was a dissolution of the House, because the President of the Republic had not been chosen. How did we get to the point that it was self-evident and acceptable and democratically accepted that the President of the Republic should be chosen from within a very narrow party option really creates a very big question. Like also, let me say that I cannot hear the problematic way in which a number of Members from the Communism speak about the vote of the homosexuals, when it is known that during the entire post-government period, on a constitution, which is common belief that at its core is - and acted as such - democratic and in relation to the other European Constitutions, you have not made any effort to approach and resolve this issue, when it was possible in the then two-partyism that was resolved - not solved, to God - by the fact that for two three months before there were no positions - you know that - on planes and everywhere they came from where they could, wherever you wanted and where you were to come to vote. All of a sudden, they are all saying that we are from another state and we do not know the real issues. Turn - because we really want to approach and heal this issue together - to legislate, if possible, through the rich dialogue between the parties on the proposals, which ensures maximum consensus. Nor is it understandable - beyond the economic dimension, which has been taken over by Mr Stylianides, and that is what I am obliged to respect, although I obviously do not agree - that much controversy on the famous issue of private universities and on Article 16. Let me tell you that there are attempts here to reduce students, cut schools, cut universities. Those who went out went for job and crisis reasons. They didn't go because they didn't have a school to enter Greece. Throughout the previous period, you know very well that our children have been at 70% and 80% in universities. Those who went to the three schools that gave the IB and go out to the universities have this possibility or have this culture or the mood from their home to do so. This does not remove anything from Greece, which is obviously not compared to a number of other countries mentioned, but which has a very great history of excellent universities and culture of higher education at the highest possible level, produces excellent scientists and nobody is lost, and with an existing social mobility that is very important. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I think that it would really be an opportunity, our country, coming out of the crisis - I said it two years ago - instead of facing ghosts, skeletons, ideas about the various triplets that we have now remembered on the occasion of the Polytechnic School - 'patients, religion, family' and all - to have a modernistic mood, both in the rights and freedoms, in the guarantees of the social state, in the Greek provisions of the expansion of the people's participation, in relations between the State - Church and in a number of other issues, which have appeared through the crisis that they need aid and which are not the result of the narrow programmes of the parties. I told you that more could be discussed on these issues, which I remember had been proposed by other political forces in the previous phase - and by you some and more of you - but you then withdrew them, in view of the final procedure, which I remember exactly how it was done. However, positive proposals have been put forward and we could be much richer and much more consensually approaching this constitutional review. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] Even if this step is to be taken, but in the next few days I think it will be extremely revealing, through the political debates that are taking place about what progress means, what maintenance means, who sees in front, who sees backwards, who see in a Europe, who only if changed, can be as a common home or who cares for the most conservative in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition by the Chamber of the "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, forty-four students and students and three educational sessions from the 11th High School of Patras (second Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Taradilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, the text of the proposed provisions is the result of a fruitful and meaningful dialogue within the Review Committee. I will focus on some of the proposed provisions, which are of particular interest to me, because they concern the wider Hellenism and also because they are linked to the smooth functioning of our culture. I begin with the proposal of the New Democracy to add paragraph 4 to Article 54 of the Constitution on the question of the vote of Greek voters abroad. The purpose of the proposed provision is to make it possible to energise the participation of Greeks abroad in the parliamentary elections and to define at constitutional level the main axes of the legislation. In this way, firstly, we relieve the legislator of all sorts of reservations and endless discussions about the possible unconstitutionality of legislation and, secondly, we allow the legislator to move in comfort and power, by making legislative arrangements from a range of possible legislative options. We therefore propose the following framework within which the legislator can move in order to activate the institution of the vote of Greeks abroad in the parliamentary elections: firstly, the exercise of the electoral right, such as the personal presence in an election station or the presence in the country for a certain period of time cumulatively in the past. Secondly, there may be mandatory positions in the predominant ballot in Greeks of the resultant Hellenism. Thirdly, there can be provision for the measurement of the Greeks' vote abroad in all the constituencies, or exclusively at the level of dominance. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the national obligation to activate the Greeks' vote, not just for symbolic reasons, but firstly because the Constitution itself protects it. And I am not talking about Article 51(3) of the Constitution, which provides for that possibility. Firstly, I am referring to the statuteal and non-revised provision of Article 1(3), which concerns the very form of the constitution and states that all the powers of the constitution exist in favour of the people, therefore of the nation, namely the broader Greekism. Secondly, I am referring to the provision of Article 51(2) of the Constitution, which stipulates that the MPs represent the nation, so also the Greeks abroad, so also through foreign parliamentarians. But now the institution of the vote of Greeks abroad is imposed by our own history. It is of primary and fundamental importance that we keep the Hellenism united and make it a social, responsible and active person in the face of the geopolitical challenges that we face. Greece has always been, ladies and gentlemen, and will remain something much greater than the sum of the history of the people of only one region. We here and now, having the honour of being members of the Greek Parliament, must show responsibility, consensual and practical in this matter. The need for the proper functioning of the constitution is the revision of Article 32(4) and the election of the President of the Republic by a simple majority of the Parliament without prior recourse to elections. The objective for the election in the position of the President of the Republic of broad acceptance and consent shall of course not be abandoned. However, the elimination of the possibility of provoking elections from the election process of the President of the Republic and hence the party work of the institution gives essential meaning to the three votes with an increased majority required by our Constitution and directs the political forces represented in the House to achieve the first vote of the broadest possible consensus, away from circumstances and purposes. I will continue with the review of Rule 68(2) and the proposed setting-up of committees of inquiry by a decision of the two-fifths of all Members. After more than forty years, that is, since the 1975 Constitution, where the decision to set up committees of inquiry is recognised as a right and I would say rather a privilege of self-control of the governmental majority, for the first time today expressly and clearly, as is appropriate in a constitutional text and in a modern Parliament accepting minority rights, the right to set up committees of inquiry and minority groups is granted, since the proposal is voted in favour of all of the Members. The setting-up of committees of inquiry with the power to monitor the government's majority, as it was up to now, becomes an essential right to minority voting and parliamentary control that can be exercised in the work of the government is strengthened. The revision at this point is in the interests of the functioning of Parliament. Equally important is the proposed revision of Article 86(3) that the abolition of the special deadline for prosecuting the Ministers should be allowed, a provision which has been introduced to prevent charges being perpetuated against the Ministers, but unfortunately it has led to the irresponsibleness of the ministers. The short-term amortisation period, not only, does not allow the House to effectively carry out the work conferred on it by Article 86, but it has created the image of a general privileged treatment of the ministers, which seems to enjoy a peculiar duty-free regime. The abolition of this deadline and the validity of the rules on limitations applicable to all citizens strengthen the functioning of the House, even if it is called upon to seek responsibilities against the Ministers, but also to strengthen the sense of public confidence in the functioning of the institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Vlavo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am really proud that I have been serving, for decades now, ideas of a party that at critical times for our country has always seen ahead. At this time it was 1975 when the then parliament passed the current constitution. As today, forty-five years ago, Constantine Karamanlis formed the first parliamentary post-regulatory government, and the parliament that emerged had the huge responsibility for drawing up a democratic constitution, a constitution that had to last year and to take out the country from the deadlocks it had led to in the past. So this constitution, which was passed, proved through this course that it was really the cornerstone for the functioning of democracy, and which all political forces at times invoked today, of course, to demonstrate its usefulness and effectiveness, as well as its strength in time. I would like to remind you, however, that the political forces of the time did not vote for this constitution and some people left and some even worse denounced it. Of course, the years have passed, but the responsibilities certainly remain and certainly change in time, but there are today too. Our rapporteurs, our excellent colleagues, will analyse the issues separately and argue. But, through this overall process, what will be left at the end will be bitterness, because this constitutional review will not have been carried out in its entirety, it will not, if you like, carry out its mission. And that's what's going to stay in the world, because what we agreed, if you like, is much too much for society to think. On the contrary, he cannot interpret what we did not agree. And of course, I want to dwell today, at the very short time that I have, in three controversial articles, the famous Article 16, Article 24 and Article 117. With regard to Article 16, we insist - perhaps the only country in the world - that we do not want non-state universities. And of course, in the end, from the vote, as I said, there will be responsibilities. Someone needs to charge this politically. They need to know the parents who send their children abroad into doubt, if you want, efficiency universities because they are doing this and who are the ones who have refused it. And, of course, the great opportunity was then lost in 2005-2006 and from the parliament that came to light, because the then PASOK of George Papandreou refused in the context of an internal party dispute with Mr Venizelos and the youth of PASOK to change Article 16. And what am I supposed to do today when KINAL, your political successors and heirs, come and fight and say "something we need to do about Article 16, change it"? At the critical moment they didn't have the daring. Nowadays they're crying the shed milk. Like SYRIZA, along the way it may change its position, but it will have been lost for many years, there will be opportunities lost and some people will have been afflicted. So the parents should know who holds, if you like, a commitment to the country yesterday and who sends their children, as I have said, to a university abroad. And I come to the second, the famous Article 24 and Article 117. Constantine Karamanlis was unable to predict everything with this Constitution in depth and changes had to be made. We have spoken and talked about updating the definition of the forest and Article 24. Because through these decades there have been many weaknesses, weaknesses which citizens live every day. Those who are currently trading in the Land register and are mainly waiting for and seeing the suspension of forest maps are indeed in front of huge surprises. And no one has wondered why this register, this register over the years, has been unable to be completed. Because we are all going around ourselves, we are supposed to have the political will to move on, but we do not have the courage to change things, to say things by their name. So, for example, we try to post and draw up forest maps, for what chronology, with what aerial photographs? No way? With yesterday? What did we see in 1936 and 1945? Or with what we always said as a first party of Constantine Mitsotakis, what was recorded in 1975? Why 1975? Because it's the time to vote for the constitution. Neither before nor after. And what was then to apply forever to clarify the scenery. Today in the area where I live and move politically one surprise succeeds the other. Forest maps are posted, most of them characterize forests as industrial areas. Half the factory in Coroppi is a forest. And he says: you must now appeal. Do you know when these appeals will be dealt with? Ten years later. So what's left of the public? This deadlock, that nothing changes, there in the House, everyone finds it among themselves, and when it comes to it's time to dare and make substantial changes, that is, to say, to say things with their name, as they are, they don't really care about them, they do something else. So, today and in closing, I would like to say to all my fellow citizens in Attica, but also to all of Greece, who will be troubled the next time by posting the forest maps, who will be running for appeals, which will be spent, which will not be able to clear up their assets, that they need to know that for this suffering - at least I say suffering - there are politically responsible people. It is those political forces that have refused - all right, they have not understood it before - but now in this Review they dare to change Article 24, to update it, to modernise it, to do so efficiently. To know, then, that there is a responsibility and to know in what direction they should seek it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u72	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr Janakopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u73	A top parliamentary procedure is taking place in plenary today, after a hard work that has been done before the House, as well as at the meetings of the committees of the Revision Parliament, which is concerned with the Constitution. What's the Constitution? Firstly, this legal text of increased formal power which establishes a structure of economic and political sovereignty. That's what Meness means when he says the Constitution is looking toward the past. It is, however, at the same time, as the former President of the Parliament, Nikos Voutsis, and the condensation of power within this structure of economic and political sovereignty. In other words, the Constitution creates a form of certain limits, but within which political confrontation and political conflict can transform contents in one or the other direction, depending on the interests they sometimes gain in political battle. If, then, we see the Constitution through this perspective and through this prism, we realise that the consensus on the Revision of the Constitution is neither political nor moral selfishness. And that is what I have to say here today, because it also defines the conditions of political and ideological controversy around the Constitution by clarifying that precisely this debate on constitutional revision cannot be subsided into a form of consensus. Because, beware, the basic theoretical, political, legal and moral position supported by the New Democracy is that the Constitution must be devoured from any fundamental restriction on the market and all protectionist care for citizens in order to create the legal conditions so that the market can define priorities, institutions, hierarchies and content. This type of void Constitution, which is just a form of defining the organisational terms of the political conflict, is the Constitution in which SYRIZA can never agree. And I think it was precisely this guiding idea, which led the new Republic's rapporteur, Mr Javarra, to insist on a procedural approach to the Constitution. This procedural approach, however, is neither moral nor politically neutral. In other words, it cannot be the only legitimisation of a political decision to be the process. On the other hand, the legal function of the procedure, the production of the law or the legal function of the executive to produce regulations, are limited to the substantive weightings which the Constitution makes, the weightings that arise precisely through the war conflict and confrontation. Parliament cannot decide what it wants. On the contrary, it finds limits for Parliament and the executive power precisely to the substantive weightings of the Constitution, which is not the procedural approach recommended on the part of the New Democracy, it will be able to understand and understand. So it is this perspective from which SYRIZA sees the review process in general, not this review process, but any revision process. In particular, however, here in this review process, in this particular review we are dealing with a moment and a time when we are taking place after a overwhelming social and economic crisis. And it is this experience of the crisis that we all have to take into account, and it is precisely this experience of the crisis that fuels our proposals and positions, that is, the positions of SYRIZA. To say this with one phrase: Our proposals are made from the point of view of opt-out, the state of exception, which has been imposed de facto over the past few years in the country, and our proposal aims to strengthen the operation of the Constitution just as a limit, as a restriction on the state of exception. Some examples of this are absolutely enlightening. As regards, for example, the architecture of the political system, all the previous years, regardless of their political and ideological positions, and regardless of whether they wanted to retreat, there have been suffocating pressures on the part of institutions, which do not draw legal power from popular sovereignty, they do not draw their legitimacy immediately from the Greek people. So the political system needs to consider this to see how it shields governments, parliaments from this type of suffocating pressures, given the existing boundaries of this constitution, which can reach a certain point in protecting precisely the government's choices of democracy, etc., given the unfavourable global correlation of power. We say, then, that the way in which this immunity can be obtained is related to the strengthening of the government towards institutions which operate disciplinaryly and do not draw their legitimacy directly from the people. How do you do that? You do this by creating the conditions for the uninterrupted completion of the four-year period. Here, for example, comes the constructive vote of distrust, but which finds another, internally in Parliament, a balancing mechanism that is no more than just proportional. And so the Communist Party - whose criticism I am hearing very carefully - says that the constructive vote of distrust creates 'Sincere Walls' between the social struggles and the results, which these social struggles may have in the fall of a government or in the instability of the political system. Indeed. However, the point here is that we, at least, have a constructive vote of distrust, which is seen within a balancing mechanism, which is, in essence, finalised in simple proportion. That is to say, there is no constructive vote of distrust without the constitutional introduction of the mere actuarial. I believe that this is also some way to change the criticism, which should be made on this side. But what's he doing? In fact, it protects the government from suffocating pressures, from extortion, which can be carried out externally and at the same time protects Parliament, but it also protects the conditions for the formation of social alliances by means of mere analogy. Working on how the Constitution can function as a limit? We've seen it. The only argument that the troika has retreated over the previous years and to which it was unable to find a bypass mechanism was the Supreme Court of the country, which said that unilateral referral to arbitration is the result of the constitutional article of this constitutional provision. In other words, there is its obligation under the current constitution. So, then, there is the functioning of the Constitution's limit even in the most suffocating forms of pressure for reasons of social, historical and political relevance to the inability to legitimise certain institutions when things reach the point of constitutional conflict. I could multiply the list of cases where the Constitution can obviously be limited to a limit, without meaning that we are governed by legal naivety that everything can be solved at the level of the Constitution or that the level of the Constitution can act as a guarantee of social well-being without any other conditions being met. What I would like to conclude is that today, as many speakers in the New Democracy have said, but for other reasons, we are losing an opportunity to shield parliamentary democracy from the external suffocating pressures that it is taking in a globalised environment and to shield social rights and, in particular, labour rights from an inconsistent operation of the market. But we lose the opportunity and take a first step in the direction of distinguishing roles of the Church and State with the insistence of the New Democracy not to support a mature reform effort that must take place after two hundred years of narrow embrace of the Greek State with the Greek Church. Instead of all this, we have a neo-conservative review. But not just a neo-conservative Review, but we also have a Review that is in danger of becoming part of a comprehensive New Democracy strategy for the total suffocation of all forms of public life. In these four months we have often highlighted this New Democracy strategy on suffocating public life, institutions, parliamentary functions. Let me tell you the examples of ERT, to tell you the examples of ERTE, to tell you the examples of the State Theatre of Northern Greece. I could multiply the list by tomorrow morning. The problem and the accident here is that it comes up to the President of the Republic to join this hardcore if you want a deep right-wing state control strategy. With what logic? In the sense that the President of the Republic, on the basis of your proposal, can only be elected by the parliamentary majority, without the elections being held. This, in our opinion, is completely disturbing the balance of the Constitution and is disturbing and the functioning of the institution of the President of the Republic, which must be the regulator of the constitution, must be the point of balance where it does not allow suspicion at times when the political system is in transition, that is, when we move from one House to another, from one government to another. That is precisely why, with your proposal, you are triggering a substantial and deep suspicion of all the political parties in terms of the top balance-sheet function that the President of the Republic should have and in this sense tell you: Rethink it, find ways to enable the political system to be led to consent to the minimum degree of equilibrium required to be condensed and symbolized on the face of the President of the Republic. Let me close with two critical remarks. First critical remark: Article 86 of the Constitution. It is a deep-seated demand to abolish the different criminal treatment of the ministers in relation to all other citizens. That is not to say, the short deadline laid down in Article 86(3) of the Constitution, but, at the same time, there is a possibility through the interpretative declaration that we are proposing. It's not about retroactive power and you know it very well. Why is an interpretative statement on the substance of what it is doing? It clarifies the true meaning of the article, without meaning that it changes the article retroactively. On the other hand, it clarifies what that article meant and what was its meaning since it came into force. One wonders: In view of the fact that a favourable provision that has caused such social unrest and such a social suspicion to the political system for its operation over the past few years, what prevents you from voting on this interpretative statement? What is it that keeps you and why do you choose not to allow or try not to allow regular justice to investigate past bribery cases through your refusal to vote on this interpretative statement? Do you really not understand that in this way you are actually exacerbating the crackdown that exists between society and the political system? Do you not understand that you are creating enormous contempt for policies, in essence, that may lead you to this refusal to vote in favour of the interpretative statement? Vote on it and won't get out of the political system damaged by such a brave choice, which you still have the opportunity to make. I'm closing with Article 16. I see it as one of the main points of all New Democracy Members' positions. Look: All the arguments of Co-operation are supported and fed in relation to the revision of Article 16 by a non-existent, in fact, treaty, that supposedly throughout Europe there are private universities or non-State universities. You know that, in fact, none of the major European institutions, which are leading in the production of knowledge and research, are a private university. Even in England, private universities are nothing but marginalized institutions which have no contribution either to the production of knowledge or of course to academic teaching. In fact, the only reason why I appreciate that the New Democracy wants to revise Article 16 is to create the conditions for the creation of mass clientele in some extremely low quality, of course, in relation to university education, education and institutions. To create customers, but also to create conditions on the basis of the free market, even in the sensitive area of university education, with the sole aim of serving specific private interests. This does not honor university education in Greece, it does not honor the way in which we should understand the functioning of academic education in Greece. In this sense, you can say it directly that you want to create market incursion conditions in university education and leave that part of the argument relating to the quality of the education provided or the quality of the research activities. They have nothing to do with the revision of Article 16 of this type of argument. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u74	Thank you. Mr. Highlands, sit down. You are a little unlucky, because Mrs Papayannakis had asked for the floor earlier, and she should have preceded it. And lucky, of course, together!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u75	It is an honor, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u76	Mrs. Papariga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u77	The debate before the committee and the debate that was initiated today in plenary has shown that all parties - apart from the JRC, it is understood - are - beyond the superstitious admiration and respect for this constitution, which, of course, legitimises, introduces - could not do anything else - the possibility of a minority being indulged and welded on the wealth produced by the people and the wealth on earth, beyond this main and fundamental, that the Constitution must bring certain changes - here there is disagreement on the number of articles and changes - and, above all, to avoid confronting certain problems that have arisen or inherited the crisis. But above all, to resolve two issues: the stability of the political system - we are also putting the word 'civil' political system - and the restoration of the lost price of this system or the reduction of its prestige or the lost price of political people, MPs, ministers, etc. First of all, in spite of all this debate, despite the differences, that threw one party or another, it seemed that the great power of the urban political system, the strength of stability, is just through the multi-partyism of the parties that support the system or consider that historical social evolution ends in capitalism and is utopia all the others and through this multi-partyism, through diversity, unity is guaranteed. It's not our term. It's a condition that was announced in the 1990s, but I'm using it, because some understand why I'm saying it. So unity through diversity. In the years of the crisis, has the urban political system been destabilised? It's become much stronger. There may have been a breakdown, which did not wait for him, which was not seen by the fact that millions of voters left New Democracy and especially the PASOK. There may have been a difficulty in forming a government for the moment. However, the crisis has shown another thing, in the face of the danger to the system, that the people should make use of their difficulties or, if you like, in the face of the risk of malfunctioning the system to make it difficult for their objectives. You see, we had governments that were ten or fifteen years ago, if we supported it, they would fool us: New Democracy - PASOK - LAOS, New Democracy - PASOK - DIMAR, SYRIZA - ANEL etc. I must tell you that the major factor in strengthening and restoring the stability of the political system was the social democratisation of the SYRIZA and its cooperation with the ANELs. Don't be unfair. The urban political system has become stronger, it has emerged stronger than the crisis. The people, of course, not. We say the opposite to the people. It must take advantage of any cracks that exist in the political system - we make it clear - in terms of class struggle and movement, otherwise these cracks, if the movement does not counter-attack, can be exploited from far-right or other nationalist viewpoints and we are not indifferent to this issue. The stabilization of the system has been achieved. What do you want now? What are you afraid of? There's one fear in all the parties. I won't make a surname placement. There is one fear, because he sees this whole situation, that capitalism is experiencing serious problems, unfortunately not by an upcoming global and in Greece a class movement, not by a strong popular alliance in Greece too, but is facing serious contradictions internally, its own, because its historical boundaries are finite, regardless of the fact that the movement is in decline. Here you want to deal with such issues that may create malfunctions. In the background, however, there is also class fear of prevention, because they understand that the global retreat of the labour, the folk, the revolutionary movement is temporary, painful, unprecedented, but undeniably temporary. So he wants to be shielded. Whatever you do, as nice literary poetic expressions and find to formulate the articles of the Constitution, this will be more authoritarian, more undemocratic. I heard Mr Janakopoulos, who said the following thing before. Honestly, I didn't think so. I am waiting for your position, but I did not expect the way you raised it. I had you more capable of covering up certain things. We all have our unfortunate moments and I too many times and perhaps most of them. You said this, that in the circumstances of the crisis the pressures of the European Union with the memoranda and so on were addressed. And if we had a constitution, it could shield us from pressure. Why do you not propose the abolition of those articles that give priority to international law - you understand what this is - in international conventions, in the European Union, in NATO, etc. even affecting the hard core of the national state hierarchy? We have proposed that they should be abolished. Of course, their abolition means a conflict and a break with the European Union and NATO. Now you complain that Pompeo has come and said that "you know, we are dealing with the issues with Turkey and Greece in the interests of the United States" etc. What are you under pressure? Let's not get to talk like that. We have now heard from Mr Varoufakis the term 'dollarage'. Look, both Mr. Katrugalos and Mr. Tsakalotos know liberalism. Don't take us five hundred years back. Indeed, liberalism was a progressive urban ideology in so far as it fought the pre-capitalist elements that went through and at the early stage in capitalism or fought to defeat feudalism. That's where you're taking us to that? What liberalism and neoliberalism and green horses? Of course, the ideology of capitalism is evolving and all ideologies take into account developments. She is more barbaric, more violent, and not only is evolving, but in phases she becomes fascist, Muslim, extreme right, racist, etc. So let go now. Those who strive to shield the urban political system are precisely basic supports of the system. We despite the fact that we know which Constitution we are dealing with and do not see it at all as religion - this is an objective fact - we say that the system could not be any more. However, we are struggling from now on and we do not underestimate it at all: as far as possible by laws, whether or not formally, the conditions of class struggle can be made as free as possible. We don't underestimate it at all. Will you tell me that even if there were no restrictions on the strike in the Constitution, would the strike be free? No, because there is also State repression, there is employers, but there is also national and public interest, the most classic expressions in this system. Is there a single public and national interest in a class society? Where and where? Or these about popular sovereignty through the vote? We have now added the referendums, but with limited power, not to affect budgets, not to affect one or the other. From this section, therefore, diversity is a major factor in stabilising the urban political system. Besides, there were problems of forming governments in several countries of the European Union and the first factor that helped stabilise the urban political system was the cooperation of social democracy with Christian democracy in Germany and not just. So don't cry. But you want even more stable urban political system and want it for the parties who serve the system or consider utopia to fight to overthrow it, since of course the conditions are created through everyday life. I'm going to set an example. More classic article than the article that talks about minimum guaranteed income and the minimum level of living does not exist. This is a purely class article and is seen as a great success, and even as a consensual to it. So what the Constitution for equality of citizens says is not the case, because of course it cannot be the holder of capital and the holder of the labour force - because, unfortunately, it is the labour force, the ability to work in capitalism - to be equal. Take the siege article. It has existed since 1833 with one or the other wording. There were changes in the previous revisions of the Constitution. I know. The law on the siege situation that is mainly intended? On the inner rival. Can't we do a Cuveda? Not even a commentary. But isn't it a progressive left party, he says, ready or doesn't he think it is immediately possible to put it on? What's he gonna say? We in this House have also made changes, and what we know is not possible within the system, because the system cannot be determined by the system that is possible, nor by the possibility of a parliamentary majority, nor by the eighty or two hundred seats that they need. You say, for example, that people's sovereignty. We raised the question of state-owned. When we say state, it's not socialist or socialist. It's a state-of-urban. To have state ownership in the forests, in the saints, in the beaches, in the lakes, in the lakes, in education, in health, etc. No one proposed it from any party. Would it have been accepted, would it? No, it wouldn't pass, but this shows the following thing: you don't want these positions, because they come in conflict with the system. Moreover, because there is a lot of discussion about the pressures from outside, look at: Mr Varoufakis says that we are 'dollar colony' and something like that. The pressures are being exerted, but with the will of the ruling class of Greece and the parties, we have entered these associations and of course you cannot do any different. There'll also be pressure. In fact, the country’s urban order, industrialists and everyone else know it very well. They want membership and know that it is done in terms of inequality, because they are aware that there is a hierarchy, a different force in each country and they cannot do anything else. Simple analogy. Mr Janakopoulou, we want it simply proportionally, because it is essential that each party draws out as many Members as it takes. But that a mere analogue is a lever for modernization, democratisation and solves complex political problems, I beg your pardon, but with simple analogues you may have unpopular co-operation governments. The simple analogue does not want it by those who believe that there can be a two-party rotation, or by those who believe that, after the dual-party rotation, there can be governments of cooperation. It's a big difference. I forgot to say about the shipowners' privileges. Why don't you think they'll be abolished? Your differences are real, they are not made among the parties. She's not artificial. They are parties of different historical origin, they are of different composition, they are addressed to a different audience. Let me give you an example. Some denials that exist may always be due to reasons, let's say, fearful, voter. I cannot imagine that today, in 2019, it is not possible to separate the Church from the State. We, not only respect, but explain why people believe in alpha or beta religion. We're explaining it. We explain it philosophically and so on. And not only do we respect this, but we are always vigilant, so that we do not create a racist attitude in this world. We are not delusional that if the Church is separated from the State, church actors will resign from racist homophobic slogans, from extreme right-wing nationalists, etc. Or they'll get mixed up in everything. Now they are made by Metropolitan events for the unborn child against abortion. We don't have that delusion. The Church will play its role and confuse social and political issues in the name of religion. But it cleans the ground in education, in the various institutions. Finally, the Law on the Responsibility of Ministers. I don't know. Is that awkward? Awesome, selfish? It's clean. What the government proposes and what SYRIZA proposes is, in fact, maintained by the House, based on the majority and on various interests, to decide and judge a Member, a minister, etc. This law must be completely abolished. Why didn't you? I wonder why. You're afraid of something. Are you afraid of retaliation between the ex-government and the current government? It's probably that, too. Because we have nothing to fear, we think this story should be over. It's unacceptable. At least this had to come out with three hundred real votes. As with three hundred votes, the election of the judiciary and the intervention of the House had to be stopped, apart from the fact that the separation of powers laid down in the Constitution, namely legislative, executive and judicial powers, was a fact. That's what it's like. But, in any case, if you want to believe in this type of Constitution, which we do not believe, I told you that something typical about the Constitution, even if life overthrows it, we consider it positive. Can't you agree with that either? This review is cut and stitched on two issues: the creation of illusions that the political system is being ethicised, particularly in political stability. It is the long hand of the European Union and NATO capital. In this political stability all parties and all other democratic parties are looking forward to it, or even - to say it - and democratically, they are weakened only by the position on the stability of the political system.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u78	Thank you. Mr. Ypsilantis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I will try to bring things back to our hearts. Fortunately, many things have been answered by Mrs Papayannakis. As far as ours are concerned, I would like to tell you that I think our people have given it to them, and thankfully, because there could indeed be too much that has not been done with this constitutional review. And it was not because I would remind you that you have violently interrupted the previous constitutional review announced by the Government of Samaras, when for the President of the Republic - what we are seeking today to build - where there could be consents - did not do so and cast a government. So I think we're trying today to get things straight. And, of course, this revision of the constitution, which, over time and historically, is the most crucial parliamentary procedure for the state of affairs of our country, with guidelines and commitments aimed at the core of popular sovereignty and the identity of the state, for a Member of Parliament, is a leading moment, as is Parliament. In spite of the serious deficiencies in the pre-review process, which mitigate the dynamic reform of the charter of our democracy, I must admit that during the processes of the Committee on Review on the Critical Issues there was a substantial dialogue, serious positions from all parties and a climate of consensus, which went beyond political feasibility and focused on a genuine conscience of law. The lessons of the real conditions and the maturity of the reflexes of the legal order are restored through the constitutional review of provisions, such as the issues of parliamentary immunity, ministerial responsibility, and the election of the President of the Republic, where there are no more regularities about the legal and democratic right. My deep personal will and confidence in the Constitution of Greece, the fundamental law of the Hellenic Republic, is that it should not be a political text - a declaration of wishes with the votes of the rule of law, but that it should be governed by a strong overall regulatory approach and targeted rules of law, as well as by a conceptual unity, both in its internal composition and in its harmoniousness with the single and modern European constitutionalisation of law, the Treaties of the Union and the European Convention on Human Rights. On the basis of the above motives and worthy of commitment, I am addressing the whole of the House and as a representative of our island and border country, the islands of the Aegean and the Dodecanese, and I am tabling a proposal - a commitment without any micro-political purposes, and I hope that it will finally be adopted by the broadest possible parliamentary majority. My proposal concerns the provisions of Article 101(4) concerning the structural criteria for legislative planning and implementing practices for the most vulnerable regions in our country, islands and mountains, which claim their equality through their specificities, which, from their weaknesses in a structured development organisation, can be transformed into their dynamic prospects. The Review Committee seemed to accept my proposal, but which completely unnecessarily did not print in the final proposal in the proposed provisions. Today, once again, I call on the House to look at the essential prospect of island and mountainous Greece in the struggles of the people who hold the modern Thermopoils, by tabling the proposal to supplement Article 101(4), in a way that will only help with two key words in the future. Firstly, the regulatory design of the legislative initiative, secondly the executive crisis of the administration, and thirdly, the assessment of the legality of the judiciary which, until now, together with only the voluntary perception of good legislation and of a systematic constitutional crisis, can be activated and, with the new provisions of Articles 57 and 58 on good lawmaking of the executive state of L.4622/19, they have a partially binding dimension. This was then again the case in order not to abolish the relevant provision on islands. I would therefore like to say that the principles which I propose to integrate are the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, which are in force in the whole of our single constitutionalism, European and national, but require their more active, positive and also depository presence in the guarantees of the state. I therefore propose that the provision be re-drafted as follows: ‘The joint legislator and the administration, when acting regulatoryly, are obliged to take into account the particular circumstances of the island and mountain regions, while ensuring their balanced development in causal link with the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity’. It is a wording that I think covers more fully the original proposal in the Proposing Parliament, which refers more generally to full social and economic development, but which also comes in a straightforward legal balance both with paragraph 1 on decentralised governance under Article 101 and with the provisions of the relevant Article 106(1). This provision also takes account of all those measures for the use of the sources of national wealth, from the atmosphere and underground deposits to promote regional development and in particular the promotion of the economy of mountain and island regions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u80	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u81	In this context, in support of my position, I would also like to mention the fact that in the European Union too there is full reference to Article 5(3) of the Treaty on European Union, but also to Article 5(4) and finally to Article 174 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Unfortunately, time does not allow me to analyse things any more. I will do it the day that this article will be discussed. I have, however, chosen today to do an in-depth analysis of the provision which I request to amend, in order to point out that we must not stop and forget that effective equality in the expression of rights and in the composition of the public interest, which is necessary to ensure, and which must be proportionate, must be hampered by any public decision with the causal criteria of necessity and effectiveness and not just by proclamational provisions. I would also like to table the proposal, as was tabled in the Minutes to the committee responsible, and to thank you for the patience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr. Highlands. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the above Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-five students and students and three educational attendants from the 2nd Achaia Beach High School. We welcome you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Zetta Makrei has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for me it was an extremely great honour to participate in the intensive work of the Revision Committee of the Constitution of this House as a member, but also as the majority rapporteur for Articles 28, 44 and 73 on referendum and popular legislative initiative. That is why I would like to thank my party very warmly. I think that all the participants in this committee's work were to contribute to the fruitful public consultation, always moving within the moral and worthy acquis of our legal and constitutional culture, but also inspired by a classic tradition of courtesy and mutual respect, which I think we have all served successfully. Thanks to you, Mr Stylianidis, we have all successfully succeeded in finishing our work, as I said, with courtesy and mutual respect. At a time when the great challenge of our time is the deterioration of democracy and especially of the representative Parliamentary Republic, with European governments being unable to offer alternatives to the displeased audience of their voters, cannot be drastically faced with the supreme prevalence of austerity that testifies to the resistance of the political system, but cannot be shielded against the incubation of various versions of radical nationalism and the extreme right, the expansion of Euroscepticism and the transition to authoritarian democracy, the Revision of the Constitution could have been an ideal opportunity for Greece, in order to reverse this climate, in particular to modernise the institutions and economy of the country, but also to awaken society. Unfortunately, the Proposing House, in adopting sensible constitutionalism, did not allow the Reforming House a holistic and modernistic development of those provisions relating to the Financial Constitution, the Environmental Constitution, but also the educational constitution and today's talks, I understood that colleagues from the Officerial Response remain unrepentant. Despite the low expectations, I believe that we have finally managed to achieve significant overthrows, sometimes with a simple and sometimes increased majority, on seven main points: To the minimum guaranteed income for the support of the Greek family, which was an opportunity to freshen up certain provisions of the Constitution from institutional fatigue, to correct incorrectly the earlier Revisions and, above all, to adapt the Constitution itself to the lessons of the crisis in which the country has been involved since 2010. The minimum guaranteed income is a social indicator and a fourth pillar of protection. The other three are the labour market, family and social protection. When the previous three fail to intervene effectively, the state must activate the minimum guaranteed income and compensate for its failure. The minimum guaranteed income should not act as a trap of poverty and have a passive role. On the contrary, it should be accompanied by an obligation to return to employment, corresponding to the beneficiary's skills and competences, and indeed, since the state first has built a grid of many forms of active employment. To facilitate the vote of the voters outside the ruler at the same time as consulting the constitutional revision of Article 54 and the legislative consultation on the modulation of the framework which will make it easier for non-territorial voters, the great historic and rare opportunity is divided into four axes: the equivalent of the voters of the Greeks who live for up to thirty-five years abroad, provided that they have two years left in Greece. In increasing the number of MPs from twelve to fifteen, so that parties can self-regulation place themselves in election positions and candidates from abroad. And in that the vote will take place in the local embassies and consulates of Greece and will require a personal presence of Greeks abroad. Thirdly, the separation of the procedure for the election of the President of the Republic from the parliamentary elections. The highest rule with the limited regulatory powers, which we all know, will be elected by the House with an absolute relative majority. This change is imperative, as in the past there has been a laborious use of the procedure at issue with a view to party purposes and electoral strategies. Fourthly, in the equation of the military judges with the other judges, so that, according to the European Court of Human Rights, the guarantees of independent functioning of military justice can be claimed, by removing it from the outdated logic of the military courts. Fifthly, the strictness of the immunity of the Member who is shielded only in the performance of his duties, and the provision of Article 86(3) is abolished, thus equating the Minister with the ordinary citizens in the violation of criminal offences. This is how people are told that they must once again trust the political system, while at the same time it is also a strong measure to combat corruption. Sixth, in the setting up of a committee of inquiry, following a proposal by ten opposition MPs and a hundred and twenty Members present, thus shifting the examination into a strong parliamentary control tool and upgrading the control role of the national Parliament. Seventhly, to facilitate the election of the administration of the independent authorities. After the adoption and application of the law on the performance of the State, the administrations of these authorities will be able to be elected by 3/5 of the Conference of Presidents so that they do not remain head-on. Ladies and gentlemen, according to Evangelos Venizelos, when the process of Revision of the Constitution is under way, then the review is gaining the heavy and dangerous privilege of claiming historical characteristics. I hope that all of us who participated in this joint effort, fully aware of the historical weight, will ultimately be judged in the depth of historical time and of the next generations of Greeks positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u84	Thank you to Mrs Matutes and to respect time. Mr. Kalogannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been a great honour for me to participate in the Commission on Revision of the Constitution, the highest political process, even if the proposed Review is not as bold as it should be. The 1975 Constitution was the most quality in Greece's modern history, which is why the most resilient. But after the country's deep economic and social crisis, it needed a brave review of its future generations, with the immunisation of the quality of democracy, with the passions of political practice, with the liberation of the country's creative forces, as demanded by the digital age, and a feeling of confidence in the institutions that have been affected, particularly in the last four years. Revision is not bold under the responsibility of the parliament proposed. Despite the brave proposal of the New Democracy to review fifty-seven articles as a whole and to open up the debate on all matter, so that the current Review House would decide, there was no response. The proposed parliament has, unfortunately, limited the scope of the review process, mainly inclined to ideologies. In particular, the revision of Article 16 of the Constitution for the establishment of non-state universities under strict public supervision, which would allow our country to develop into an international educational centre, taking advantage of the great advantages of education, culture and our language and would lead to the repatriation of thousands of distinguished scientists and students. Article 24 of the Constitution is not revised, for which in the proposed parliament SYRIZA had a very conservative position. He insisted on staying the same way. However, the revision we proposed as a New Democracy aimed at further environmental protection, incorporating climate change, which we all agree is the greatest challenge in the coming decades, the rational management of water, and, ladies and gentlemen, I add the protection of the land of high productivity, which is a non-renewable natural resource, and which must be maintained as a whole. Also, the concepts of culture that are protected, in accordance with Article 24, I believe that enrichment is needed. We have also not been able to intervene in order to improve the functioning of the state, to impose rules of good law and to create conditions for codification of the whole legislation, which, in my view, is a priority political issue. Finally, the Review Committee has sometimes come up with a simple and sometimes increased majority in seven key points of proposed constitutional changes. I'll stand on four of them: First point. The committee proposed in Article 21(1) a minimum guaranteed income scheme to support the Greek family, which is the main cell of our society. This intervention by the New Democracy also stresses the principle of a social market economy in the Greek Constitution. Second point. The procedure for the election of the President of the Republic shall be separated from the parliamentary elections in accordance with Article 32(4) of the Constitution. That is to say, the election of the House by an absolute or relevant majority, so that the people's mandate for a government is not interrupted deliberately for the election of a President. This prevents the highest rule from being elected to work and, at the same time, is a guarantee of political stability. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, in the recent past, we have been led to elections on the occasion of the election of the President of the Republic to draw up opposing political benefits from opposition parties, but with disastrous consequences for the country. The first was 2009, with the result that the new government that came out of the elections led the country to the International Monetary Fund and two memoranda. The second in 2015, resulting in the new government loading the country with a third memorandum, larger than everyone, of EUR 100 billion, and a loss of EUR 200 billion. Third point. The immunity of the Member referred to in Article 62 of the Constitution, which is shielded only in the performance of his duties and which abolishes the amortisation deadline laid down in Article 86(3) by equating the Minister with all citizens as a whole to the limitation of criminal offences. This regulation aims at combating corruption at the same time and restoring citizens' confidence in the political system. Fourth point. The selection of members of independent authorities shall be facilitated in accordance with Article 101a of the Constitution, which, after its revision, shall be elected by 3/5 of the Conference of Presidents. The main reason for this change is that the authorities are not headless. Allow me, as far as the independent authorities are concerned, to put forward some thoughts. First of all, I insist that the possibility of establishing new principles should be restricted. There's already a lot of them. I have set an example in the Committee on Review, which I have referred to very quickly. In 2012-2013 the Memorandum of Understanding provided for the establishment of independent authorities or regulators for water, ports, motorways, airports. As Deputy Minister of Development and Infrastructure, then I took the initiative to avoid creating a new water principle. On the contrary, we have strengthened the responsibilities of the existing Water Secretariat. Neither a new independent motorway authority was subsequently created but only one service was created at the Ministry of Infrastructure on road charges. In other words, it has proved in practice that it is not always necessary to set up a new authority. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that I believe that Parliament's control over the independent authorities should be substantially strengthened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr Kalogannis, for keeping time. Mr. Papadimitriou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u87	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a chance - the previous character gave it to me a moment ago - to read something a little more relaxing perhaps: "Look, my lord," noted our protagonist, "the ones that look like this are not giants, but windmills. And what looks like hands is their wings, which as the wind turns them, make the millstone grind." "How you seem to have no idea of adventures. These are giants there, and if you're afraid, go aside and pray while I give the unequal battle against them." Here Don Quixote had the way of seeing things, seeing them different from what they really are, in order to destroy them. It is an excellent account, and I think Mr Janakopoulos, when he finds the opportunity, will read it before he returns to the article 16 account. I honestly don't understand where he got all this, but there's probably somewhere. I shall refer to Articles 21 and 22. In general, there is one issue with this whole debate that we are having. First, we call the thing in a way, and then we try to give it a quality. All right, that's it. And in the political debate, even more television, I fully justify them. However, the Constitutional Review is not justified. I cannot understand why Mrs Ahtsioglou, who has her doctorate in these matters, thank God, says: 'Perfectly in the employment relationship there is intrinsic inequality of the parties. Of course it is. " Not very self-evident. The only obvious thing is that in the economy - of course, in civil law there are other things - in real life what exists is a constant battle. It is also the free collective bargaining that finally gives the outcome. That is why I cannot understand how the former Minister for Labour, who has abolished until the last moment the collective agreement was Minister, alone, recommended the increases. The trade unions protested, 'why you don't let it be seen'. Attention was expressed by the trade unions and employers' unions. No, we had elections in front, and she had to decide on it together with Mr Tsipras, who announced it. Why does the former Prime Minister announce it? Because in the minds of colleagues who have proposed and insisted today - the elections have passed and could be slightly lighter in their arguments - there is a concept of state. There's a perception that when you're being a government left, your next step is to be the Forced Left. You've got to sort of pass everything on to the Constitution. Why? Because in the regimes we have known and thankfully we celebrated their fall a few days ago, the Constitution was just to justify that there is a Constitution. Because that's where the government, if not the party, did whatever he wanted, whenever he wanted, just as he wanted. When the Soviet Union fell - you have obviously not forgotten - there were no insurance funds. The average that the people of that generation have been able to live has fallen to fifty years. It's not just things. Do not put things into your mind, ladies and gentlemen, which have been overcome by life. Life itself has changed. You're saying she's not good? I personally believe - because I have negotiated enough - that collective agreements must be free, they must be guaranteed. Of course, there must be arbitration, commonly agreed arbitration. The rapporteur for the Opposition in constitutional is excellent legal - especially in these issues - and knows very well the adventures that the labour movement itself has been through on all these issues, precisely because arbitration has not remained in its role, but has played an active role in the result. How is it justified if it is so unequal that, in the first ten years of the euro, wages reached 25% - and in some sectors and more - during the crisis, which unfortunately lasted in Greece for so many years, 25%? It's not that simple. How can we say that there is a need for a constitutional safeguard for the negotiation of the GSP with the governments concerned? There's no reason to put things in molds. That's what I'm trying to say. In this sense, the predictions and provisions of the Constitution, as they exist since Karamanlis' time - because such days ago we created the Constitution that governs us all this time well or badly, badly belongs mainly to us - I think it is good to stay there. The predictions are, international agreements often have a super-constitutional effect, the Community, the European agreements are highly rated all and very strict. It's good to stay there. We will therefore not be able to accept and will not, of course, vote in favour of today's Opposition. After all, you yourself, ladies and gentlemen, while the Constitution says in Article 44, paragraph 2, which you know very well, because you closed your eyes when you saw it, that a referendum on budgetary matters is not allowed to take place, you voted. So even here, even the Constitution which you call for as the supreme right to be guaranteed, you yourself destroyed it, so that you could then destroy something even more important, the will of the majority. So I think we're good. I have to tell you something technical, but I'll leave it for the end, because I don't have time. With regard to Article 21, however, which is about social goods, I have to tell you that that is where the rule is now coming from everywhere. Social goods are social and public goods. You know English, which is more straight, says publicly, 'public goods' - and we when we learned financially, so we said it - no matter who creates them and who produces them. In fact, individuals, I would say, because they are also subject to competition, are even more under the supervisor's boot. So what we need is a good supervisor. We need the state to work ergonomically, we need the independent authorities, and that is what we need to strengthen. So the public good is produced either by the state or by the private person, in terms and conditions which we are really negotiating in here, we vote in here and we put the state in control to implement them. Therefore, I think that the different conception is not the night by day, it is not the good and the bad. It is simply that we, in keeping with a tradition liberal - I have again looked at some beautiful writings from Marx and found out how liberal he was and in some of his expressions - say, 'let us trust Parliament', 'let us trust civil society', 'let us trust those who will negotiate', and you say 'I trust no one but the partner, whom I can control tomorrow morning'. Badly, in my opinion. There is some ground to agree at least at the last minute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u88	Thank you. Mr Leonardis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, in the top parliamentary procedure that is the Revision of the Constitution, unfortunately the previous majority, before the elections, did not consciously leave a great scope for action for the Revision House, fearing radical changes in a new era when the country's course requires brave decisions. That is why I have heard many colleagues - and I agree - that we have lost an opportunity through our hands. It has been an opportunity to revise the fundamental article 16 of the Constitution, so as to finally allow the establishment of non-governmental, non-profit universities, which could make Greece an international educational centre, creating a new source for the country's GDP and strengthening our international cultural and intellectual intervention. When Cyprus, as the chairman of our committee said, ensures from education in universities a significant proportion of GDP that exceeds 5%, when countries such as Bulgaria, Turkey, the Czech Republic, Romania, Hungary and many others attract thousands of students to their private universities, we are islands of exclusion because of your persistence and the strangles you have over time. And this is at the expense of the national economy, at the expense of thousands of Greek scientists abroad who see their homeland sinking into the veil of idealism. The second important point is that while we have proposed to be included in Article 24 of the Constitution and all the current arguments concerning combating climate change and the effective protection of the environment, this proposal has not been accepted and is therefore not included in the provisions to be revised. Also, there was a lot of talk about the role of the Constitution and the state towards the Orthodox Church. First of all, as regards the Constitutional Review, Article 3 on prevailing religion is a common feature of all the Greek Constitutions from the first Constitution of Epidaurus in 1822 to the present day. Article 3 therefore simply expresses the history and timelessness of the constitutional text, without conflicting with religious freedom, since the non-revisionable provision of Article 13(1) of the Constitution clearly states that the enjoyment of individual and civil rights does not depend on the religious beliefs of anyone. Despite the dismantling of SYRIZA in an extremely consensual process such as the Revision of the Constitution, which must go beyond for the sake of the national objective, even ideologically finite dividing lines, the proposed constitutional changes strengthen the Hellenic Republic, strengthen the country's charter and concern the following: Firstly, the minimum guaranteed income for the support of the Greek family, for which there was a consensus framework. The proposal put forward by the New Democracy provides for adding to the contested Article 21(1) of the Constitution that the state is to ensure that all citizens live decent lives through a minimum guaranteed income system. This proposal has clear advantages to the naughty mosaic of benefits. Secondly, the upgrading of the Greek Parliament by recognising the right of minority, which is achieved by the proposal in Article 68 for the setting up of committees of inquiry. Thirdly, the separation of the procedure for the election of the President of the Republic from the parliamentary elections in accordance with Article 32(4). By a majority, the election of the parliament, by an absolute or relevant majority, is qualified to ensure that there is no work of the highest State ruler's election, that political stability is not compromised and that the country is re-enacted. Fourthly, to facilitate the vote of Greeks abroad with Article 54(4), which requires an eighty-eight votes to be amended. The government expects consensus in order not to deal with unconstitutional issues the law that will come next time in the House concerning the right to vote in the non-stated Greek voters. We owe them that. They will strengthen our democracy. Fifthly, the stricter the framework for the immunity of the Member under Rule 62, who is only shielded in the performance of his duties. The amortisation deadline referred to in Article 86(3) shall also be abolished, equating the Minister with the ordinary citizens in the breach of criminal offences. Sixth, the equalisation, according to Article 96(5), of the military judges and other judges, so that, according to the European Court of Human Rights, the guarantees of military justice can be claimed, by removing it from the outdated logic of the courts. Seventhly, to facilitate the election of independent authorities in accordance with Article 101a. Ladies and gentlemen, it is generally accepted that the 1975 Constitution, prepared by the Government of Constantine Karamanlis and New Democracy, is the most complete text in Greek constitutional history and considered as one of Europe's most progressive and modern liberal constitutions. The next Reviews were unrealistic - to some extent limited - they did not have the shocks and the necessary consents and brakes ripe demands of society, as they are today. After a ten-year economic crisis, which dismantled the country's infrastructure and tested its institutional strengths, where Greek society remained standing thanks to the solidarity of the Greek family, to the support - both material and spiritual - of the Orthodox Church, to the structures of the state that tolerated, to some extent, the storm of the crisis, the truth is that the Revision does not bring the experience of the crisis to the level of the Constitution as a whole. The national interest requires that we place separately the individual responsibility of each and every one of us involved in this process above all the micro-participatory purposes and that we should be armed with determination to respond to the extremely difficult and responsible work that we have undertaken. We have a duty to the next generation, we have a duty to the citizens to contribute to the economic, social, cultural development of our country, establishing the foundations of the Hellenic Republic. Finally, I would like to congratulate the chairman of the committee, Mr Stylianides, the rapporteurs, the speakers, the Members of the committee on their efforts to carry out their duties. Anything that won't be voted on to pass, maybe there's a lesson about the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u90	Thank you. Mrs. Liikali has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have entered the week when the final phase of the Constitutional Review process is being discussed. And there is no better time to start this debate - I do not know whether it was appropriate or not, I think it was not - than the day after the Polytechnic anniversary - but that means - an event which has been the legend of developments in the fall of the seven-year dictatorship, the beginning of the longer-lived Greek Republic. We are therefore experiencing a period of time when, with all its negative effects, all that we have spent in recent years, it remains the most progressive and prosperous period since the establishment of the modern Greek state almost two hundred years ago. With these thoughts, then, starting and dominating our minds, today is the beginning of the epitome of the monetary policy, the top process of parliamentism. In this process the Change Movement stands with boldness and seriousness. This is because in all its appearances and forms it has repeatedly demonstrated its timeless commitment to democratic principles and faith in the values of modern parliamentaryism. We recognize that during the course of this whole process there has been a radical change in the terms of the political game. Today we are discussing this and I see that we are discussing all the points. We recognise that the new association of forces, like the terms of party competitions, the new party culture is now very different from the decades we have known. We recognise that all of these were the external signs of a deeper process taking place on the basis of society and sending us messages, with the result that these are also followed by the Parliamentary House. We are, however, standing in the face of all this socio-political process, with a historical sense of unscrupulous faith in the institutions and a pragmatism that we all have to have and which must be translated into a well-defined political adaptability. The cornerstones of our institutional reform path and undisputed witnesses of the political features I have just mentioned are the two historical reform areas in the Constitution, in which our protagonists in 1986, like the one in 2001, were the leader. In this context, the Change Movement, the genuine expression of the historic democratic party, could not contribute to this process and to the creation of the country's new charter. We could not leave the mark in the new constitutional order being created. Its challenge is to imprint - to the extent possible - new social transformations. We have also had this opportunity of the constitutional review which opened about a year ago, to table a framework of opinions on how the democratic process operates, which is not only consistent with the principles, but, at the same time, necessary and modern socialism. With a high sense of responsibility we have done our duty, contributed our proposals and tabled everything we had to say. Unfortunately, however, artificial polarization between the then government of SYRIZA and the then opposition officer of New Democracy, in a climate of infinite discipline, backwardness and regularity, have put the debate on a second plan. So a great opportunity was lost, as you usually know - you know - all the great historical opportunities in the country are lost, on the altar always of a micropolitical and perhaps even of idealism. At the same time, this was a glorious opportunity to highlight both political truths and political hypocrisy, just as in the case of the vote of Greeks abroad, which SYRIZA, referring to micro-political purposes - while others said - did not recently hesitate to propose that the national result should not be calculated. This, you know, is the quality of democracy and a clear sample that serves. This is how he perceives things and when the time comes for the type of suns, he is removed with light sides jumping. Of course, democratically consecrated as progressively jumping, but always jumping. You have a great responsibility, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, for the alteration, the impairment of the historical burden of the Constitutional Review. With the fatal degeneration of the debate last February, the historic opportunity for brave areas of key importance for the country remained unexploited. The debate on Article 16 - which has been largely falsified - on higher education and the possibility of setting up non-governmental, non-profit universities, a well-meaning debate on a shaped European and global real treaty - was a proposal that came from our side and provided, at the same time, for their strict government supervision and evaluation, as well as for the strengthening of the public university. You have refused and, unfortunately, unity of education has remained out of review, which means that for the next ten years you are responsible for obsessing and we are out of every reality. I would remind you, of course, that our proposals did not stop there. I would like to remind you that we have proposed changes to Article 24, to climate change, to Article 25, to new technologies and to the Fourth Industrial Revolution, to ensure human rights, to fair distribution of the wealth produced, to the financial control of the parties, to Articles 39 and 42. For the President of the Republic, I would remind you that we have recommended the possibility of a proclamation, but above all the obligation to refer back amendments adopted by Parliament without complying with the procedure envisaged. You're deaf. Unfortunately, you didn't accept any of this. With regard to Article 76 of the Constitution, I shall mention a point which, at least, I consider to be important: we have proposed the laws that have been passed by a qualified majority in Parliament to be abolished within the next five years by a proportional majority in Parliament. We all remember the infamous Diamantopoulou law and its phasing-out from the next government, under the responsibility of the then Minister of Education, Mr Arvanitopoulos, who, in fact, was from New Democracy, who had voted in favour of the bill. That is how this democracy works. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude, Mr President, by saying that even if this is the case as I described it, but many other colleagues too, I think that a revision of the Constitution is an opportunity. It can be relentless, unrelenting, and in any case cancel our expectations. We will be placed in detail on issues and on modules. But even the notion of imported changes is a force of democracy. I say this, ladies and gentlemen, because I think that, apart from the revolutionary time of their establishment, democracies, in a large-scale 'big-bang' state, are going ahead with great and radical steps. We are obliged to use this form of wisdom, which I often call it'softness of little things'. By extension, therefore, in every constitutional review, apart from the cries, the columns, the denials of the grand plans, there is the wisdom of careful wording. What does that mean? What we have now and this week is a very great task, ladies and gentlemen. We have a duty to move on to society and democracy without scaring it. The wisdom of democracy is that, despite the fact that it is relentless, lacking, disproportionate to the expectations of what we are trying to do, not to blame it in the first place. Let us listen to this and honour parliamentarians with care and measure, even if this is only reflected in the formalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Liikali. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, thirty-five students and students and two educational attendants from the 35th Municipal School of Piraeus. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Nadia Yannakopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, every attempt to revise the Constitution is a leading moment in the parliamentary process, as, in essence, the country's charter is being amended. This review process must show something different from the usual functions of Parliament's other procedures. It should be a lighthouse for institutional consultation between the political forces, in order to prevent the very serious risk to democracy and the rule of law, which is the risk of constitutional populism and clandestineness. Unfortunately, artificial polarisation, particularly in the process that took place in the previous House between SYRIZA and the New Democracy, overshadowed the very serious debate on the constitutional review, to a large extent canceling the historic value of this project. The result of this degeneration of this debate was that the historic opportunity for very serious, necessary areas and brave steps forward should be taken by making use, at the level of the Constitution, of the experience we had in the ten years of the crisis. And while, ladies and gentlemen, after ten years of crisis, during which the institutions have been tested, they have contributed to both our country and the European structure as a whole, huge changes in constitutional order and economic governance in the euro area, unfortunately we here continue to be umbilized and spent on issues that should have been resolved a long time ago, in discussions that concern much more than yesterday, despite today and tomorrow. In this way, we are leading to a review process, to a re-examination of resentment, ignorance, without vision, which - and is the main one - is not about the Greek society. One of the most characteristic such cases, which has been, unfortunately, already in the previous Parliament, is the exclusion from the next phase, from this stage of the review process, the rule of budgetary equilibrium, budgetary awareness, whose introduction to the constitutions of the Member States is their obligation, explicitly provided for in the Treaty on cooperation, coordination and governance, which governs the economic governance of the euro area. The constitutional provision for a balanced budget, that is to say, the golden budgetary rule, the ceiling on the budgetary deficit and the public debt, is a necessary condition to stop, at last, the future of the next generation. Apart from that, however, there is, unfortunately, a series of other missed opportunities that have not, in the end, been included in this constitutional review, ending in the end, giving a tone far more permeating than substantial incisions and changes. It is very important and it is an unbelievable opportunity that in this Review, for example, Article 16(5) and (8) was not included in the possibility of setting up non-governmental, non-profit universities, because of the ideological myopia of SYRIZA and, in fact, of losing such an important opportunity for a whole decade. At a time when private universities exist and operate throughout the other developed world, while in our country there are virtually private colleges, we are ostriching and have not been able to make such an important cut. Unfortunately, however, also Article 24 of the Constitution for Climate Change, one of the greatest challenges our society faces internationally, remains out of review, for which we in the Change Movement have proposed the creation of a constitutional streak by establishing the state's obligation to adopt actions to tackle the climate crisis now and to protect biodiversity. Finally, as far as the multi-faceted area of justice is concerned, the Change Movement tabled and developed a package of interventions to strengthen the independence of justice and its officials and to strengthen the principles of the rule of law. Our proposals included strengthening the role of Parliament in selecting the leadership of justice, taking advantage of the pilot trial in controlling the constitutionality of laws and more, which would give a serious response to the very great needs of both Greek justice and Greek citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, this Review cannot and should not be interpreted by the high consensus review of 2001, which has provided much in the chapters of social, individual, civil and political rights, the chapter of modern threats to the information society, the problems of bioethics, technology, and which eventually made the Greek Constitution, especially with regard to the specific issues, one of the world's most advanced constitutions. But to close, Mr President, we must be honest with each other and particularly with the Greek society that has turned its eyes on what is happening and what is said in the Greek Parliament. The essence of the country's problem is not just constitutional. The country's problem has appeared all over the last few years of the crisis. It was, it's, and it's still deep political. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be done. That is why we must be very careful about the risk of an easy constitutional rhetoric that everything can be solved through the Revision of the Constitution, that the ailments of the political system, weaknesses of justice or of public administration will be solved by magic simply through the Revision of the Constitution. Unfortunately, with the exception of the provisions governing the election of the President of the Republic without breaking up the House, for the change of Rule 86, for the vote of the dismissals, this supreme parliamentary procedure remains unrelenting and negligent. But even so, even though there is a lack and problematic one, it must continue the way of further strengthening the freedom and rights of citizens, guaranteeing the social state and laying the foundations to deal with the dysfunctions and diseases of our political system. That's what the place needs. This is our proposal for our country, and this is our priority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u94	Thank you. Mr Lambropoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Government, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this week we are debating the Review of our Constitution, which began as it stands, from the previous House and is being completed with this. Our country has been happy all these years since the 1974 Migration to have the best democracy in its modern history. The maturity shown by all the political forces of our country along with our democratic constitution, which was passed in 1975 by the late Constantine Karamanlis and other wise politicians, established democracy and contributed to the democratic functioning of our political system. Today's revision of the Constitution is relentless, anaemic and inadequate, with the responsibility of the previous parliamentary majority. It has been several years since 1975 and much has changed so far in science, technology, the economy, the environment, in all areas. The previous parliamentary majority of the SYRIZA in this House did not dare so we cannot do in this House today the areas and reforms that the place needs to go forward, following a major crisis, to make the big leap in progress, modernisation and development. The ideological and backward strangles of the Left, even when they did not govern, kept the society and the state behind and did not allow for reforms and changes. For example, Article 16 of the Constitution, which even now in this Revision of the Constitution, did not allow it to change, so that private universities could also be created in Greece, which all countries have done. Cyprus triumphs and attracts many thousands of students from Greece and other countries. Greek birds are forced to leave for studies in Bulgaria, Romania, the Czech Republic, Serbia and they cannot study here in Greece because SYRIZA believes so. We could attract students and money from all over the world. In Article 24, which refers to forests, SYRIZA has once again accepted no modification, while it is well known that the problems faced by the citizens are characterised as forests, what as forest land, what as property. Farms that cannot be cultivated, such as in the areas of Mani, but also throughout the country, are characterised as forests, so that citizens lose their property and participate in endless judicial struggles. The only articles on which we can say that this Revision of the Constitution is justified are Article 32, Article 62 and Article 86. In particular, Article 32 stipulates that if it was not finally elected by an eighty-eight-vocal President of the Republic, then the parliament was dissolved and the country was led to parliamentary elections, but after that it could be elected President and with fifty-one votes. This provision was thus introduced in the 1975 Constitution with a view to obliging parties to reach consensus and consensus in the election of the President of the Republic. In practice, however, it proved that this provision became a lever to blackmail the opposition to which the government, and so we led to elections at times critical for the country in 2009 and 2015, for which those who provoked them now state that they were unprepared and thus somehow reached the edge of the cliff. With the provision proposed by the New Democracy, the House will not be dissolved and fortunately all parties agreed on that. The President of the Republic, which has no powers, will also be elected by a qualified majority. Rule 62 applies to the parliamentary immunity originally given and to offences committed by Members and which had nothing to do with the exercise of their political duties, even for traffic. In recent years, the uncontrolled provision of parliamentary immunity had indeed been restricted. The proposal for a revision will provide immunity only when it comes to the exercise of the parliamentary and political duties of the Member and, indeed, well defined. Article 86 provided for a short limitation on criminal offences of Ministers and State Secretarys in the performance of their duties. Articles 62 and 86 have often, in practice, provoked discussions about the privileges of politicians, but also doubts that have reduced citizens' confidence in our political system. The proposed arrangements restore the legitimacy and equality of citizens. A great new provision is proposed by the New Democracy and provides for the possibility of setting up a committee of inquiry following a proposal from the opposition. Since the next Review, according to the existing ones, will be possible after almost ten years, we hope and wish what we now need, but they are not revised because of the refusal of the SYRIZA, to be reviewed in the future under conditions of unity and consensus of the political world, so that the many, great and necessary constitutional changes that the country needs are achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr. Lambropoulos. Mr. Bored by SYRIZA has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, those of us who are here anyway, because at the same time they meet a committee, which, in my opinion, should not have been the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u98	Four people are up!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u99	In my opinion, this should not be the case because it leads to deterioration. Anyone who wanted to be here could have been if this committee didn't work. This constitutional revision is not any constitutional revision. I do not want to downgrade any other constitutional revision that has taken place in the past. But it is a constitutional review that comes after a ten-year painful crisis. And it is not only the issue of a 'parallel' produced during this crisis - and for which none of us should be proud, not even those who were unable to prevent the creation of this 'parallel' - but after this painful ten-year crisis one would expect that in a constitutional review the political forces would have crystallised their conclusions, their lessons from this crisis, and these should have a reflection on the new constitution. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] In addition, this is the first constitutional revision, which is the following: The Proposing House is not the same as the political position of the constitutional revision. And here was an opportunity for this to be the starting point of an effort, a convergence of a common place with things that, as I said before, are lessons and conclusions of a specific crisis. This does not seem to be happening to the extent that it should be. In my opinion, an obstacle is a marginal atmosphere and an undertaking to shape a state of conservative regression and regression of the country in seasons, which we considered had gone beyond. What do I mean exactly? The Minister of New Democracy, Mr. Georgiadis, talked about the disease of post-multiple activity. There's an attempted review here for the period of post-population, the pathogen. And where did Mr. Georgiadis identify it? The fact of confronting MATs with students at ASEAN. This, according to Mr. Georgiadis, was the pathogen of postmultition. It wasn't unreasonable management, corruption, all those phenomena that led us to bankruptcy! Watch out. When Mr Georgiadis talks about the treatment of the pathogenesis of post-multipleism, in my opinion, he also includes New Democracy, which, coming out of the seven-year-old dictatorship, made an effort to modernise in order to find a synchronization with European documents. Evidently, Mr Georgiadis considers this to be a pathetic one, who is struggling with other political space and wants to be integrated and, indeed, as a primal in this area, his beliefs. Take Mr. Voridis. Mr. Voridis mentioned the compelling of wood. Mr Vorides also said something else: 'Lefts...' - he says - '...they do not normally think'. He did not say that they did not do, which, too, is a question of considering the action of your political opponents and, indeed, of the Civilian Anti-Population Officer. He said they don't think properly. So there is a need to reform the thought of Officer Responsibility. Do you understand that for where we drive? Can I tell you something? Why cannot we agree on religious neutrality? Why can't we? Since we have an historical experience now after the collapse of existing socialism. We saw what happened in those countries that regressed on religious paths and there was a symphony of religion with the state. Haven't we seen that? We have seen this not only at European level, but also at global level. So why not incorporate this historical experience into the Constitution? Here we do not agree on the language in the New Testament. New Democracy wants to enshrine a particular language. I believe that some things, such as the entrepreneurial legislature of blasphemy, Mr Vice-President, go beyond neoliberalism. Here we have something beyond neoliberalism. In other words, the question is whether the New Democracy is a European 'tea party'. We're beyond neoliberalism. This is another path. In my personal opinion, the need to separate the Church with the State has matured and I believe that a new government is left-wing, progressive, from the first steps it has to take - and before there is a toxic propaganda effort to prevent - and to establish such a government is that. The underprivileged wages weren't a stigma? Can we look the young people in the eye? It wasn't just an inappropriate measure. It was a cultural and humanitarian signal. So why don't we make that clear? And can I tell you something else? Let us say that Article 16 is your position political, ideological or anything else. It's your place. But is it your place to deceive the public university and incorporate it into a law and order operation, as has happened lately? You think this is all theoretical. My opinion is this: When you train people in this direction, then polls come and record some results of this effort to train the world. Let me tell you a witness. After the Polytechnic, two days later, I was summoned to security. And you know what the security men were yelling at then? "You destroyed the Polytechnic. You ripped it off. We built it with the military compensation of the Italians!” That's where I heard that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u100	Monsieur Baroness, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u101	I shall finish, Mr President. Are you going to tell me: Are you paralleling the dictatorship with democracy? I don't do that. I don't do such a parallel, but I say you know that sometimes the game with this fire makes the limits indiscreet and some things are marginal. I say that we need to get rid of our efforts to the end by the last day and find a common place on certain issues that, in our opinion, are not a place of enforcement but are a matter of maturity. You know, a constitutional review cannot codify the past, it must prescribe the future. The political forces are to disguise the messages of times, much more, as I said, when these times are these after a painful crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u102	Mr. Comrade, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u103	For the other attempts, which I have made to talk about conservative regression, from there on, the answer, in my opinion, cannot be a intensity of tension, the answer must be a position, a categorical one, a proposal and, in my opinion, a pan-democratic vigilance, a regenerative effort and what of these arrests, positions, proposals can be reflected in the Constitution, well done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u104	Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25 Mr. Claus Gregoriadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u105	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start from something that has nothing to do with our constitutional review, because if I don't say it, I'm going to run away! I heard the Minister of Development last night at the time he denounced the extremely murderous, terrorist action of the members of the 'Rubicon' who flew on the road outside his house and I wondered, because in a revulsion of his speech the Minister told us that in all civilizations, in all the lengths and backs of this land the right to property is always completely respected. I wonder, then, whether the right of the individual property of those who had the unfortunate inspiration to acquire personal property in the district of Exarches last night was respected by the Minister of Civil Protection of the same Government. If you don't know, I'll let you know that with philosophical rams, they broke jams - I mean communists, private jams - to catch potential troublemakers on their roof, but without asking the owners "I can break your jam or even better why break it, can you open me up?" This is from the systemic channels report, I'm not saying it. Today, as we all know, the process of discussing our constitutional review began only a few hours ago, of course, a process of extremely important importance, a debate which, in theory, always strengthens the concept of democracy and our Parliament. We in Mera25 consider it necessary to deepen and radically progressive, democratic review of the existing constitution and, in particular, in three directions: The first direction is to strengthen the protection of the social rights of citizens and, in particular, vulnerable groups of citizens. This means, in principle, that everyone who is on Greek territory, for us, should enjoy the ultimate protection of life, honour and freedom without any discrimination. It also means that the state should guarantee a decent standard of living for all of us through universal social services and income support, even if they are needed. It should also guarantee everyone's right to equal access to public social services, effective judicial protection. It also means, in our view, universal access to health benefits through the National Health System, public access to social goods such as electricity, our water, etc. It also means a monthly allowance for all unemployed, at least equal to the wage of the unskilled worker and, above all, sufficiently justified dismissal. It also means social security through a single universal, redistributive, rewarding and solidarity system and a pension which finally offers a decent standard of living again, not to say that it is enough for us to survive. Secondly, the strengthening of the essential and decisive involvement of citizens in state institutions and the change of the immunity and persecution status of us MPs and you of Ministers. More specifically, the Prime Minister, in our view, should not be a non-parliamentary, as it might be. In our opinion, the granting of responsibilities for high-quality international bodies - see the Commission and so on - must be granted immediate democratic legitimacy by the citizens of Greece and an end to the inequality of the law between Ministers, MPs and ordinary citizens, i.e. the abolition of the special period for the limitation of the law of Ministers and the prosecutions and other judicial procedures to be directly subject to justice without the parliamentary permission of Parliament, the abolition of parliamentary immunity for criminal offences, unless these concern parliamentary duties, so that Parliament's authorisation must be sought. For the election of the President of the Republic: We are proposing a fourth vote one month after the third. Although the fourth does not gather three fifths, then direct recourse to the people with the two predominant candidates. For the electoral system: the Constitutional introduction of unadulterated representative democracy by establishing, of course, the simple, simple and unadulterated analogous, that is, what common sense says, that my own vote and yours cannot weigh any differently, is impossible. It is obviously undemocratic that anyone who votes for ANDARSYA, even if 1%, should not send three Members to the Greek Parliament, when these people are supposed to be constitutionally equal to me. How did I get into the House? How did Mera25 get in? Because he spent 3%. In addition, apart from the simple analogue, balanced electoral districts, it is no longer permitted to establish a minimum voting rate for Members. Furthermore, provision for the elections of Greek abroad, this is the only thing that we have heard in this constitutional review and we are grateful to all of you for that, because it is very important. Therefore, regions of Greek abroad in relation to their country or continent with a number of seats in accordance with the number of seats registered therein. Thirdly, segregation - necessary - state and Church. We believe, in particular, that the Greek state should be neutral against all religious communities and that there should be no separation in this respect, against all associations. In other words, we are asking for protection of freedom of religion. In addition, the administrative and dogmatic issues of the Greek Orthodox Church are, in our opinion, exclusively an internal question and not a constitutional need to be provided. Why would the state solve a welfare that does not concern it? It's like we're sticking our hand or our leg into a thing that's none of our business. We also propose a suspension of any provision of oath from the Constitution, whether we are talking about a political or a religious oath, as what does it make sense to swear? It is not a vow to guarantee an effective commitment, because each of us can trample his oath at any time. Its obligation is completely obsolete now, since all citizens are always bound by the law and are equal to the law. Their obligations are therefore concluded by him, making every concept of oath absolutely unnecessary. One would say that it is touching to see its dimension and nothing else and it has ceased to be touching for a long time, since we systematically see any thrilling violation of every oath given to this country. Merra25 raised two key issues through its proposals, the proposal of the DICKPs, the Counselling Councils and the Elected Citizens, for active involvement of the citizens in decision-making and strengthening the functioning of democracy, and secondly, the explicit constitutional safeguarding of the social state, education, health, welfare as constitutionally guaranteed rights and not as privileges or according to the newly-familiar view and political documentation as positive rights. I think it is of great interest to talk a little more about this distinction. The basic distinction of human rights according to the doctrine of neoliberalism is negative and positive rights. It is negative that they have no cost and constitute prohibitions, for example, your right not to murder you, not to steal you, not to deprive you of your freedom, not to discern you on the basis of your race, sex or sexual orientation, etc. It is positive rights that are costly and constitute a provision, such as education, health, etc. The separation of human rights, which deserves to be noted recently that the neoliberals call them individual and not human rights, leads, in our opinion, to a phase of democracy, but also to the ideological instability of this particular distinction, which is gradually, but we are firmly convinced that it will lead to the final privatization of positive rights and to a society where, ultimately, the individual, in fact, will trample down all concepts of collectiveness, solidarity and democracy. Obviously, those who think so have forgotten that together with ants and bees we are cow animals. Our survival is linked and will always be linked to the survival of our herd. That's why capitalism has been saying that it has no future. He has no future, believe me. Now, the cost of negative rights is, firstly, policing, repression, secondly, the legal system and thirdly, the penitentiary system. As long as positive rights are omitted or suppressed or in some cases prohibited, the prohibitions constituting negative rights are lifted and in order to preserve them, the cost of maintaining them shall be increased rapidly. This, in other words, do you know what it means? It means increasing the repression, prisons, convicts, poor people, sick people, illiterate people. Within the framework of the economic dictatorship of the markets, positive rights are important and absolutely necessary, in your opinion, to change to privileges, commercial values, to a privatised health system, welfare, higher education, energy, insurance and so, the neoliberal oligars, at last, your protected and excellence will have achieved their goal. Ladies and gentlemen, he said the first majority rapporteur, starting with his speech, "The New Democracy and SYRIZA will not be a SYRIZA". And yet, as SYRIZA, when his leadership terrified during the 2015 negotiations and brought to the country a forty-five years memorandum, effectively doing the exact opposite of what the command that was given by the Greek people might, of course, not have been at that time New Democracy, but acted like New Democracy or, if you prefer, KINAL or Potami. Watch out, I don't judge SYRIZA morally. Away from me, any such practice. In politics, I know you have the right to change your mind, and sometimes you have to change your mind. In fact, I am not hiding, I will say, to some extent you have tried to legitimise this change of march with the October elections that you have won. I am just wondering, comrades: After you have been able to agree that any attempt or attempt to break with the lenders in 2015 will have as a direct consequence the flow of our country into the well-known terrible, sharp, dark rocks and then the total destruction of our country and our homeland and that the only real and realistic solution, when your well-known illusion was that it was compromise and subjection, how can you not find them in both - three central obstacles - of course, it may also be the other ones - of the constitutional review, as it is, if at last our government stability from the election of the President of the Republic and, above all, whether the ministers and the Members of Parliament will be equated with the other citizens, when we are controlled by justice, such as separation of rights into positive and negative, as is ultimately the vote of the Greeks? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Now the most important thing I'm going to close. Excuse me, but is there any reason to discuss and review when - when our Constitution, if we do not intend to respect it? Or, to say it otherwise, if we don't actually stick to it? Listen. The Council of State considered the first Memorandum of 2010 to be lawful and constitutional. It's a 2012 decision. I would like to speed up this, just to understand what I mean by my original phrase. Finally, the decision of the Supreme Court of Cassation was published, which rejected the appeals of the Athens Bar Association, ADEDY, the pensioners and other poor Greeks, who turned against our first memorandum. I say that because it's far away and we don't have passions. The dominance advisors hear how they judged it because it's interesting. They considered by a majority, although there were some minority groups on individual issues, that the memorandum did not need to be voted on by Parliament by a majority of 3/5, as it is not an international convention. According to the judges, the memorandum is not an international convention under Article 28 of the Constitution, so that it needs to be passed by parliament with an increased majority of eighty Members. In particular - listen to this - according to our country's advisors, despite the fact that the text of the memorandum has been drawn up in English, it is not an international treaty between the Member States of the Eurozone and Greece, nor much more between Greece and the International Monetary Fund, which has not signed the Memorandum. The ratification of the memorandum, according to the Council of State of our country, which it maintains, is supposed to be, and to check whether Article 36(2) of the Constitution is complied with, in accordance with this Council decision, that is to say we remain within sustainable levels after the cuts. Now, in 2020, if the same consultants consider that we have remained within sustainable levels, it is another conversation. At the same time, the full plenary of the Supreme Court ruled that the memorandum does not recognise powers to institutions of international organizations which in any way restrict the exercise of our national sovereignty. The Commission? The Eurogroup? The Euro Working Group anything? Nothing. At the same time, again, the Council of State, judging whether it is an anti-constitutional memorandum, says that the government retains its power to define the country's general policy. Excuse me, if that's the way it is, because once SYRIZA's gone to buy a boot, 750 million to the poor, you're throwing yourself away and saying, "Oh, don't you dare, they won't let you." Again, why are you flying and saying, as soon as Mr Mitsotakis goes to share 250 million in HNVY, 'fuck, do not share them, see if they will leave you'? It is clear that we all know in this House that the Greek Government cannot decide what it will give, nor who it will give, nor how it will give it. The Council of State, however, decided that the Greek Government could. Another point in the judicial decision is that reasons of public interest justify these cuts in pay, pensions and gifts, which are - annoyingly revert to - within sustainable levels. Is it? Really? I can't see it. Two and a half million unemployed, twelve thousand suicides, I don't know how many thousands of people are below the poverty line, a million or two million, according to other calculations. The reduction in remuneration and allowances established under the laws of these two Member States, etc. workers in the wider public sector are part of a wider programme of fiscal adjustment and promotion of structural changes, which will ultimately lead to an improvement in the future fiscal and economic situation. That is, in short, the sacrifices we all have to ‘eat’ will bring the country's salvation. I'm sorry, but these are for the 2010 Memorandum, in 2012 the Council of State had decided, now we are in 2019, ten years after the Memorandum and eight years after the decision, and I don't see any help in saving the country at all, I see all the sizes worse and on the road I see the poor people and those who are under the poverty line much more. Finally, it stresses that the provisions of the Memorandum do not conflict with articles of the Constitution, such as Article 2 for the protection of human value. The suicides we talked about before, where did they go? They are not in breach of Article 4 which guarantees the principle of equality, Article 5 on economic freedom, Article 17 on the protection of property. The auctions? Or isn't it? Maybe I am. The auctions? HICPIA? How many people didn't give all of their property, why are they just making 500 euros a month and asking them 5,000 euros a year for the state for HIS, for what the grandparents, grandparents, their parents, had acquired? Anyway. I wonder, so I don't get tired of you and I'll be done right away. I'm going to ask a rhetoric question. Were these people, ladies and gentlemen, crazy? I mean the State Counsellors. They were crazy, were they schizophrenic? What happened to them? It's obvious that people weren't crazy at all, they weren't schizophrenic, and most of whom, I'm able to confirm from this Step, they were and they're decent and honest people. So how is this mystery solved? Do you know how it solves? I'll tell you. It goes without saying, because the President of these people, like the Ice Bay, is appointed by another authority, by us, fortunately not, by you, by the executive. In order for the other consultants to be able to reach the highest positions in their sector, they must - with apologies for the expression - squeeze between the con sumers of changes in regimes and whenever they do not spoil the cane of any rulers. This whole thing is deeply ill, deeply morbid and has led to a constitutional memorandum that kills our country. You see, I think, everybody. It makes no sense to keep talking about it. Thank you very much for listening. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u106	The next speaker is Mrs Gerovasili Olga from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u107	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u108	Would you like to speak or ask for the floor for two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u109	I was the President of the court, and I want to refer to this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u110	Is that enough time for two minutes for what you want to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u111	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u112	The Vice-President of the Government, Mr Pikramenos, has the floor for a brief speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u113	Look, first of all, I would like to say that I am opposed to the suggestions of how judges are appointed. Judiciary officials are thus appointed by the Constitution to obtain democratic legitimacy. As President of the court at that time, aware of the seriousness of the situation in which the country is found - then I had the opportunity to see it even worse and as Prime Minister of the Government - I convened the plenary and I had to force sixty Vice-Presidents and Prime Ministers to come and meet. And for the minorities to which the main speaker referred,'sixty', the largest is in the 'Twelfth' number. I will not go into details of what the Memorandum was, because it was not what you said "the Memorandum". They were three contracts between the Greek State and various counterparties and most of the obligations were not from the MOU, but from the loan contract. I'll say one thing. Following the adoption of the Decision of the Council of State, the Bar Association appealed to the Court of Human Rights and the Court of Human Rights rejected the appeal of the Athens Bar Association on the same grounds as the decision of the Council of State. We all have sensitivity to the country. Let me understand the sensitivity and the obligation towards my country in a different way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u114	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u115	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u116	Let us not open a dialogue now, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u117	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u118	Here, you have the floor for a minute at most.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u119	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Mr. Pikrammenus, I think you haven't followed well. I have not accused you or any councillor of dominance. I have talked about the constant suffering of our political system, which unfortunately survives until today, to appoint the two senior judges of the highest institutions, who exist in the judiciary of the country by another authority. And I said that it's always a bad path, because it could create a complication. I'm talking about a pathogen that we're all gonna fix together. We won't fix it. We didn't come with the sword of the archangel. That's the one. The second thing I want to say is this: I really ask you, from the eight years on?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u120	No, don't ask. Please very much, Mr Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u121	I'm just wondering: Out of eight years later, is everything okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u122	Mrs Olga Gerovali has the floor from SYRIZA. Immediately afterwards, Mrs Marietta Giannakou, who is after five, six speakers, will follow, but because of the fact that she has raised a point, she has asked the Bureau to propose. I do not think this House has any objections. So then it will be Mrs Giannakou and then Mr Karasmanis. Here, Mrs. Gerovali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, we are used to saying something about which, of course, we all agree, namely that the Constitution is the fundamental stone of the constitution and that the process of constitutional reform is a leading moment in democracy. After ten years of economic crisis and three memoranda, with what they have brought to Greek citizens and the country, with which the country's independence has been affected, but also the Constitution and democracy, it would really be useful after all that our debate should go in depth and consider today what kind of state we want. For our part, we want a state of merit. We want social rule of law. We want to deepen democratic institutions. And certainly, because of the news, we don't want a police state. With regard to the Constitution, I would like to remind Mr Manesi of the fact that the rulings have the opportunity to demarcate and restrict the authority of the rulings. The Constitution is primarily an expression of the will of the sovereign people, and today we are here as representatives of it. And it is a debt of all the factions, of all the political forces, the constitutional review to be dealt with seriously and responsibly and not for micropolitical benefits. We have seen - we all know that and we have agreed on this - which led to micro-party purposes in the 2001 Review. There has been a very short amortization period, with the result that the ministers are being irresponsible. In the previous parliamentary term, we launched a process of such open consultation with civil society on the Constitution for the first time. Then we took irony for it. However, these findings are what SYRIZA used to submit the revision proposals. The Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, no matter how technical it is, is not about an enlightened elite sitting behind closed doors. It is about the civilization itself and one to one of the Greek citizens. Our proposal had precisely this objective, namely to strengthen popular sovereignty, bring their citizens, their needs and interests at the heart of the Constitution and its Review. At the same time, it is necessary to salvage the honor of the political system by overturning the institutional sins of the past. I'll be standing in just two parts. The first point is Article 86 on the criminal liability of ministers. Do you really think, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, but also of the Movement of Change and other parties, that there is even a Greek who does not want the scandalous irresponsibleness of the Ministers to be abolished? All political forces seem to agree to abolishing the suffocating deadline for prosecuting the parliament. And that's because society itself demanded it. However, it is not enough to review the provision in our view and in my view. It's half this job. One more thing is needed. The interpretative statement proposed by SYRIZA in Article 86 is required. The statement states that offences committed by the Minister at the time of his duties, with the example of passive bribery, are persecuted by regular justice and not by the House. That is fundamental, because we must trust justice, which on the same terms decides for all citizens. The prosecuting of Ministers for such offences is not subject to vague political criteria by the House, i.e. by a majority, but by justice. Thus, the principle of equal treatment and those offences must be brought back to the natural court. More importantly, it is also important to make it clear that, even if such acts have been carried out in the past, regular justice alone is the responsibility. As a result, there have been no cases of bribery in the last 15 years. The road to criminal prosecution can be opened and no one will have escaped, with a view to the short deadline laid down in Article 86. The second point I wish to make, because I also consider it very serious, is the election of the President of the Republic. It is true that the election of the President of the Republic must be freed from the dissolution of the House and the opening of early elections. On this point, too, we have all agreed. But this cannot be done at the expense of the institutional role of the President of the Republic. Greek society wants a President of the Republic who symbolizes the unity of all Greeks, over party differences, an international representation of the country with prestige and credibility. And it is absolutely certain that he does not want a party president. Our proposal on this issue ensures that Parliament is not dissolved in any way because of the failure to elect a president. In our proposal, even if they fail repeatedly to find a consensual solution from Parliament, the solution can be given by the sovereign people from whom they will be directly elected in the event of a dead end. What is the New Democracy's counter-proposal? The inconceivable. He may be elected President of the Republic by a minority of representatives of the National Representation. And it is not even excluded with seventy-five Members. What legalization does the President have then? Is this president a party? Ladies and gentlemen, matters also require consideration and seriousness. For our part, we have dealt with it with the requisite respect, with a high sense of responsibility towards the Greek citizens. Our aim was and is to strengthen and deepen the culture, further shield citizens' rights, strengthen transparency and restore the credibility of the political system. On the contrary, we have seen proposals from both the New Democracy and the Change Movement expressing tactics, serving small-party pursuits and giving conservatives. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. It is certain that neoliberalism has been avoided. That's the good thing. But a chance was lost to have a progressive constitution. I would remind you of the New Democracy's refusal to support the ban on gender discrimination and sexual orientation and of course the major issue of the distinction between the roles of the State and the Church. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u124	Mrs Marietta Giannakou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u125	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The current review process, of course, is of great importance not only because it is carried out at a distance from the previous one, but also because it seems that it regulates some shortcomings which could not be regulated in the previous ones. At the same time it creates certain conditions for consensus in certain articles and areas of the Constitution. As to whether it's fully satisfactory, I'd tell you no. If I asked myself, I would say that I would need a editorial assembly in fact and not just a review process, but it is clear that this political climate did not allow it. Mr President, the points which in some way modernise the Greek Constitution are of particular importance. A great deal has been said for years by colleagues and politicians about the famous Article 86. Everyone was complaining about Article 86, but Article 86 was not settled when it had to. Luckily, it's taking care of it now. A serious shortage that is not settled is Article 16. There are misunderstandings, Mr President. The misunderstanding is that there are not really private universities in Greece. There is the franchising system for which we have been repeatedly referred by the Commission to the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg and which has condemned us. And yes, colleges give professional rights - they don't give scientific titles - but in fact what's of interest to the labour market is professional rights. The opposition has forgotten that. We lost our chance in 2008 and today's opportunity is missing. It is also of enormous importance to Article 24. Article 24 has been discussed since the 1990s. It does not exactly clarify different categories of situation in which the environment is found, such as what forests are, etc. That's how we stay the same again. Mr President, with regard to the President of the Republic, if we look at the constitutions of the other European countries where the President does not have excellent powers, but simply symbolizes the unity of the State and nation, we will see that multiple votes are held until a decision is taken, such as in Italy. If we reconnect it, as SYRIZA proposes, to the general elections, to the referendum, as is said, then we will be on a zero basis again. We will have done absolutely nothing. It is up to us to consult on persons who are commonly accepted, ladies and gentlemen. Not persons on the one hand or on the other, but indeed common acceptance that can symbolize the unity of the nation. Mr President, today's revision of the Constitution does not include any other issues, such as the constitutional court which had long been established in our country. It's gonna take too many more years. I hope that the Greek Parliament will once again accept such a procedure in order to allow for the opportunity to deal with issues relating to the Constitution, but also with the preventive control that has to be carried out many times, as our rapporteur, Mr Javaras, has said, in order to give the opportunity to clarify certain issues and to stop the controversy of constitutionalists. I do not know why the constitutionalists need if the Constitution is clear and clear. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u126	We have a regional usefulness.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u127	Mr Karasmanis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are once again in the face of the enormous responsibility of the Revision of our country's Constitutional Charter, in the face of the ultimate challenge of the leading institutional process for the maximum improvement of the structures of democracy and the quality of our state. It is a process which, under the terms of a modern democracy, should be based in the first place on a political consensus as broadly as possible. Unfortunately, the previous government did not want to convene an unconscious majority in this House, in other words the proposed majority of the House, which, with unreserved and unresolved proposals, sought to cut off and sew constitutional reform to the measures of its own pre-election party interests rather than to national socio-economic interests. It is very recent, moreover, that the heavy climate that we have experienced at the time. I do not have time to expand to prove why this government, the previous government, was unable to reach the consensus of the political forces. On the contrary, on the side of the New Democracy and the Kyriakos Mitsotakis, a very wide-ranging consensus was shown in many articles of the Constitution and with proposals of modern, realistic, adapted to both local and European conditions that created the opportunity for a new start for our country. Even in our proposal then to open the debate on all major issues and leave the final decision in the Review House that would result from the forthcoming elections there was no response. In other words, the previous government, insisting on party ideas, attempted to meditate a lack and collaps Revision into a thematic limitation of the review process. This has been rejected by the then proposing majority of a number of articles proposed by the New Democracy, such as Article 24 on climate change with important corrective provisions that we have proposed for the effective protection of the environment, but have been rejected. One mistake, which the escalating mobilizations all over the planet remind us of every day. Like also Article 16 on modernising and upgrading higher education by which the previous governmental majority insisted on uncovered pragmatism: hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens trusting private education in kindergartens, primary school, high school, high school, but we deprive them of the right to study in non-state, non-profit universities. And what did we do with it? To send tens of thousands of our young people abroad and to foreign universities and possibly these children, tomorrow's minds stay away from our homeland forever. And in Article 3, which relates to religion, enclaved in its party ideas, the previous government proposed that it should be reviewed on the pretext of allegedly protecting religious freedom, neutral religion, as the Members of the parliament proposed invoking it, when this freedom, equal treatment of all religions by the state guarantees it and fully safeguards it under Article 13(1), without putting history, traditions and a vast majority of 95% of the Greeks, who are Christian orthodox. I said it then and I repeat it: the Church is not threatening the State. The State threatened the Church with its infamous precursor, which the previous government attempted to promote, by putting in a way of escaping our priests, who honor their shape and their mission and which, in particular, in the years of the terrible economic and social crisis our metropolitan cities were and constitute a support and virtue to undignified local communities. Ladies and gentlemen, we have extremely important provisions before us for review, such as the election of the President of the Republic. We must pay particular attention to Article 32, which has been proved to be the achilles heel of political stability. For many years, I will repeat myself, that it is absolutely essential that we finally disconnect the President of the Republic from the dissolution of this House, a practice which has been a repetition of decades of the proper functioning of our democracy. We lived this in the recent past, in 2009, in 2014-2015, and then if there was really a consensus and we were to elect the President of the Republic, and we did not go to elections, the course of our nation, our country, Greece would be completely different and we would not be in front of the economic and social deadlocks. Finally, let us accept that one of the most serious political and social uncertainty factors in our country is the unstable and fragile political scene, such as the artificially manipulated dissolution of the Parliament, in which the New Democracy proposal really gives a solution. The consensus in the election of the President of the Republic guarantees to the full the smooth constitutional rotation of governments, i.e. the prerequisite for attracting dynamic investment and economic and social recovery and development. Or is it not necessary to revise the provision for the vote of Greeks abroad? We have the opportunity and the advantage to measure the Hellenism of the Dispersion, and every time this major issue came to be discussed, we were able to use our own children's capital to enable them to participate in the events of our country to make the most of the Greek lobby and its voice. Today we have the opportunity to raise Greece by allowing our Parliament to represent not only the entire people but also the Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a historic opportunity to stand up to the circumstances, which is consistent with our responsibilities towards society and homeland. In this respect are the proposals from the New Democracy which, as I said, are modern, realistic and adapted to both local and European conditions and international conditions. It is very good that in the Committee on Revision of the Constitution, in which I have had the honour of participating, we have managed to live up to a semi-lethal review process, achieve and consolidate a climate of cooperation. This is due to the President, but also to a significant number of colleagues who participated in the committee. We managed to meet on some critical points. I believe that in the course of the whole week and until Monday we will be able to vote on the revised provisions, we will be able to get to grips with even more points. I hope and hope that this great historic opportunity will not be lost, not to repeat the mistakes made in the previous parliament. It wants virtue and boldness for democracy and requires that we arm ourselves with the power and determination, which requires from us the debt in the course of the country and in the next generations. Thank you, Mr President, for the tolerance of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-eight students and students and two fellow professors from the Bartholomew Music School of Elias. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Silver Skondra has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are starting the top parliamentary process of the Revision of the Constitution, a main political process drawn up by the National Representation and implemented by the executive. The Constitution of Greece is the Charter on which the formation of the entire legislation of the rights and obligations of the citizen is based, the organization and the basic rules of operation of the State and of the institutions. The vote of the first Greek constitution by the National Assembly of Epidaurus in January 1822 was the crown of the political history of the younger Greece at national level. Since then, thirteen Reviews have been carried out in our country. We are now called on to amend a number of articles, such as those passed by the Proposed House, which - I would remind you - had dealt with a hundred and fifty-four articles, provisions and paragraphs to be revised. Of these fifty - four, however, finally the forty - nine took the required number of votes to be revised. I would like to focus a little on this point, because at the time the majority of the SYRIZA banned the areas of the review process by subjugating to ideological and sterile political perceptions. There was a proposal from the New Democracy to open the debate on all the articles and leave the Review House which would come after the elections to decide. SYRIZA stood against it, turning the gaze away from the real needs of the next generations, denying the possibility to modernise parts of the Constitution regarding the national economy, development policy, the shielding of our modern political identity and the Greek language, as well as the improvement of the functioning of the state and the enforcement of rules of good law. So, Mr Colleague, you spoke earlier, the ten years of crisis were not enough to grow up after all by SYRIZA. Ladies and gentlemen, I firmly believe that the review process is a delicate process, which must be conducted solely in the interests of the country and its citizens over and above any party idealism and micropolitical thinking. I am thinking of a climate of political responsibility and seriousness that must prevail, because the changes we have to formulate are about future generations, when we will have virtually ceased to be in these benches. It is at least tragic that historical opportunities are lost to change things for the better, something that you charge you and you will be burdened with, gentlemen of SYRIZA. The most characteristic is the example of Article 16, namely the possibility of setting up a non-governmental, non-profit-making higher education institution under the supervision of the State. The New Democracy then, as opposition, had exhausted all the arguments. Unfortunately, your ideological incests have been summarised in a sterile refusal which you cannot actually justify. When the rest of the civilised world operates non-state institutions, which contribute billions of euros annually to the state budgets, we in Greece will have to wait, at least five years for a new proposer and five more for a Review House, plus for the current parliamentary term, so at least one decade more lost. It is tragic that the new international educational market of EUR 30 billion, which is growing annually by 7%, will be overcome by many benefits for the use of GDP. As for the downgrading of state universities by the government, as it has just been said, I believe that degradation and dismantling, ladies and gentlemen, occurs when universities are occupied and detained with the tolerance of a certain wing from here, from rioters, ballots, hoodmen and molotovs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have also lost the opportunity to amend Article 24 to create environmental equivalents that our country so much needs. However, I will not dwell any further on the obstacles that SYRIZA put in during the previous parliamentary term. The Government of New Democracy looks ahead and, despite the low expectations that had been created, a significant overthrow has achieved in the real opportunities, rejuvenating the reform process. Ladies and gentlemen, by pointing out that the provisions to be reviewed, as decided by the Revision House, are not all those that will bring about radical areas in the operation of our state. However, as far as the provisions for review are concerned, there has been a rich and constructive dialogue, as this is appropriate for a top-level parliamentary procedure, such as the present one. Among other things, the most important points are Article 21, where a minimum guaranteed income system is proposed to support the Greek family, Article 68 where the upgrading of the Greek Parliament to set up a committee of inquiry by the minority is achieved, a great and bold concession of the New Democracy to today's opposition. The immunity of the Member referred to in Article 62 shall be analyzed and the period of amortisation shall be abolished for the limitation of criminal offences by the Ministers. The procedure for the election of the President of Parliament under Rule 32 is clearly separated, and so the hostage and instability of the political system ceases, the hostage as I have said to the government. Finally, in Article 54, an effort is made to facilitate the vote of the Greeks abroad, so that the Greek Parliament can represent the entire nation and the Hellenism of the bearer of the earth. Revision of the Constitution is an ideal opportunity to bring our country back to normality, to modernise the state, to reconstruct our national economy and to give our country a strong voice again at European level and a new leading role in our wider neighbourhood. All of us must do our duty, particularly to the future generations, which will be, above all, the ones that will be called upon to move the country further ahead. Having this in mind, I confess that I feel particularly honoured and lucky to be involved in this rare parliamentary procedure and precisely because it is top, rare and decisive for the future of our country and the Greeks, I feel great and the burden of responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u131	The President of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Varoufakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the Review of a Constitution is a top moment for Parliament. At the same time as we feel the burden of responsibility, we must realise, of course, that a Constitution is nothing more, much more, than a wish and a little less than a joint declaration of intent. Because, in the end, no Constitution can give citizens of a country - such as ours, such as any other - rights, when the state itself is a substitute, no freedom can be attributed by a state of seal. We will remind a court whose decisions simply cannot be implemented, as is the case in that country. First, it is necessary to establish popular sovereignty and then to write a Constitution that confirms it, verify it, launch it, guide it. Over the last ten years in our country, basically our national independence has been destroyed, our own state. Our ministries remind themselves of Swiss cheese, which is missing, and the important decisions that should be made on them are not there. So we are talking about a humiliation of the existing constitution, which we are now reviewing. This does not mean that our work today is not important. This does not mean that the symbolisation of the Constitution, of its articles, is of no importance and is not a source of optimism, hope for the citizens, since we keep the order of magnitude in our minds, what we are trying to do. You know, we in Mera25 dislike patrioticism and always as internationalists and citizens of the world, we think we should learn from other countries and other peoples. But this is a moment when you will allow us as Mera25 to say that democracy in its true sense has been nowhere in the world, only in ancient Athens and for very few decades. In ancient Athens the term was defined by Aristotle. Democracy is the rule of the poor, because the poor by definition are in the majority. He may not have been a democrat himself, Aristotle himself, not in love with the concept of democracy, being held up by aristocracy, but the definition was crucial. And if we think about it, despite the fact that there was an exclusion of women, the exclusion of the brokers, the exclusion of slaves, yet in those few decades in ancient Athens we had a unique moment in the history of humanity, a moment when civilians, citizens of poor people, had an equilibrium and an equal vote in the Church of the Municipality. On the contrary, Western democracy, representative democracy does not have its roots in this idea, in the idea described so nicely by Aristotle. It has its roots in Magna Charta, where Magna Charta - not to be forgotten - was a treaty between the barons and the king, which guaranteed the rights of the barons, not the people, to the king, one of whom was the right to have slaves, whom the king would not touch. The development of the British Parliament, which was the first Parliament in Western Europe, of representative democracy, is beginning there. It's starting with Magna Charta. This is the first time a serious constitution has been written, a constitution that still guides the authors of constitutions worldwide. It is the Constitution of the United States, which, of course, started with the federal texts, with the 'federal papers' before writing the same thing. What do we see throughout this process, especially in the footnotes of the U.S. Constitution? We see a huge effort by the municipality to exclude from democracy, the municipality to advise, to consult politicians, to have where and where citizens have a vote, at regular intervals, but at the same time, the citizens, the many - and indeed the Americans - have used the ancient Greek phrase 'hoi Polloi', many - to be outside the decisions, not to risk the aristocracy of the owners of many. In other words, what we have seen for decades has been a democracy, a democratic city in the West, which is declining, which leads citizens to alienation, with ever lower rates of participation in the common. This for us, at Mera25, is not a failure of this representative process or democracy, but it is part of its design. But I will say it once again: the Constitution as a text is of great importance. One word, a small article of it can give power to democrats, power to popular masses, power to the weak, so that they make a difference. Let me remind you in the 1960s - I don't need to remind you, you remember, but I will mention it - an article, in 1.1.4, in that Constitution, unclear, authoritarian, unacceptable, was capable of donating, giving strength, strengthening protesters in favour of democracy. 1.1.4 was the beginning of the Polytechnic School that we celebrated yesterday on the streets of Athens with a truly grand gathering. And since I am talking about the Polytechnics, ladies and gentlemen, from all the wings, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Polytechnics is actually living in Hong Kong today. Right now that we're talking about the five hundred students of Hong Kong Polytechnic are trapped in the Hong Kong Polytechnic, just like was going on here in November of '73, with the police enclaved them. At the moment when we are talking to the Members of the Greek Parliament, without any willingness to participate in this, I think that, especially during the debate on freedoms and rights, which gives and offers a Constitution, our minds should be in Hong Kong, to these students of the Hong Kong Polytechnic who are re-creating, as they have to do every generation, conditions of combat, fight for democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, a country is judged, like a family, by the way in which it treats its weakest members, which is why it is of fundamental importance for us in this debate - and we will develop this in the days ahead - to protect the weak, at least verbally, at least through the articles of the Constitution. The Constitutions of representative urban democracies over the last 100 years make a distinction between negative freedoms and positive freedoms. Negative freedoms are, in fact, an attempt to protect the privileged, the right of the owner not to take his home - unless he is a banker! - the right of the owner to have a strong fence that protects him from the poor, from the thief, from the thief, from the state itself if he falls into the hands of a progressive force that wants to redistribute wealth. As far as positive freedoms are concerned, they always refer to urban constitutions and some proposals, which offer... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Am I disturbing you, Mrs. Bakoyannis?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u133	No, I asked a question, Mr. Varoufakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u134	You did not ask a question, you keep talking, but it is your right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u135	That's what I'm talking about, you'll get used to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u136	I'll get used to it. Your kindness will have to become accustomed to it in the near future.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u137	Go on, Mr. Varoufakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u138	Positive freedoms, as reflected in urban constitutions, are essentially a hypocrisy. They are talking about safeguarding labour rights in social security, in the labour market, but rights which the social systems, to which we live, from their construction, cannot pay off. It is not wrong that we are referring, just as Mera25, to emphasise the next few days with our proposals to have a third pole, a wedge between negative and positive rights. Freedom doesn't only mean you don't have to worry about entering your house. This is an important freedom, because if you live in fear that someone will enter your home you are not a free man. But there is another freedom, which must be guaranteed to the people, freedom from exploitation. And the worst forms of exploitation are those in which the weak agree, because they have no alternatives, and that is where the state, both legally and institutionally, and of course through the Constitution, has to make it clear that it is on the side of the weak, giving them the opportunity to say no to degrading and exploitation contracts. At the same time, when we talk about education, we are not talking about education, education is important. We are talking about development rights, the right of the individual, of the young, even the old and the older, to form, to develop as a person, not as a tool, which will be used by an employer, but because education and development of the character must be a constitutional right. The protection of the weak will therefore be one of the pillars, which will determine the interventions of Mera25 in this debate on constitutional reform. The other pillar will be democratisation. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go a little back to ancient Athens, to which I referred earlier. I would like to remind you of something that is considered paradoxical in today's society. When the conflict between democrats and aristocrats took place at a philosophical level, on a rhetoric level, at political level in the Church of the Municipality, what was the most interesting part of that conflict? The democrats were against the elections and the aristocrats were in favour of the elections. The argument of the democrats against the elections is that the aristocrats always have the way to influence the elections even through their good rhetoric that they have acquired, because they had the money to ensure the best rhetoric, teachers for their children. And what was the democratic proposal then? The draw, the clerk, the fact that most of the important decision-making positions were being taken. Even the judges were being paid and every six months they changed. We, as Mer25, will put it both in the debate on the Constitutional Review, but also in the whole of every bill, which concerns independent authorities, elections, collective decisions, we will introduce the idea of the contributors and, in particular, a new institution that we believe this Constitution should also provide for the law after it, the institution of the DICKEP, the Counselling and Elected Citizens, with the majority being confiscated, the 2/3 and 1/3 being elected. I will give you two examples, I could give you twenty, but I do not have time and I do not want to tire you. First, board on education and education. If we simply create a National Education Council, the parties will appoint their own, we will have a crass of the House in this National Training Body. If we want to make a decision on the development of the development plan for Crete, Thrace, Epirus and simply appoint either the regions or us, we will still have a reflection of the composition of the Parliament on the regional councils. We propose that there should be a permanent body, a DISCIP, consisting of 1/3 of contributors, university teachers, high school teachers, 1/3 citizens, just like the jury and 1/3 appointed by the parties, the experts representing the parties. When it comes to, for example, the development planning of Crete or what will happen with mining in Yannina, I believe that citizens do not have confidence in the regions. I believe that the regions should be one of the levers of development in the region, but they should respond and should be interviewed by councils, where elected representatives are represented, but at the same time there should be contributors, who will interrogate, ask questions, hear questions from experts and finally make proposals that citizens will then choose which of these proposals they want, through a process of consultation and referendum. We propose the same for the President of the Republic. On the one hand, the current situation cannot continue, on the other hand, we cannot allow the President of the Republic to be elected from one hundred and fifty Members only. We do not want universal suffrage, because that then alters the essence of the culture, from the point of view that the President of the country will have received many more votes than the Prime Minister, but it will not have any more competence than the current President of the Republic. We propose something very simple, one vote in Parliament. If we manage and agree between us and two hundred MPs vote for one candidate or one candidate, otherwise a PIC is elected, where the MPs are one/3, six hundred others are confiscated and they decide who the President of the Republic is. I'll see you in more detail as long as the days are over. I'm closing up, saying about our third pillar. The first was protection of the weak. The second was democratisation. The third is equality, equilibrium, neutrality and tolerance. It is not possible, ladies and gentlemen, for the Constitution to refer to the country's prevailing religion. It is the religion of the country that is, of each citizen separately and different groups. We are talking about total abolition in any reference to it. And finally, let us grow up a little bit as a country and as a state. What are those sworn things? Do we need to swear? Neither a political oath is needed, nor a religious oath. When you take a position, you are responsible for the Constitution, against the laws. That's what had to be disobeyed. Equality means that we, you, I, all of us must not have any parliamentary or ministerial immunity. There must be a complete abolition of any immunity, of any Member of Parliament, of any minister. We have made concrete proposals - the Angeliki Adamopoulou tabled them - on how ministers and MPs should be persecuted. The same for the owners, with the ancient Greek term, whether they are immigrants or refugees. Same for the emigrants. Equivalence and equilibrium means what Mera25 proposes for the migrants from the outset, electoral regions where they live, so that we have within this Parliament elected Greek American, Greek Australian, from Central Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to remind you of what I said at the outset, once again: a constitution is destabilised and undermined when there is obvious hypocrisy. I would remind you that the great Thomas Jefferson, one of the greatest praisers of freedom, had slaves, whom he did not even agree to release after death. So is the Soviet Union. Can I remind you? Anyone who reads the Constitution of the Soviet Union can only admire an excellent text. But the lack of democratic procedures actually turned it into an empty shirt. Here, we must combine realism with a text that highlights our values to the extent that they may be common. And where they cannot be common, to highlight the values that arise through democratic processes. Napoleon said a Constitution must be short and inconceivable. We in Mera25 believe that a Constitution must be short and crystalline. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u139	Mr Stylianides has the floor for a brief speech for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I did not intend to intervene, but the way Mr Varoufakis spoke despairfully about the country's fundamental map, the country's state map, caused me. You know, vocabulary and linguistry are very charming in the political speech. But when they encroach on politics, many times, they may lead him to deceptive phrases, not on texts, but on institutions that have identified both the history of this nation and of this country, but on peoples in general. The Constitution, as we all know and serve it, is not a sum of wishes and unrealistic or false hopes. The Constitution includes a number of rules which allow us today to function maturely as a democracy and allow Mr Varoufakis to have the Step of the House to speak his views. Above all, the Constitution has guaranteed after many sacrifices and social or other struggles of the Greek rights to conduct, which enable every person who lives in this country, appealing to justice, to claim what he is entitled to. That's what the Constitution safeguards. The courts, the Greek justice, even during the ten-year crisis, made the Hellenic Republic, making decisions that protected important social rights. If all of this were not there, if this text were not dead, as Mr Varoufakis said, it did not produce results, we would not be standing up here today to restore the damage caused by the crisis over the last ten years. I would therefore like to ask, when, in this Chamber and indeed, in this top review process, we are talking about the Constitution, at least, respecting all those who, before us, have fought and been sacrificed so that they can guarantee the quality of our democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u141	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u142	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u143	What exactly do you want, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u144	I would like to raise a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u145	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u146	Thank you very much. Mr President, I will not raise a point of order. When the procedure was defined in the Conference of Presidents, it was said that the political leaders - I am not saying it for Mr Varoufakis, to God, I do not want to be misunderstood - will take the floor, if they so wish, on Monday. The rest of the procedure was established, as Mr Tsoulus mentioned this morning. The ministers have not confined themselves to two of what I have heard to speak these five days. I wonder: Are the Chiefs free to talk any day they want? It is in the context of the general rules. But I wonder: Is that how we're going to get it? If that's the case, then we should take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u147	What do you mean by "so we'll take it?" To understand what you're asking? Does it include a hint in that a Chief will come every day to intervene?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u148	No, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u149	Mr Varoufakis chose to intervene today.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u150	He chose to speak now and not on Monday? No, of course not.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u151	There's no such agreement, Mr. Loverdo. What can I tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u152	I would ask that the Bureau be consulted, so that we, as a party, can also know...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u153	But I can't forbid a group president...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u154	That's what I'm saying. Listen to me. Contact the Bureau if this discretion concerns all the Heads and all the days. It'll be different from what we decided.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u155	Good. We'll see, Mr. Loverdo. From there on, however, we cannot deprive ourselves of the floor or give the floor to a President of Parliament, regardless of what has been discussed at the Conference of Presidents. We'll see. Mr. Armalene has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA government took the initiative in the previous parliament to move on to the Revision of the Constitution, since since the last Review of 2008, serious subversive events had taken place, with the memoranda that the country has known since 2010. Our goal was immediately after leaving the memorandum, in August 2018, to move the country into a large section with the institutional change of the supreme law, the Constitution. And this institutional change was aimed at the armouring and foundation of the democratic culture, the upgrading of the credibility of the political system, the distinction of the State from the Church, the protection of public goods, the safeguarding of social and individual rights. Unfortunately, the elections of 7 July reversed the direction of the spirit and letter of the Review of the Constitution that we had started, by way of derogation from the viewpoint of many valid constitutionalists, who argue that the proposed parliament, namely the previous parliament, also defines the direction. Thus, what they received from a hundred and fifty one votes to seventy nine votes, and now a hundred eighty votes were required to vote in practically, they were thrown into the ballot of the useless. I shall mention at least eighteen articles which were rejected by the government majority and which, in our opinion, constitute - and they constitute - the quintany of a progressive constitution, which is seen in the future rather than in the past. Article 3(1) and (2) refers to the religious neutrality of the Greek state with recognition of the prevailing religion, without recognition of official state religion, a step towards separating the role of the Church and the State. Unfortunately, the new government's majority has resurrected and annulled this whole case, as well as the fundamental European acquis. Article 5(2): Ensure the absolute protection of life, the honor and the freedom of citizens, without discrimination on grounds of sex and sexual orientation. Another removal and overthrow of the European acquis. Article 13(5): Occupation of government officials and civil servants with political oath. It is a precedent of the previous article. Article 21(3): State guarantee for the right to health and the obligation of the State to provide universal access to the National Health System. Add a new paragraph to Article 21, which has of course also been rejected: Ensuring basic social goods such as water, electricity and distribution networks in public service and public control. Article 22(1): Protection of the right to work by the State, equal pay for equal work, regardless of sex and age. And we continued in Article 22(2): Enforcement of working conditions, collective agreements and collective bargaining. Paragraph 4 in the same article: Prohibition of a job and award of special laws. In the case of war, confiscation, theory and risk to public health, there should be specific legislation. Prohibition of servicing services as a measure to deal with the strike. Article 22(5): Establishment of a single, public, redistributive universal social security system. This whole article is the quintuosity of the impending and defending basic rights of workers and citizens, against the arbitraryness of market immunity and neoliberalism. Article 25(3): Jurisdiction and due diligence in the exercise of individual and social rights. Article 28(2): Clearance by a referendum of international agreements or treaties in the event of a transfer of sovereign rights of the State. Article 32(4): The rejection of our proposal to elect the President of the Republic by repeated votes within six months or by the people in the event that the 3/5 principle was not reached. This proposal, which is now being passed by the New Democracy, is a proposal for the perfection of both the process and the finality of the person who will take over by a single-party majority the supreme institution of the President of the Republic. SYRIZA in 2005 - and rightly so - followed a reasonable broad consensus that he made in the election of the current President of the Republic, and in this choice he insists today. Rule 37(2): The Prime Minister is required to have the parliamentary status. Article 44(2): Call for a referendum on national issues following a request from five hundred thousand citizens, as well as the right to a referendum at the request of a million citizens on social issues. Also in another article below - I see that time is going through, so I speed up - the right to propose a law from a hundred thousand citizens. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In Rule 86, many Members have spoken - it is indeed a reproach to not putting the interpretative statement, which extends the offences not only in the performance of the duties but also in the performance of the duties. It is a very serious issue, which shields the political system and makes it credible in relation to the untrustworthiness that has been found for many years against society. I would like to end, Mr President, by two articles, Article 101(1) and Article 102. It's about decentralisation. One is a proposal for a decentralised system, with the law laying down the system of regional state organization. And secondly, to recognise - as has been recognised in Article 101 of the previous Review - the particular conditions of island and mountain regions, so that the joint legislator and the administration, when acting in regulations, are obliged to take account of these particular circumstances. Finally, the mere proportionalness to the OTAs, which you abolished from the first laws, and the mere proportionalness to the political system that was previously and from the acceleration, I did not mention it. Ladies and gentlemen - I close, Mr President - the rejection of all of these earlier provisions keeps the country's rule in previous decades, especially with regard to the discrimination of roles between States and the Church and the safeguarding of social and individual rights. It is crucially far from being accepted by the European acquis, and the non-acceptance of the interpretative declaration in Article 86 to include the responsibility of Ministers in offences such as bribery, for example, makes the political system even more permeable and detests it in society.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u157	Mr. Symblene, I think the limits of tolerance have been exhausted now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u158	I'm done. Finally, decentralisation and islandity, in relation to the present power of the central state, remain at a time when the proposed provisions are not supported.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u159	If you're not helping, Mr. Colleague, what can I tell you? The Bureau will no longer be involved. Do what you understand. If you don't keep the seven minute, speak as much as you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u160	There is room for islandity. The majority Members also mentioned it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u161	Mr Syrigos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u162	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the requirements for a modern constitution are now radically different from those of the 1970s and 1980s. At that time, it was a question of creating a secure democratic culture and ensuring the individual rights of citizens. On this subject the authors of the 1975 Constitution have succeeded. We are living the most stable and longest period of democracy in the history of the modern Greek state, with smooth changes in power completely different between political parties. The demands today, however, are different. A state must operate in a globalised world and in a highly competitive international environment. In the globalised era it is important that a state should be able to exploit its powers and, above all, to adapt to developments. This possibility has been described as ‘purpose’, is the translation of the English word ‘capacity’. So the questions raised in relation to the Constitution are three: to be able to recognise the problems of the time, to address them either by resolving them or proposing alternative positions and to be treated democratically and acceptably by the majority of society. Thus, the conditions are created for both prosperity and wealth and for the protection of the individual in his everyday life. Thus, Greece can take part in international procedures that concern it directly, to ensure its financial needs and security. The question is often asked whether the pursuit of a powerful state is anachronism in a globalised era. The answer is that economic operators still prefer investment to powerful states rather than weak and insecure states, which cannot guarantee the safety and stability of their system. What is our problem with the current constitution? His strictness. 'Strict' in constitutional law means the cases in which the constitutional texts, which are amended or repealed by a special procedure, are more difficult than the corresponding procedure for common rules of law. When do we have a problem? When the Constitution contains very detailed constitutional arrangements and there are extremely strict provisions on its revision. We now come to an Review, which is anemic and moves to the least common denominator. The proposed articles do not contain any preposterous strategy for a comprehensive revision of the Constitution. When we are talking today about fundamental fundamental concepts, such as the election of President of the Republic or the responsibility of Ministers, it is like addressing first-year students under constitutional law. In this sense, my colleague's view is confirmed at the university headquarters, Evans Hatzidis, who has noticed that when we have consensual procedures, we have reached the minimum common denominator, while instead of the constitutional proposals from a political force - as happened in the 1911 and 1975 constitutions - they are conducting sectors both in the Constitution and in society. What would be the points on which we should advance more boldly? The first, in my opinion, would be the way in which the highest judges are chosen. It must be upheld by the will of the government majority. Second point: Greece in the ninety-nine years of its free life has failed to demonstrate that it can operate an effective state-of-the-art bureaucratic mechanism. It is an issue that we have never dealt with in the Constitutions before. A third point relates to the protection of the citizen in 2019. We are usually referring to issues of individual and social rights. Let me tell you another example. The question of explicitly abolishing the possibility of successive extensions of the time limit for the limitation of the public’s tax claims in the context of the constitutionally regulated prohibition on retroactive taxation. It is a minimum denominator and a rule on legal certainty. And since I am referring to legal certainty, the court has to control the constitutionality of the laws. He has employed the legal world, he has employed the citizens, he has employed legal science every time a review process begins. In our country the tradition of the diffuse concrete and incidental constitutionality check has prevailed. A characteristic example of the law on insurance - which took the name of the then Minister, Mr Katrugalou - which had to be passed three years after his vote to judge the judgment of the anti-constitutional provisions. It's obvious we need to establish a constitutional court. I believe that this is also the question of setting up a special section in the Council of State for the rapid trial of major public procurement and private investment cases. The last point is the rationalisation of the organisation and functioning of the independent authorities. One step is taken with this Review. It makes it easier to choose the members of the independent authorities, but we need to look at it a little differently. We have constitutionally guaranteed independent principles. But there are other principles that are extremely important. All of this results in the need for simpler and faster procedures for the revision of the non-essential provisions of the Constitution. Unfortunately, what we actually have is a product of consensus. It is a positive step that is taking place. We finally move on to distinguish the issue of the election of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the House. It is a very important issue, as is the question of the Members' responsibility for their functions. From there on, however, we hope that in the next Review we will be able to touch on what the place needs in order to be able to move forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u163	Thank you to Mr Syragos and to the consistency in time. Mrs Bakoyannis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, many things have been heard in this House and we should cease to be surprised by the political speech of some colleagues. However, I feel the need to make this statement: I, in the thirty years that I have been in this House, have never felt a Member of the enslaved nation. I have been imprisoned in my life on a junta, but I have never been a entrepreneur, and I believe that what has been heard here today, on enslaved nation, on state - seal and on lack of national sovereignty, is unacceptable and should not be the political forces denounced. Because there is always murmurism, ladies and gentlemen. We hear them and do not pay attention, because they come from people who have taken a particular route in the country. However, when they are called by the Step of the House, they need special attention and special reaction. And I now come to our point. The debate on the Constitution is indeed the most serious debate one can have in the House. And it was quite rightly said by the previous colleague that what we are discussing today, the provisions which we are discussing today, are the least common denominator. The reality is also - and it was also rightly said earlier - that if the 1975 Constitution was a Constitution that had that duration and actually met the needs of that time, it was because there were no compromises in the 1975 Constitution. And the 1975 Constitution was then passed by a single party, but it lasted and lasted and we are all talking today about the progressiveity of the 1975 Constitution. Today this House has lost a very great opportunity. And he lost a very great opportunity - and I feel the need to say it again, although you have heard it too many times during today's day - we have lost a great opportunity in Article 16, ladies and gentlemen. And since I've lived before, I want to describe exactly the same picture, the same wooden words, the same argument. One argument which does not take into account the fact that people have changed, that even in North Korea there are non-state universities. No, we there, stuck in the logic of 1975, 1976, 1980, and depriving our children of potential, deprive us of resources, we deprive a country like our own to become an international Mediterranean - at least - an educational centre. And you know what you're doing isn't right. You know that very well. And we lived it with PASOK. Georgios Papandreou had made a statement in favour of the abolition of Article 16 and when he came to the House "he ate", because there were some - many of them today in SYRIZA - MPs who broke their clothes and spoke of the need to vote against. And today we're losing ten years again. Put on the past ten years, and we've reached twenty years. We've lost twenty years for an idealism, for nothing else. The second is the provision for the environment. Ladies and gentlemen, where is this great ecological, environmental sensitivity anyway? Where is this need to adapt the country to changes in the environment, which are already visible? We in Crete have been devastated after the other - and we have already been talking today - over the last few years. Are you saying that you have a 'green' sensitivity, you say that you are sensitive to the environment and have not even discussed the revision of this article? As if we were blind, as if we were hiding our heads in the sand, as if we do not want to have any interpretation of what is exactly forest in Greece, how we can protect this forest. Like making some of you know you don't know that Perama is a forest, the built Perama today is a whole forest. It's like you don't live in this country, but you insist dogmatically. I very much regret that you have insisted on these two weaknesses and so you have not given the majority the opportunity to revise them. I now come to an issue which is very important to me. The New Democracy has given examples of writing, ladies and gentlemen, samples of democracy writing, signs of writing that no party so far, when it was in the government's majority, has given. None! We have given examples of writing, firstly by bringing in the possibility of two committees of inquiry to propose them. I have been following the House all day and I have not heard a SYRIZA colleague mention it, say "fuck my child, that's right". Finally, the minority when you give something, when you're a majority, shows how you understand the function of democracy. I didn't hear you, ladies and gentlemen. Any proposals for a committee of inquiry in New Democracy were voted against, contrary to you, who are systematically voting against them. It is how we understand the function of democracy and how you understand it. I now come to a proposal from the Change Movement, a proposal tabled by Mr Lovers. I also had the opportunity to be positive in committee. I want to repeat it now. It is indeed a good proposal. If five hundred thousand people put their signature under a proposal and want this proposal to be discussed in the Greek Parliament, that must be possible. And I would also ask our committee chairman - and I would like to congratulate him on the excellent work he has done during his term of office and on the way in which he has conducted the work of the committee -, Mr Stylianides, if we can and does agree that the majority of the New Democracy colleagues should include it, because it is another step after this step for the committees of inquiry, which shows that in democracy one of the ways that is being proposed, which can undoubtedly be positive, must be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u165	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, thirty-three students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st General School of Kilkis (first Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Anagnastopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the final straight of a very important parliamentary procedure, which is the constitutional review. I would also like to say how important the work of the committees, and of the Committee of the Proposed Parliament, of the first revision, and of the then President, Mr Paradise and of the Vice-President, Mr Tragakis, and of the members who are no longer in this House, such as Mr Dousina, as well as in this second Revision House, Mr Stylianides as President, Mrs Ahtsoglou as Vice-President, etc. There have been productive and creative discussions. I mean, Revision of the Constitution is always an important, top point. But, especially at this review moment, we are just at the threshold of exiting from a traumatic period, such as the economic crisis, and on the other hand, we are at the threshold of the two hundred-year anniversary of the Greek Revolution. So, here this House and the previous one had nothing to do but get the experiences, what happened in the difficult times of the crisis and also talk to the future, but above all on this great route of the Greek nation, the Greek state, for almost two hundred years. It was therefore a difficult, synthetic and creative process, which of course always has to do with what risks exist in the present and future. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] I heard all day today and by Mrs Bakoyannis, but also by all the speakers and speakers of the New Democracy, that we have lost a great opportunity to make progress, which was Article 16. The issue is from which side, for the benefit of what and how one looks at progress. In a period of globalisation, economic crisis or recession that can exist again worldwide, a constitutional review, first of all, as all the great constitutionalists of this place have said, offers battle positions for society itself, battle positions to protect itself. It would therefore be a revision of Article 16 for private universities. I don't want to talk. We have spoken, we have debated this very much. I'm not going to, because I don't have time. But I want to say one thing. So progress is the revision of Article 16. Is it not progress to revise Article 3 of the Constitution "Relations between States and Church"? How many years, how many decades since the 19th century to this day, how much ink has been spilled on the relationships between State and Church, which I shall speak about tomorrow? But I have heard some speakers from the New Democracy calling us ideological on this issue. In other words, it was the Korai, idealist and King Ferraeus, idealizing all the great intellectuals of this country, according to the New Democracy. The second issue. Would it not be a revision of Article 5 that extends human rights? A great constitutionalist said that the Constitutional Review does nothing but "constrain" social matter, i.e. reintroduce to bed or broaden the river bed to enter social matter. Is it possible in 2019, when we talk about progress, not to review Article 5 in terms of extending human rights without criteria of sex, sexual orientation, gender identity? Is it possible, especially at a time when we are seeing increased gynaecologies, that we see murders of people due to sexual orientation or gender identity - I am referring to Jacques Kostopoulos - or a number of such phenomena? These people, these citizens can't be seen in the constitutional field, have an enhanced battle position? Third matter. You say that progress would be the revision of Article 16. Wouldn't the simple analogue progress be? Would not enlargement and the creation of channels of communication between society and the institutions of representative democracy? One thing globalisation has done - and that is what the world's largest intellectuals have said - is that the more it alienates decision-making centres, which are becoming far more supranational, the more society is being alienated from these decision-making centres. And that's how the far right rises. So what is needed is to strengthen the direct negotiation channels of society with representative institutions. Isn't that progress? Isn't this an important battle spot in society? Wouldn't that be progress? He said Mr. Varoufakis before that 1.1.4. was in a Constitution for Fighting Democracy, but it was a great battle. I agree. It is not about social rights, about not suspending social rights, about social goods, about public goods, health, water, etc. to be guaranteed in the Constitution? Are they not important forwarding positions for a society to be able to defend itself in critical times and not just defend her or defend herself, something more, to be able to exist, to have the tools possible to defend herself? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Unfortunately, I have no time, but I would like to say one thing. You keep talking about security and protection. Protection, therefore, is not human rights and social rights. Protection is always something else. I shall end with Rule 86 and the interpretative statement which we have discussed and which has not been accepted. Why does such an interpretative statement matter right now? Getting out of a traumatic period - and this is what the historians always say - we have a transitional period towards normality - we do not have regularity with a twist of the button, the switch - which requires an elementary sense of justice and justice. This must be reflected in this constitutional review. Finally, I say one thing because I have heard it from some speakers: Article 101(2) and (4) for self-government, island and mountainous regions. If we are all cut off for the country's demographic situation, for the specificities of the island and mountain region, this possibility of administrative self-sufficiency, of administrative determination of these areas, should be allowed to deal with such problems. I think that an opportunity has been lost, although some steps are taking, for a constitutional review which could be discussed with what we are doing all the time, that we will celebrate the two-year anniversary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u167	And we thank Mrs Anagnastopoulou. Mr. George Mulkiotis has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr President. When I was attending the amphitheatres, both the late Aristovous Manesi and then George Kasimatis referred to the Review of the Constitution, in fact, I had something different, which, unfortunately, I do not see today. Of course, I am pleased to be involved in this House and in the process of constitutional review that began about a year ago, but I am not as happy as it is with regard to the work produced and produced, as it appears that the revision top of the Review is completely missing. We are losing an extremely important review opportunity in order to regulate issues caused by inner-party ambiguity. The work produced does not relate to the citizen himself as a party, as governor, as a subject of the economy, as well as to a political subject. The Constitution of a country must concern us all, as it founds and serves the character of our democratic culture, so the changes that would be expected to be reflected in the proposals for the Review should be matched with the new needs and demands of our political system. Will you allow me here to listen to what our rapporteur, Mr Loverdos, said - and it was very bold - that this procedure should be cancelled and that we should go to a new procedure and a new Review, so that we do not have a great opportunity for about a decade? Adapting to the new data is an urgent need for our country. Our harmony with changing needs and conditions is an indicator of the deepening and widening of rights, policies and human rights, individual and collective. Constitutional Reviews, carried out from time to time, reflect the quality and maturity of democracy, as they are linked to existing links between political and social forces. A Constitution is characterised as a preservative if the state has sterile institutional processes, serving short-sighted party pursuits. On the contrary, it is progressively the one that goes beyond the entrenched formalisms, giving breath to the political life of the place, to parliamentaryism, and in practice to the contrary to the partisan rule. The House, as a Review, heard it was not bound by the directions of the first, because the electorate is involved, because the people's sovereignty is expressed, as has been analysed by the late professor, Nikolaos Saripolos in his writing, which is a historical source and has influenced legal science and constitutional law so far, that is, there is a historical framework that is very great and we have a uniform political practice. In the Reviews since 1975, no guidelines have been laid down, but the need for a review and the revised provisions have been numbered according to the number of the Article, paragraph or of the subparagraph. It is therefore necessary to pay special attention to the review project and to focus on major pathogens, leaving out, so-called progressive proposals, but concealing choices of constitutional populism. People's proposals of this type may appear popular, but there are serious institutional risks. Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Review to come to a successful outcome has been called upon to amend critical constitutional arrangements, above party conflicts, with a partnership of political order, civil society and the scientific community. It has been mentioned, and unfortunately, that this Review is a reduction in expectations. There have been micro-political purposes and major issues remain behind. Unfortunately, the constitutional review initiated by the SYRIZA government during the previous parliamentary term is progressively falsified. The changes promoted did not address the distortions and shortcomings of the existing constitutional framework, were not aimed at strengthening the institutions and neither was it transferred to the constitutional level, the experience of the crisis. After ten years of crisis, during which the institutions were tested, we had intensive judicial control of unconstitutionalism, changed the structure of the European Union's constitutional order, changed economic governance in the euro area, in the European Union, but the changes promoted have dealt more with early issues, such as the functioning of the Parliament, not with fundamental issues of economic, constitutional law, or with the introduction of an obligation of the state to adopt actions to tackle climate change - which is here - and the protection of biodiversity. Our group, ladies and gentlemen, has tabled a package of proposals for the revision of constitutional provisions in the direction of upgrading the overall functioning of the state, strengthening citizens and consolidating the rule of law. Unfortunately, the polarisation between the two gladiators, formerly and now, in the government and the opposition, overshadowed the debate on the constitutional review, to a large extent canceling the historic value of the project. As a result of this degeneration, the historic opportunity for deep sections and brave steps forward, which are all included in the proposals of the Change Movement, such as our rapporteur, Mr Loverdes, has tabled. We have seen an awkward and foreign constitutional policy, the practice of SYRIZA, with populist features, and on the other hand, a paradoxical attitude of the New Democracy accompanied by a denial of the substance of constitutional policy. The proposals made by the previous majority had features of presenting a petty and defensive attitude to Article 16(5) and (8). Its attitude was incomprehensible in attempting to introduce a stable electoral system, rhetorically to demagogics without real regulatory content, was an expression of constitutional populism, which is typical of the exclusion from the constitutional reform of the rule of budgetary equilibrium. It was irresponsible after the experience of the crisis and in relation to the European identity of the country. But the proposals of the New Democracy, as a former opposition officer, were problematic because large issues were opened, but they want greater processing and maturation. There is an example of a lack of interest in the Constitution for actions to safeguard human rights and a fair distribution of wealth produced in the modern environment of technological development and applications of artificial intelligence. Ladies and gentlemen, a lot can be said about the Constitution and its Review. I believe, however, that if we really want to be useful and effective in the country, we must all be responsible, when we have a Constitutional Review and always with our eyes on the future, with a partnership between the parties, civil society and the scientific community, but with great weight, overcoming the contingencies of the parties with a view to consensus. Because the country is our common home and it's tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u169	Thank you. Mr. Vitch from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u170	Ladies and gentlemen, I have followed the work of the committee and have tried to help find solutions. I also attended today's sitting, at least 90%, and I understand the following, that the vast majority of this House is saying that we have a lost opportunity here. And the last speaker from the Change Movement said so. But, another missed opportunity we, another missed opportunity you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u171	For another reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u172	For other reasons. We're going to six changes that we made seven and finally nine, and that with the particular insistence and effort of Mr. Stylianides and the rapporteurs...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u173	Not just Mr. Stylianides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u174	I told the rapporteurs. And you, Mr Loverdo, were to the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u175	Special report.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u176	And Mr. Loverdou! The changes were made to nine of the forty-nine. The responsibility for this lies primarily with the ideological obsession of the New Democracy. And I don't say it as an accusation, I understand it, I justify it, so it will. Since this morning, then, I have heard the New Democracy say, with all its speakers, that this is a long lost opportunity for two things. In other words, New Democracy, if it started the constitutional review, we would have nine plus two, i.e. eleven changes. And what are these two things that have an ideological background? Article 16 for private universities and Article 24 for the environment. I would just like to say this: you have no doubt that in the coming years too there will be a political and ideological battle. We will fight, so that higher education, as other pieces of education and health have been traded, and you will fight to trade, saying that we lose a piece of the 30 billion pie, that we could become a center of what I do not know, I imagine the ancient Greek philosophy or literature that can cover it and, if you like, also cover private colleges. For me, this concept doesn't take us forward, it takes us back. It takes us a lot back in the period of the first capitalism - let me say it this way - where everything was private. Then came the need for the social elite to say "why should I pay for the reproduction of society?" and began to support this elite, the state, the public universities, as is the most correct expression. But now that it's a merchandise, education wants to get it back. Of course, if you'll excuse me, but in a rather funny way, I see the argument, which concerns universities which are not private, but which have started many times from regions or states when they were not states. The United States of America, up to the last example of Cyprus, which, of course, no one here has said that Cyprus acquired its first university in 1992 and the second and third university in 2002 or 2003 and the four private universities it has had since 2005. So this political and ideological battle will continue. The second is the environment. Excuse me, but here you say a great lie, that we have lost the opportunity to change Article 24 on climate crisis and change issues. Let me freshen your memory. Mr Tassoulas, who was then your rapporteur, rapporteur for the New Democracy, and for Article 24, says: 'If the majority does not collide,' we were the majority at that time, 'will not be sent to the next House for revision and, if we do not send to the next House Article 24, with the problems of its implementation and the suffocating deadlocks that are applied to the use of property which are badly considered forest, then we will block huge areas, not to protect forests, but to undermine economic activity, particularly in the agricultural and livestock sectors.'. "For the money you're doing everything." That's the truth. And how is that particularly justified? You know that. Environmental balance, i.e. I build a huge area and give to the mountains, the wild mountains, the corresponding, and forest is considered the extent, which, according to the findings of science, bears the distinctive characteristics from the day the Constitution of 1975 was published, etc. I mean, don't make fun of yourself. Go on, the Greek people are trying to make fun of him, but don't think you'll make fun of us too. Secondly, I would like to convince you all to vote for the constitutional review proposed by SYRIZA, because this constitutional revision we have proposed has an internal structure. The first part is the modernisation of things they need. In other words, the question of neutrality towards the Church - let religions be left out of our way - is very simple and understandable from around the world. No, we must be one, let me say, ecclesiastical state. Not a religious, ecclesiastical state, and so to function. Third, did the crisis teach us nothing? What was most hit in the crisis? Individual and social rights. Can we not decide that in a next crisis or, if you want, in the present situation, in the internal social crisis, there will be no man who will be powerless? There won't be a man who won't have water? Won't there be a man who doesn't have access to health? Won't there be a man who doesn't have access to education? For these simple things - I'll talk more specifically about them tomorrow - New Democracy says no. Minimum guaranteed social income. Laws will come, we know them, and there have also been such laws, which will keep social segregation, but they will basically keep the logic that in any crisis the majority of the people will pay it and in any non-crisis these individual rights for the lower classes will not be data. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] I shall close, Mr President, only by saying this. There is also the third axis, which ought to be the political system to protect the prestige and credibility of the civil society. There we go. We're way behind here. I shall speak only about Article 86 with one logic. Article 86 does not create moral problems. Article 86 is the immoral article within the existing system, and we need to find ways to change completely, because there are not three hundred precedents here. In other words - and the people on the other hand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u177	Will you abolish it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u178	I'm not far away, Mr. Delis, from that perception, I have to tell you. It doesn't give me any special problems. I think that's how we can move forward and we'll move on. The constitutional review that will take place in this direction will come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, too. I shall now give the floor to the Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis Athanasios. Here you go, Mr. Paphie, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u180	All parties that support and serve this system that we are living in, which is an unjust, barbaric, exploiting system - unless you prove to me that it is different and they are all equal in this society and everyone is paid for as much as they produce - all except the JRC, compete in the verb "The Review of the Urban Constitution". What Constitution and Revision? And what aspects are being reviewed? It is a constitution where the interests of the sovereign order are safeguarded. That's what everyone agrees. It's in the bourgeoisie. It's an urban constitution. It's capitalism, to say it like that, with a simpler language. So the interests of a handful, a small minority of wealth, a large majority of wealth, are being safeguarded - not to say elements, all of this is well known - which leads him out of the robbery and in many ways exploiting those producing it, the working class and the popular strata. This is the Constitution that everyone is defending and using expressions such as'short process', 'big debate', etc. We will see how much this is about the people! What else does this Constitution guarantee? It upholds the international alliances of this class that are in power, NATO and the European Union. And in NATO we entered with a choice of the bourgeoisie then, not to secure our borders because they never recognize NATO. Nor in Imia, Mr Scandalides, has he come out to make a statement or anything, but because he feels more secure in the same urban order within such an imperialist organization, as well as in the European Union. Why are we in? It wanted the world to enter the European Union that would live with golden spoons, which would become entrepreneurs, which would enter all markets, etc.Huh? No, because the order of authority here, there she felt safer and had a better field to serve her interests. These are also enshrined in the Constitution of the ruling class itself, which is objectively contrary to the interests of the people. Of course, it is well known what role these imperialist organisations play and I will say below. So what is being discussed in the Constitution Review process, always in all revisions, also has Moses' ten commandments. They're the bases of the system. These are never being revised and no matter how many proposals have been made - and they have been made by the JRC, we have no illusions that you will accept them - no one is speaking. None of the other parties! What are the foundations of the patenting of personal property in the means of production? There is provocative protection of local and foreign capital and safeguarding the Constitution, with 107, fifty-seven exemptions from logistics capital. Unbelievable and real! Fifty-seven tax exemptions, scratching on the seamen and workers! There are too many others, international agreements, protection of foreign investments. For L.1952, PASOK said he was a colonial, when he was at his youth, or rather when he started to become an adult. SYRIZA said the same thing. No one moves or dares to touch him! Of course, the safeguarding of the interests of the sovereign class is very clear in the Constitution, clearly formulated, while any 'rights' - within introductory terms - which have been won by workers with very hard struggles are proclaimed and have an endless task. For example, it is called "protected work", etc., etc. And in the end there is the words 'the law defines'. And the bourgeois governments come and say, for example, that the strike with '50% + 1' is allowed, so says SYRIZA and New Democracy talking about electronic voting. Mr Stylianides and you of the New Democracy, are you asking 50% to make a decision on the strike and rule with 23%, yes or no? You rule the country with 23% on the real voters and for a move you ask for '50%+1' on the part of the workers. Tell us, what government other than the first of Karamanlis had over 50% in Greece! And then he didn't, because he was abducted! This is the Constitution, tough, classic, ruthless toward workers and galantomus to big capital. Of course, he has a third side. The third side is that they are kept - and there is no one talking - and there is no security dispute. Article 48 speaks of emergency measures and says 'heads in it'. In the event of a crisis or anything else, meetings, events, everything! What are you afraid of? Are you afraid of war? Who's gonna fight? Those who have wealth in their hands? The workers will go back to the front line. They will defend the country's sovereign rights and this has proved historically and always, not to open up such debates now. So he also has safety-believes, good-bad, which say, "Take a cat" to ensure his stability. And here there is the separation of political forces within the House. Let the whole story of major conflicts stop now. They're friendly games within the same system. The parties here are divided into two categories. They are the ones who serve, defend and much worse create illusions to the people that with some proclamational interventions, etc. and without - to say something more - the power of the people's movement will be able to improve the Constitution. And don't tell us it's going to be socialist slowly. It will be a socialist constitution of capitalism! That's almost what Euclid Tsakalotus told us. So there are two political forces. There are those who defend this situation and try to throw ashes in the eyes of the people for allegedly justice and the JRC who are across the street. And despite the fighting - supposedly - convergence was fine with everyone. Looked like nine of them were found. But it's not just nine. It's the whole climate. What does the whole climate say? It says that we agree on two things in particular, namely the stability and the restoration of the lost price, not Katerina Bloom, but the urban political system that was injured. And really, aren't you telling me, apart from how this was expressed, was the Greek people that was squeezing the political system and the parties that ruled him? Is it possible for the other guy to take 1,500 euros and take him with 700 euros and the other one who has billions to give him more and say "thank you" and "thank you"? So what's he gonna do? What are you asking him to say, "slap me to sanctify and cut me and pieces"? These are the two objectives, then. Of course, let's say one more thing. There is now a great deal of experience - I will say again - that may not be expressed today. What happened to the crisis? There they were revealed, they became a political stripping of all parties except JRC. There came a government of New Democracy - PASOK. Never with the Right! Never! Yes, sir. It came out with both LAOS and DIMAR! And then the government of the "left" - within eight introductorys - of the Natali left, of capitalist, of SYRIZA, that is, with a right-wing party, Kammenos! What did he show, what does this experience show? It shows that the political forces that serve the system, regardless of individual differences that are smaller, when they see that it is in danger, are assembled together against the people. Because that's what happened. All the governments that formed have broken the Greek people. What did they want to achieve? Put the crisis on the workers, get the big guys out of here and pay nothing. And they didn't pay anything. And create conditions of hell for workers to recover their profits. And you have all made together an institutional framework called Memorandum, Memorandum Laws, and too much else, so that you can tie the world's wrists to it cannot claim for the next period. You've died of our investment, investors and entrepreneurship. Will all Greek businessmen become? Are you kidding us now? Behind entrepreneurship the huge interests of business groups are hidden. Don't tell me that in Greek workers and professionals are going to invest. So that's what happened with the crisis and they've been revealed. This must end the story of external pressures. Pull me up and let me cry. Didn't you choose the European Union over the years that you have praised it in the world? Don't you have lots of the International Monetary Fund? Do you not think the European Bank of Saints, which would be democratised and made popular, do you not think? That's what SYRIZA and PASOK used to say. What did you expect from the European Union in the outbreak of the crisis? To pay the workers or to break them to serve the interests of both European and Greek capital? Finally, stop this hypocrisy about external interventions. Don't you all vote for the instructions? Did you ever say no to anyone? Never! None of the parties that ruled. The rest you don't know? The control of budgets, the balanced budgets, the entire institutional framework that has been introduced by the euro yet? What do you do that you don't know about wages? What does point 17 say about the euro? That the wages of the European Union must be treated as those of the lowest in existence - see Bulgaria, Romania, etc. - and consider international competitors, China, Pakistan. And that's a lot of years ago. Don't you know that? So, what do you say you had external pressure? So, what were you waiting for? Solidarity internationalist by European capitalists and the dictatorship of capital? We'll talk about this in detail. I imagine this debate is not moving people. And that makes sense. What needs to be considered firstly, because the Constitution is being reviewed, secondly, who is serving the Review, and thirdly, what can the people expect from this Revision of the Constitution for life itself or even to create conditions to fight better. There's an experience here. What was the aim of all the revisions after 1975? They were aiming to ensure the stability of civil power and to capture the new needs of the system in a legal, constitutional form on the basis of developments. This has always been the case. Let everyone see the revisions. Then there was the entry into the European Union, EMU. Now we're supposed to have new developments. That's what's happening now. What serves all this disconnection to the election of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the House? It serves government stability. They don't want governments to change. And not just the governments. What is the final state serving? Mr. Giokas said so in the report. The formation of a staffing force that will not be affected by changes in government, but will be committed and believes in the inhumanity of this system. So even this with the President of the Republic, together with other provisions, is trying to close any crack can destabilise the system. So what does stability mean? Stability in the endless implementation of anti-population policy. That stability you want and go make sure. Of course for the people it is the opposite. The instability of the political system facilitates him to strengthen his struggles and to divert some conquests until he takes authority. So, one of these losers is the people. And from these provisions that appear to have no effect on his life. I come to the minimum guaranteed income. Great wisdom! Is this the world? We didn't understand. What is it? Askers and you throw them a scumbag? That's what you institutionalize. And the Constitution, too? Shouldn't the poor die? And even you make a memorial of foreign tide, because you take it from the poor and give it to the poorer. This has happened all these years. And that's what you want to institutionalise here. SYRIZA has a decent proposal. What does a decent living mean? How many are there? Is it 200 euros, 300 euros, 500 euros, 1,000 euros? What does it mean for a decent living today with the humiliation of the modern capitalist world, for the other one not to have electricity, for the water to be cut, for him not to have to eat, for his children to be sent to school, for them to be deadlocked, while the productive potential of society to be unbelievable? That's what we want, isn't it? Giving a scorch so that the world that produces wealth doesn't talk and has to claim it. Convergence and consensus, then. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Are we indifferent in the Revision of the Constitution? Oh, no. Firstly, we have no illusions. The constitutions of classes change with social revolutions throughout the history of mankind. That's law. And whoever denies him, he probably wants to go to Fuguyama for changing his theory. He says the story of capitalism is not over, no matter what forms it takes. We are not indifferent, nor are we expect the people to overthrow this Constitution and build their own constitution. We're making speeches, even though we don't have any delusions. We are trying, as far as possible, to create some cracks so that the popular movement can intervene better. We may be doing these interventions, but we do not accept this hypocrisy which is recorded in the Constitution and interpreted by the various laws. I was listening to Mr. Vitsa saying that higher education should not be merchandised. Postgraduate what is it? Isn't it a merchandise? People pay for it. You did it and New Democracy generalizes it. One gives each other all the money. In fact, many times, you're setting a ready goal on the line with this policy. Today with the care centres and all this is a serious person who believes education is free and that it is not commercialized? I would even say that it is commercially traded in all sectors. There's only one university thing left. I'm coming to health. What does the Constitution say? Do they all have the same opportunities in health? That is what we will see tomorrow in social rights. They're hypocritical, because that depends on everyone's money. Empty coverage is offered to workers, while others go where they want. There is one issue about sovereignty. I heard Mrs. Bakoyannis. We do not say that Greece is a dependent country. On the contrary. We say it's a link in the imperialist chain, so I can say it's more scientific. Greece is a developed capitalist country. No slavery is nothing. And he's a lizard in the imperialist chain. There's capital exports, he's involved in wars everywhere. It has the strongest urban class in the world's shipowners' sector. A country of 11 million citizens. The question of national independence is therefore outdated. They're just choices of urban order depending on the power it has in the imperialist chain itself.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u181	Please finish, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u182	I've reached the seventeen minutes? I didn't see it. I shall conclude with two words, Mr President. Article 27 states that without a law passed by an absolute majority a foreign military force is not acceptable. You've given five bases. With what law, Mr. Catrugale? Did you bring him? Oh, no. And so is the New Democracy, which is keeping them now. Why don't you accept that they won't come to Greece? Tell us a reason. We suggested it. Why did you say no? All of you. What do you want? To become a nuclear holocaust? And I'm ending up with a word about Mr. Varoufakis. And someone else said about the Soviet Union Constitution, that it was a terrible text, but it proved to be an empty shirt. Listen, Mr Varoufakis and Mr Papadimitriou: the Soviet Union has given so much to humanity, despite the weaknesses, the mistakes, the rabies war that it has taken. Some would be soap today if there were no Red Army - which today also language - which gave so much power to the peoples when they were there and everyone must respect. And when Mr. Varoufakis tells us it's been made an empty shirt, I'll let him. What's he suggesting? He suggests to the Urban Constitution some improvements, some beautiful words. We have heard wording about how capitalism can be done. Isn't that an empty shirt? What is it? What kind of hypocrisy is that? It's just a political confession that we're with this system. We're not done. We will return, and we will come back again victoriously, because socialism is the future of humanity. The story doesn't stop here. The century will be a century of revolution and then the first article of the Constitution that the people will make will say "the exploitation of man by man is abolished" and everyone decides who he goes and who he leaves.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u183	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jackri has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as early as 2013 it has been possible to launch the process of reviewing the current constitution, after the completion of the five-year period since the previous unsuccessful effort, as the New Democracy has not succeeded in creating appropriate consensus at that time. There is now a general belief that its review is pending as a historic matter in our state history for two decades, for two main reasons: firstly, because our institutional relationship with the European Union requires the constitutional review as a historical adjustment, since our Constitution has actually been drafted by a national state, which was then integrated into a supreme European institution that has even been subjected to enlargement and deepening. Secondly, because in recent years Greece has been tested by an extraordinary economic and financial crisis, which has troubled and agitated the citizens and has effectively tested the institutions and, therefore, the control of the institutions in the light of the crisis which it has experienced is a necessary political project. A Western democracy therefore finds its most genuine and true expression, the effective protection of individual and social rights, such as the right to work, to health, to education, to social security, to pay regardless of age, to decent living for all, but also to the democratic functioning of institutions and to the protection of democracy in itself. Why? Because the economic and social crisis has resulted in political extremism and a graphicization of politics and thus a complete depreciation of politics as a public function. In view of this situation, therefore, the 2019 review legislator in Greece should have as its main concern to raise the credibility, prestigiousness and price of the political system and this is an existential order of intervention for the proper functioning of the institutions. The political system has lost its contact with society and this can have dramatic consequences for the future of societies itself. The natural area, therefore, restoring the injured policy, the injured public space, is the Constitution, that is, the fundamental law which defines and organises the effective and democratic functioning of the institutions. This is where SYRIZA's proposal to introduce a ceiling for a total term of office as a self-just electoral block, which could, to some extent, hamper the creation of a political elite with professional characteristics, closed for the guilds and even at a time when politics needs those who do not need politics. I must note, of course, that the introduction of parliamentary immunity helps, but it is not enough on their own. The inner-party democracy must also be established in the parties. The proposal to abolish the immunity of the Member on the occasion and not in the performance of his duties, which has caused society so much and has given populists the pretext of slandering politics to democratic citizens. This is where our proposal for the revision of Article 86 of the Constitution on the responsibility of Ministers, which gave the sense, not unjustly, of unjustly penalising the ministers, always in relation to ordinary citizens and at the same time gave the impression that a protected pouch of corruption has been created for the ministers. Our proposal in Article 86 therefore abolishes the short deadline for extinguishing and introduces an interpretative provision according to which the special criminal procedure of that article falls within the offences of the Ministers in the course of their duties and not on the occasion of them. I cannot, of course, fail to observe that the majority of the New Democracy's minority party expressly refuses to add this interpretative provision to Article 86 without any obvious justification, since it is constitutionally incomprehensible to accept this provision without this interpretation, since that provision will be a receptive interpretation. All these proposals, ladies and gentlemen, which concern the political staff and the restoration of the credibility and prestige of the political system, must be seen in conjunction with the constitutional provision for the democratic completion of the parliamentary and therefore the electoral cycle, because they only guarantee the necessary modernisation and rationalisation of the political system as a whole. SYRIZA's proposal for the revision of Article 32 of the Constitution for the election of the President of the Republic, which has so far been an extortionist mechanism for early use in the polls, where the election of the President of the Republic was falsified as a state demand, while in fact it was a way of circumventing the four-year government service, aims, on the one hand, at avoiding the provocation of early elections for political purposes, on the other hand, to ensure the consensual election of the President of the Republic. The President of the Republic, of course, must be elected by a genuine parliamentary majority and not by a self-interested party. The proposal of the New Democracy for its election, not even by an absolute majority of the total number of Members, but by a short-term majority, degrades the President of the Republic from a symbol of the unity of the State, society and the political system, to a party leader, if it is possible for the President of the Republic to have one-party origin and one-party support. In the same direction, i.e. the completion of the parliamentary and electoral cycle, the proposals for revision, such as the motion of censure, should be proposed only when a successor situation has been ensured, so that there is no disruption in the parliamentary function and in the political order, as well as the constitutional provision for the establishment of a more proportional electoral system, which is a constant historical and timely demand of the progressive world in Greece and the West, since it guarantees the more representative political and electoral expression of society and, in particular, the creation of a political consensus culture on national life. There is also another major political issue, that of the participation of Greeks abroad in the electoral processes, that is, the participation of the complainant outside the borders of Greece, the Greek diaspora in the electoral process and its representation in the Greek Parliament with its own MPs. SYRIZA from the first term of office has opened up the question of the participation of Greeks abroad in internal elections, as part of this constitutional review, which neither New Democracy nor the KINAL in all its versions has ever given rise to a post-Macedonia, nor has the right to vote. Nor can I point out the need to revise Article 44(2) of the Constitution for the institution of the referendum and popular legislative initiatives, because they are both in the direction of strengthening and strengthening representative democracy and supplementing representative institutions for the better functioning of democracy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, because I have been following this morning how this debate is progressing, where the New Democracy has been accusing us of atmospheric and circumvention, overcoming this opportunity, I cannot fail to observe the pillowing and sloppiness facing the reform process and the neoliberal direction towards which it has proposed to lead our Constitution by proposing the inclusion of proposals for accounting content in the fundamental law of the state and its initial approach to reorientate the whole process of constitutional revision if the SYRIZA does not vote for the revision of Article 16 on the establishment of private universities, from which it subsequently retreats, for reasons of party feasibility, which demonstrates that the Communisation ignores the importance of the historic juncture that we are currently conducting and ends up with a manifest political uncomplicity and a lack of substantial moments in the most historically important part of the country, in fact, and in fact the most recent past. It's not the first time. As I said, the New Democracy consumed, it spent the previous review process of 2018 with pointless financial arrangements that had no impact, no benefit either in the political system or in society. However, I would like to conclude with a comment of a legal nature, which is both legal and legal. The process of completing the constitutional review in two stages has an interpretative one and only legal and political logic: to confirm genuinely and legally binding by two Vultures the historically configured revision will to amend the revised provisions with specific regulatory content. If the regulatory content and the review procedure are not specific, it is only about the number and titles of articles in the Constitution, it is obvious that the Proposed House should decide in one direction and the Review House to the other. This, however, is a legal absurdum, a legal absurdity, which is not constitutionally tolerable, as it exposes the political world and the review process itself, since for the same major constitutional issue, which was also raised in the citizens' judgement in the elections between the two Bulgarians, two opposite regulations appear to be proposed. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen - and I shall end with this - the vote that will take place next Monday obviously does not only concern the numerical titles of the proposed provisions to be revised, but mainly concerns their regulatory content and its regulatory direction. Otherwise, we are leading to the absurdity of the House proposing - I am using an example used by Mr Loverdos - paragraph 2 for the revision of Article 16, that is, for the development of religious conscience through education, and that the Revision House decides to revise paragraph 5 of Article 16. If this is not legal irrational, what else could it be? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-two students and students and two teachers from the 1st General School of Kilkis (Second Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Theanos Fotou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u186	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have said since this morning that the revision of the Constitution does not result in a vacuum, but at a specific historical juncture, and it obviously has to respond to the historical dilemmas, how much more so when the present, which has been designed with fresh experience of the collapse of the political and economic system of previous years, has led the Greek people to tough monitoring of the memorials and poverty, and the political system of deportation. So for us, for SYRIZA, it has two objectives: the deepening of democracy and the resurgence of neoliberalism. The first need arises after a decade of crisis where the political system has been discredited and the citizens have completely lost their trust in it. This relationship had, of course, already been shaken by the chronic pathogens of the client state, the two-partyism, the political family rule and the reproduction of folding relations at the top. It is now particularly mature in the consciousness of the Greek people that the need to guarantee society against phenomena that have haunted us for decades, some of them even since the birth of the newest Greek state. I am talking about familydom, the well-known political fireplaces, customer relations, the unequal treatment of ministers against the law enshrined in Article 86. Every generation of citizens is taught to have the backs of a political person, in order to have a chance in any relationship with the state, but also with the private sector, which is related to the state. The client-citizen relationship is structured through the rosé, political staff mediate the interests of the citizen in power in exchange for his or her political reproduction and survival, and political power acquits himself for the offences he commits in the performance of his or her duties. This is the vicious circle of Article 86 of the Constitution, which today consolidates the people's conviction that politicians are acquitting themselves of impunity. That is why his review is necessary and is of an emblematic nature. However, since today's majority refuses to vote for SYRIZA's interpretative declaration in Article 86, in order to prevent any crimes of Ministers being recorded, it undermines the central objective of the Review. So there is a great opportunity to review the constitution. The citizens will remain with their distrust and what that means and what it means. With regard to the second need, the resumption of neoliberalism: it is often repeated in this Chamber that constitutional revision is an opportunity for consultation and consensus. This does not mean covering up rival social interests, because the proposals on the Review are not politically neutral. It is indeed abundant that our differences in the issue of inequality are. When the Prime Minister says that inequalities are in the nature of man, he denies that the state must intervene to remove them both in terms of social and individual rights. For example, the abolition of all discrimination based on sex, race, religious belief and sexual orientation is included in all international human rights conventions and in Article 21 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Citizen. It is not possible under the state of right-wing, anachronistic viewpoints of a part of the New Democracy party that these rights should not be safeguarded constitutionally in Greece of the 21st century. A huge opportunity is being lost at this time in this constitutional review and I do not know when it will reappear. In these areas we see the New Democracy's proposals to substantially reflect the specific marriage of neoliberalism with extreme right-wing and to be a regression, even in what was included by New Democracy itself in the 2014 Review. In the same spirit, the New Democracy's stubborn refusal to secure the rights of citizens to a decent standard of living with a set of services and benefits for them is being moved. The Communist Party has also asked us before if it is our problem, let us say, an allowance and a height. It is not our problem, then, an allowance and a height of it. It is all social benefits and all social services: health, free children, energy and so on. This is therefore our difference with the New Democracy that wants to impose the minimum guaranteed income. Our difference is access to health, basic social goods such as water and energy, work and social security. All these proposals were voted against by the New Democracy and the Change Movement. It's in Article 21. A huge opportunity is being lost on this issue and we are now far behind what all the Member States in Europe have already discussed. However, there are also articles on which we are proud that we have not reviewed, and we consider them to be a great success, such as Article 16, which states that higher education is purely public. We are seeing all this time how important it is for the New Democracy, but also for KINAL the revision of Article 16. In Greece over the years, the Greek people have invested in the education of their children, which is why we have so many levels of university graduates for the benefit of the social majority. The New Democracy has attempted with all its powers to promote private universities, which is of great interest to the great business interests in the field of education. The rapporteur for the New Democracy this morning insisted very strongly on the gains that have been gained from the absence of private universities, an issue which we have all developed, but all the speakers of the New Democracy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Tell us why you want the private universities. To form children or to come money? For money, obviously, because higher education sees it as a large profitable market in education products. After all, that is why Mr Mitsotakis calls the students - he called them, now he's noticed - 'customers'. You have been telling the Greek people for so long that you want private universities to keep our children from leaving and foreign currency. Lie, because you remove thirty-seven university departments, the Law School of Patras, you want to block the entry of children to the top ten institutions, i.e. reduce the number of children entering public universities. Things are simple. Since you have not succeeded in establishing private universities through the revision of Article 16, you promote the project "less children in public universities, more customers for private colleges", whose degrees are equal to universities. In fact, you are bypassing Article 16, that is to say bypassing the constitutional check. Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Review is directly linked to the course of the Greek society for the next few decades. We all know that. From this it will be judged whether we will give a boost to society, with democracy, equality and solidarity, the tripartite which we have in our party, or will consent to stagnation, even to the backwardness of the democratic gains of the great majority of the Greek people for the benefit of the few and the strong. I believe that the House is not entitled to lose this opportunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u187	Thank you very much, Mrs Fotio. The President of Parliament, Mr Konstantinos Tsoulas, has the floor. Mr. President, how many minutes do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u188	Seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u189	Please, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, in spite of the objections, despite the unreserved reservations or criticisms, we are doing an important and rare parliamentary and legislative fact, which is the constitutional review, which, forty-five years since the establishment of the 1975 Constitution, has been essentially taking place for the third time, given the gliding content of the 2008 Review. We therefore have the third essential constitutional revision after that in 1985 and 2001. We have to think, ladies and gentlemen, that the constitutional history of our country is entitled to be regarded as privileged. The Greek world is linked to modernist constitutions. Already since the days of the Greek Revolution, the Constitution of Kings, the Constitution of 1797, with the hundreds of twenty-four articles, was a modern constitution, which provided for a single state to resolve this misunderstanding. It did not provide for a federal state, foresaw a single state and had incorporated all the posts and hopes of the Enlightenment at that time into its content. It was a liberal constitution and notice a wording. He called the people not "principal", as modern constitutions call it, but "imperial" people, Mr Scandalidis. The people were "the emperor of the people" according to the King's Constitution, which wanted to declare the strength of the representative system, but also the responsibility of the one who chooses his representatives. Then we had the constitutions of the 19th century. We have to admit that the donor Constitution, which established the Constitutional Monarchy of 1844, for its time - and not for our time, because we must judge them by their time - was an advanced constitution, despite its conservative character, because it has prevented the 'constitutional theory' by four years, as Meternich called it in 1848, which took place in most European countries, with a general uprising, which has caused great retreats of monarchy and great proliferations of the people's right to self-determination. Greece preceded four years of constitutional or liberal "theoremia", in the definition of Meternich, which swept through the European monarchies in France, Italy, Austria, in 1848. This is something that is credited for the constitutional tradition of our country and the constitutional tradition of our country has something to do with today, because we are stepping on it. We're not walking from zero. The next century, the 20th century, was the century that tested its constitutions and tested them, for they faced various crises. It is the century that we have had the two dictatorships and we have had too many political crises. It has been demonstrated by these crises that the Constitutions survive, but they are suffocating when they face divisions and severe political crises. Because the Constitutions, to breathe, need not only their texts, but they also need a spirit that is consistent with the consensus and minimum assumption of the rules of the game by all political parties involved. The 19th century, I forgot to say, was the time when the Constitutions preceded social reality. As Professor Nikolaos Alivizatos quite rightly says, it was the time when in the constitutional text one saw newness in a society that was still forward. The 21st century in which we live and the Constitution of which we prepare is the century with many questions. It is our duty, despite our disagreements and our reservations and our criticisms in one direction or another, to prepare a Constitution adapted as far as possible to the enormous needs and enormous liquidity of the 21st century, and that is why we will be judged later. The constitutional review, before which we are called upon to decide soon, is a revision that does not fulfil the ambitions for which it has been launched. As you can see, either with the eyes of the previous majority or with the eyes of the previous minority, the quantitative and qualitative ambitions of the Review are not fulfilled. However, the Constitutional Review contains provisions which are of interest, provisions which were called for to change, such as the reduction of the legal privileges of civil servants, political stability by subtracting the case of elections for non-election of the President of the Republic, which is now resolved, such as the strengthening of the social state by the change made to Article 21, and the provision of the minimum guaranteed income, such as facilitating the vote of the external Greeks and other provisions, which are not a fatal one, but selectively promoted for revision, and that will be a positive one from the debate we are having. I have to say, as the general rapporteur for the opposition officer of the parliament proposed, that the ambition of changing fifty-seven articles that had a threefold objective, namely establishing conditions of economic development, facilitating political regularity and establishing social solidarity, was not achieved in the area that we were ambitious, because the previous majority was indeed absolved this opportunity. However, even this small number of articles is capable, with appropriate legislative and government implementation then, of bearing fruit. Not to be constantly miserable and to say that it had no point in making this Review and that it would be preferable to cancel it and start again from scratch. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, what we have in our hands today is real and sure and it is up to us to raise it, while what we would start from scratch did not know would end up, not in this House, if we had turned it into a proposer, but in the next House, the Review, which would come after four years. The ambition of having a radical and massive constitutional review is gone. The responsibilities of this loss are specific. I am not renounced as rapporteur for the previous minority, to account for these responsibilities in the previous majority of SYRIZA. However, there has been an excellent job to say to the Review Committee, which recommends to us these changes that can also be made with other difficult, rare shocks, but which can happen within this five-day debate. So I am sure that we will continue with a positive constitutional tradition, with these eight or nine changes that will be made and which are properly applied, can lead to an improvement in the lives of the Greeks, to a better governmental stability and to a strengthening of the state's solidarity policy towards the financially weak. "It has a lot of atoms, of course, and unfortunately the Colony". "But is there what is human without imperfection? And anyway, here, we're pulling forward." That's what we're doing here today. It's worth moving forward. Obviously, things could be better, but I am sure that these changes that this House will bring, improve the constitutional text and contribute to helping the 2019 Constitution help the country move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u191	And we thank the President of Parliament. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor from the Change Movement and then Mr Kouvellas from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u192	After the great retreat of the President of the Parliament in the history of the Constitution and its revisions, he confirms that the ideas, but also the scriptures, were never missing. Where we've always suffered was the act. That is why we need to see with the real facts today the process of Revision of the Constitution, a '75 constitution that seems to have played an important role, but also in many respects it has reached its limits. And while all political forces agree on this, second thoughts, intentions in both phases of constitutional review by government to opposition with alternating roles of SYRIZA and New Democracy, they did not let things develop. The aim of a simpler and more operational constitution, based on the principles of freedom and strengthening the rule of law, and in particular the need to adapt to modern developments with emphasis on tackling the environmental and climate crisis, but also on the need to synchronise with the fourth industrial revolution, is probably not achieved with the current Review. So, after the 2001 Review and the 2007 'fuss', when New Democracy and Coalition burned the Review only by changing and abolishing the incompatibility of Members, we will hope for a new substantial review at the end of the next decade. The starting point of the review process was to take into account the fact that the Constitution does not only regulate the establishment and exercise of state power, but much more, the relationship between the State and society, the relationship between the state and the economy, the relationship between the Greek state and the European Union and the international community. In this sense, the Constitution after the review process should reflect new operational state balances, ensure full separation of powers, clearly illustrate that Greece is a modern European state, providing the necessary guarantees for the distinct roles of the State - Church, abolishing outdated or supposed privileges of policies, abolishing provisions that do not correspond to the present reality, establishing and protecting the right to common goods and ensuring and promoting the principles of open society, "democratising" administration and justice, addressing issues posed by the digitisation of society and the economy, as well as citizens' rights and obligations in the digital era, upgrade the functioning of the independent authorities, guarantees for the achievement of consensus and strengthen political stability, but without discounts in democracy. In particular, the negative impact of both the majority vote on the President of the Republic with a simple majority of fifty-one or even less than a hundred-five, with a relative majority, but also on the corresponding direction of regulating the selection of members of the independent authorities with a reduced majority of what is currently anticipated. The Group of the Change Movement has worked constructively and has tabled substantiated proposals that respond to these principles and are attempting to contribute creatively to the review process. In particular, we have proposed - and it will be included - that the reference to the prevailing religion, that is an interpretative statement, does not doubt the distinct role of State and Church and does not oppose Article 13, which provides and safeguards religious freedom. It is, of course, proposed to omission paragraph 3. We have proposed - and all political forces agree and come to constitutionalise a process that began in 2012, on the occasion of the crisis - to include the provision on a decent standard of living for all citizens, as well as the free and inclusive access of all to social goods. In Article 25, it is proposed that the State take actions to protect human rights and a fair distribution of the wealth produced in the modern environment of technological development and artificial intelligence applications. Unfortunately, these important phrases in a few words were not accepted and this is a significant delay. We have proposed, in Article 32, a different procedure for the election of the President of the Republic, which guarantees political stability, but does not make any discounts on democracy. Unfortunately, they were not accepted. In Rule 38 we proposed a procedure for the replacement of the Prime Minister. And she wasn't accepted. Article 54 proposes the addition of a paragraph to ensure that the exercise of the electoral right for voters outside the territory, in particular in the light of the ties with the country of law, determines further procedures. Look, there is a great contradiction here, and even with the number of hundreds of eighty who need to revise this article, because a hundred and fifty one I think took in the first phase of the Review, and the two hundred votes needed for this law each one. Here, therefore, issues have been raised, in my view, which will create huge problems in the future. The unprecedented constitutional right to vote cannot be confined to various ways and obstacles. I think we will also see this in the law, but unfortunately there is not a synthetic and consensual process that will be pushed forward. Unfortunately, it leads backwards and to the least denominator, not to the maximum possibilities we may have if we agreed on a promotional arrangement. There is, in Article 62, the proposal - in a different spirit from our own - for the institution of immunity solely for political actions, as the majority proposal says. We see it in a different way, that there is not at all and that the Member should be asked to substantiate, because he is in the context of his political activities. We have in Article 68 the proposal on the right of opposition to set up committees of inquiry. I think that is acceptable. I now come to a very important point concerning Article 73 and the proposal of the Change Movement that seems to be accepted, although in the first phase of the Review it did not reach the majority. From what Andreas Loverdes, our rapporteur, and the government majority, have informed me, after the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, debated, he accepts the proposal concerning the citizens' legislative initiative. This is very important, as long as it is kept at that level that its value really will not nullify it, it will not deceive it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u193	It was ours, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u194	It was ours first.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u195	You're prescribing both. You may be confused with times. It doesn't matter. The result is measured once consents exist. And we would hope that there would also be consensus on other issues. It would be desirable, because the Change Movement, having expressed its consistent opposition to the systematic attempt to reap the Constitution's Revisions, remains committed to the need to reach wider consensus on, of course, the institutional reforms that we have identified, the country needs. In this spirit, we come to this constitutional review. Despite lost opportunities, despite the impossibility of having a forward-looking, reviewing, reforming effort for the Constitution, we continue to table our proposals. So we will also be in the voting process and, of course, in the next few days that the sections on individual arrangements will be discussed. Just to say, unfortunately, the next Review will be many years later. So we better look at the wording of the provisions so that, at least, we do not have problems, such as precariousness - I do not know if it was uncertain - there can be a dead provision within our Constitution, which, of course, will be the subject of teaching. Someone said to me: "I did it so that the prescribers would have lessons to learn." I can't believe it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, too. Mr Couvelas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Article 28 of the French Declaration of Human Rights and Citizens reads that a generation cannot subjugate future generations by its laws. The people, however, always have the right to revise, to reform and - of course, the main - to amend their Constitution. The Revision of the Constitution is undoubtedly a top parliamentary procedure, perhaps the top parliamentary procedure. As a new Member, I do not hide from you that I feel honored and responsible for it, and I feel that all of us need to be measured and careful. Tops of populism and cheap disputes don't fit. They have been heard in this Chamber earlier by colleagues who I think are not in the spirit of this phase of the process of reform of the Constitution, that is, the final straight. After all, the Constitution must not be an institutional dreamer to whom we place our political fantasies in order to interpret them in a way favourable to us, for ours. On the contrary, it must be the state's institutional tool, as Kolettis called it in 1844. It is the good news of our political existence. He said at the time that the Constitution is about politics what the sacred Gospel about orthodomy is about. In this political gospel, contrary to the New Testament, we must be constantly ready to impose the necessary changes. The comprehensive proposal of the New Democracy for the Constitutional Review under discussion is based on the three principles, as Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis mentioned to them, at the beginning of this process. Principle One: The new Constitution must be simple, without anachronistic provisions, to ensure the continuity and effectiveness of the state, to separate powers, to strengthen Parliament and to shield justice, to establish accountability and to restore the value of the political system. The second principle is that the new constitution must guarantee the safe economic environment, the fiscal stability and development of the country, so that they can be established through it - and with its legislative production - mechanisms that prevent the country's budgetary derailment, mechanisms that are necessary, especially now, which, as all indicators show, Greece enters a new track of progress after about ten years of harsh crisis. Starting third: The new Constitution must ensure social solidarity and equal opportunities as a vehicle of social protection and a welfare treaty for all citizens, address the client arrhythmias of the state and strengthen civil society. No citizen should be or feel unprotected, but have the right to decent living, equal access to education, health and culture. I do not hide from you that I would like to see the persecution of ancient Athens guaranteed by constitutional law today. It is the aid of that time in ancient Athens, where the deportees covered their needs with the help of the state, Athens, not only the living needs, but also their entrance to the theatres. In the context of Athenian democracy, then, the most deprived were a right beyond their living needs, primary requirements, to meet both cultural and social needs, even before the modern state of welfare, modern constitutionalism, proof that fundamental rights are timeless, cross-border and independent, of course, political or other conditions. Ideally, then, the right to decent living, the right to a minimum of it and therefore, a minimum of income, is a fundamental individual right, in my view, resulting from Article 2(1) of the Human Rights Constitution itself. And it should be protected as such by the state. And, of course, economic cohesion even more shields the family as the basis of the nation. It is a parameter that has proved during the recent crisis in particular. It is the Greek family who kept our homeland standing while the state and its social policies, if not collapsed, were unable to support Greeks in wider social strata. But in future, the family will also be an antidote to demographics, which is perhaps evolving to the greatest of all our national problems. In order for the Constitutional Review to succeed - because some of the things mentioned in the Chamber in various respects were wishful, they were intentions at a previous stage, when we were still discussing in the previous House that proposed the procedure and the articles, which will come for a review in this House, in this House - it is absolutely essential to meet certain basic conditions which seem to be satisfactory today. Firstly, political stability within the country, a climate of fundamental consensus between the political parties and, of course, creative parliamentary conditions within the House. It is true that in the articles that we conclude up to debate there is a great deal of satisfactory convergence. So we need to heal, in our way, the decisions that we have taken following the debate on the days that come, at a stage, in a constitution that will heal various issues that are still open, such as, in particular, the lack of respect for effective discriminatory powers, the fact that the civil system and the client state have, unfortunately, rooted in the past many years in our country, the non-institutional continuity that a state which respects the rule of law must put as a priority. In conclusion, I will only focus on the missed opportunity to deal with Article 24 on the protection of the natural environment and Article 16 on the possibility of setting up non-governmental, non-profit universities. This opportunity left for the future. A decade more will be necessary not to say that the history of the future, of course, will judge us all. So, in the margins we have, let us not leave the opportunity to lose, because that is where we will now be accountable to future generations, to our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u198	And we thank Mr. Dimitris Kouvella of the New Democracy. Mr Constantine Scandalidis has the floor now from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u199	Ladies and gentlemen, my friend rapporteur of the New Democracy this morning called on us to consider this Review. I have tried, my friend Costa, to do so, and I will therefore try to rethink the development of democracy and the constitutional reform. I am not aware of any political party which has been speaking for twenty-five years now about the crisis in the political system, which has ultimately led to a political crisis that is broader and before the economic crisis, in a crisis in the institutions of democracy. This has made almost all the political leaders talk about the end of post-population, that is to say, of a new era that must be opened up in the institutional formation of democracy and, of course, the top institutional framework for the establishment of democracy is the country's constitutional charter. So it seems to me that for twenty years we have been saying this and two constitutional revisions that followed the 2002 Constitutional Review - which also had some gaps and could then solve some problems, even though they were a little early - were not able to answer this question. I believe that this is the responsibility of the political system itself, of the deadlocks and the pathogens it has created and which has failed to overcome throughout this historic period and should be an element of self-awareness of the political parties. I'll get an example. Tens of constitutional provisions suggested that both the New Democracy and SYRIZA should change in the debate that preceded the House. These provisions have resulted in the minimum common denominator. I will not judge the least common denominator, but I will say this. There was a debate on whether the parliament proposed is binding on the next and a lot of ink was spilled around this debate. I ask myself: When a Prime Minister makes programme statements and says that an urgent matter is constitutional review and the debate comes to Parliament as the last, in essence, a piece of legislation before the elections and the resignation of the government, why should this inequality and political management of the matter be the central event? The second example is the debate in the House, in the presence of the political leaders. In addition to confrontation and political controversy and personal confrontation, it has been used mainly in the future political developments, if the President of the Republic is the specific person who is today, Mr Pavlopoulou or who will be someone else, with questions from anyone else. I mean, from the outset, the constitutional review procedure with regard to its burden, its scope and its intention to agree on the political parties and the political system is undermined, to agree on this procedure. We were all talking about a new relationship which, in principle, safeguards the rights and a huge opportunity that we had. Huge rights are being smuggled, fathomized, with the top of the full deregulation of industrial relations. No protection shield thought anyone would put on them. The third generation of modern rights, which open the way for the next phase of the political life of the country. For example, the safeguarding of the electronic vote, which, beyond consultation, would be a measure that will be used in the future, not in the distant future, in the next few years, and yet before the next constitutional review that will be delayed for some decade. I cannot understand why we could not find a security net so that if a central state's power to self-government is decentralised, and the resources that decentralize it are not guaranteed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u200	We put it in and it didn't work.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u201	We've got it. It didn't work. Let's do it more specific, my friend Andreas. In other words, when we refuse to consent to a function that takes the political system out of the crisis and have the Constitutional Review and there we cannot find the common place that we will solve problems that we all accept - and each of our ideological viewpoints them as centrally - it is clear that we will exhaust the debate in the ideological debates. Even on the issue of fraud, which was a golden opportunity to have a direct constitutional arrangement - our rapporteur has tabled this proposal - and to be so general that the right to vote is not erroneous, we have finally reached a constitutional provision which can in practice not function, because the executive law can be affected by the application of this provision, because it is precisely the right to be completely wrong. A Greek citizen, who feels Greek, who lives wherever he is, must be facilitated by the earlier provision of the Constitution to vote, comes through a process where he says that while he can get the plane to vote, he cannot vote where he is, especially and not the other person next to the consulate. So, basically, the vote that the previous Constitution adopted so that we could use it in this Constitution, so that all Greek patriots who feel like citizens can vote in polls. Why am I saying all this? I am saying this to prove that there is more hypocrisy among us than opening channels of communication. It's not all ideological differences. They could be found in rights such as the environment or even the subject of education, gold sectors, which ensures both the other and the ideological aspect. We didn't dare. Because it is not only the economic use of existing land and is likely to be declassified from forest land. It is the ability of local communities to determine what is really a forest and what pork and not to lose one's property. This is not an economic exploitation. This, on the contrary, can protect the forest. But to find a device that can deliver this accurately and have those diagrams that protect its application. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we are behind developments. We are talking, for example, about the confrontation between representative democracy and direct democracy. One side, Conservative, says that direct democracy effectively undermines representative democracy and that representative democracy is enough. The other side says that the result of a referendum should be mandatory. The social consultation institutions, the institutions that give direct democracy a genuinely participatory nature and the separation of these issues that could be made compulsory by the people's basis - such as the legislative initiative - and the others that will consult, could allow for a more complex formulation and cover this process. We did not do this in the debate we are having on the constitutional review. We stayed in our seats. So as long as we stand up for two positions in this way, it would seem right for Palis to say that there are many parties, but two politicians. I believe that there are many political and many areas of agreement and many areas of radical and re-examination. It would be the one that would give a new trigger to the Fourth Hellenic Republic that needed changes in the constitutional type and not just those few that we eventually did. That is why I fully agree with our rapporteur's original proposal that it would be advisable to withdraw it and bring in a new procedure from the start.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u202	Thank you very much Mr. Scandalides. Mr Dionysios Akuppis from the New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u203	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech I should like to say something that I note at the last plenary sessions. I see this phenomenon by SYRIZA colleagues in particular: at a time when a number of colleagues may be outside the Chamber and where there may be five or six more than their own parliamentary group, they may mention the needs of the television show 'where are the Members of the New Democracy'? I think we're not playing the role of a repute here. We need to show a little seriousness and leave this aside and deal with more important issues. The constitutional review process is a leading moment in the culture. That is why I believe that this House should do its utmost to meet the demands of this mission with ethos, seriousness and respect first of all for the electorate. The new parliament, after all, had a clear mandate from the Greek people to proceed to the work of the Constitutional Review. The Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, is a sacred text that lays down the fundamental conditions of our political coexistence, the organization of the state, the culture and the protection of our fundamental rights. So, with the classical conception of a constitution, it is a text that is generally time-consuming, with few and very specific orders, a text that is strict and stiff, which is not influenced by the political context in question, since it bears an authentic substance, that of historical time. So the Constitutional Review requires time and thought. That is why when this very specific process of constitutional revision begins, in accordance with the provision of Article 110 of the Constitution, we should be extremely careful to ensure that, in the context of constructive conflicts - which will certainly exist - we are seeking to find common sites. Of course, the notion of consensus has been unknown to the opposition, since, in the context of the House that has come to pass, ideological stiffness has prevented you from moving towards the amendment of Article 16, so that today our country will have at least non-state, non-profit universities, as they exist throughout the civilised world. It has been heard before that either we want the currency or education not to go away. I don't understand. Why shouldn't both be? Why should one of the two apply? As for the logic that thirty-four universities were closed and that it did not work, I believe that this was because nothing had been planned for their operation, because it was an election firework. And it was precisely the ideological nuisances of counter-population that did not allow the question of combating climate change to be included in Article 24 of the Constitution, as well as arrangements concerning the adaptation and protection of society from the effects of the phenomenon. So I firmly believe that only through the pursuit of agreements and consensus will the Constitution be avoided as an opportunity for political controversy. Only in this way will we ensure that the text of the country's foundation is shaped perfectly. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Review should not take a reassurance solely because some seek to prove that they are supposedly left-wing and progressive. For example, the religious freedom that has been spoken about so much by the Opposition has been run by the Greek Constitution, and this is first of all the constitution itself, according to the prevailing interpretation of Articles 3 and 13. These provisions guarantee religious freedom as an individual right. Furthermore, it is worth noting that religious freedom is guaranteed by the requirements and texts of Union law. Today's review comes just ten years after the economic crisis, a deep period of economic, political and also appalling recession, a period that has put the country's institutional foundations under serious risk. So the spirit, which is clearly in the hands of the present and under discussion a draft Constitutional Review, is a spirit of renewal and return to political normality. Even in the context of the broad economic, social and political destabilisation caused by the crisis, the main axes of this constitutional review are economic stability and the development perspective. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been talk of the extent of the mandate for the revision of the House. In my opinion, things are simple. The mandate of the parliament revoking shall be limited to specifying in particular the revised provisions. In the context of the first revision phase, the Preparatory Parliament had to establish the need to revise certain constitutional provisions. This need, of course, had to be justified. However, this does not mean, under any circumstances, that the evaluations accompanying this statement are binding on the Review House and in such a way as to restrict the content of the revised provisions. For example, the Preparatory House identified the need to revise Article 32 of the Constitution for the election of the President of the Republic. The reasoning for the need to revise is clear that there is a need to separate the election of the President of the Republic and the dissolution of the House. From that point on, any direction or assessment included in the statement of reasons does not in any way bind the Review House. On the other hand, the Review House may freely define the content of the revised provisions. With this we can respond to the reasoning that has already been made on the question of Article 24, that, although it has been stated that it may have been wrong to say that the reasoning in the previous House might have been wrong - it should be discussed in this House on any grounds, so that we can ultimately be able to ensure that the environment is protected. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that we have a democratic and progressive draft of Constitutional Review in our hands, despite the fact that there was no revision of the articles that we have before us. This objective is not only the deepening and widening of democracy. Although opposition accuses us of the opposite, the result justifies us. After all, overthrowing the immunity of MPs and ministers, but also disconnecting the election of the President of the Republic from the parliamentary elections, are only a few of the amendments proving the government's orientation in an essentially democratic rule of law. Welcoming, therefore, the work of the Review Committee that has done this review project, I would like to stress the greatest importance from now on in the process, as it is extremely important to focus Parliament's consultations not on micro-political issues, but on issues of substance, as our responsibility as a subjective constitutional reason is laid down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u204	And we thank Mr. Cappi. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that the Ministers for Justice, Finance, Education and Religious Affairs and Home Affairs have today tabled a draft law: 'Measure in civil and commercial matters - Further harmonisation of Greek legislation with the provisions of Directive 2008/52/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2008'. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Mr Christos Dermentzopoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u205	Ladies and gentlemen, the revision of the Constitution is one of the most important functions performed by the House. The fact that the Greek Constitution is considered one of the most stringent in Europe in its Revision makes it a huge advantage of a Member's membership. It must be understood to all of us that the process of revision itself has a strong historical and political character, as it comes to a constant effort to balance two conflicting needs: the need to adapt constitutional arrangements to a constantly changing socio-political environment and the need to maintain an irreversible regulatory core. This particularly demanding process also operates as a special mirror of quality evaluation of the country's political system. Demonstrates whether or not political parties are able to get rid of micropolitical approaches and ideological strangles in order to obtain appropriate consents that will bring about the necessary changes in the constitution's Charter. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, this review process has been significantly mutilated due to the proverbiality shown by the majority of the previous parliament. SYRIZA did not take over the Revision of the Constitution as an opportunity to substantially upgrade our constitution. On the contrary, he faced it with a glance at his forthcoming election defeat. That is why his review proposals find anachronism, idealism and complete indifference to the historical and social reality of Greece. SYRIZA in the previous parliamentary term approached the proposals for the revision tabled by both the New Democracy and the other opposition parties, with narrow party and ideological criteria and without the constitutional disposition required for consent. The most characteristic example of this trend was the refusal to include Article 16 in the articles to be revised. Maintaining the state monopoly in higher education, the previous parliamentary majority deprived Greece of the opportunity to develop into an international educational centre which, by exploiting our comparative advantages in education and culture, could make a significant contribution to boosting GDP. At the same time, he turned the back on thousands of remarkable Greek scientists abroad who, through the establishment of private universities, could have a realistic chance of repatriation, while at the same time challenging the retreat of new Greek students to the universities of Europe and America. The same logic was followed by the rejection of the revision of Article 24, thereby depriving our country of the possibility of creating an effective environmental policy, which is part of the modern context and, at the same time, fully in line with the challenges we face today. Under the already shaped narrow margins, the current Revision House has an obligation to proceed to a Review which, as far as possible, will release the creative forces of the country and strengthen the quality and effectiveness of our democratic culture. The seven key points proposed by the Revision Committee are indeed curing yesterday's pathogens, they respond to today's needs and they create optimism for the future. More specifically, on a proposal from the New Democracy, the incorporation in Article 21 of the Constitution of a minimum guaranteed income system demonstrates the social sensitivity of our prolongation and the intention of the Greek state to effectively protect its weakest members. The intervention in Article 64 of the Constitution towards giving the right to a committee of inquiry and the opposition parties is a very important institutional change of long-term breath, not only because it protects the parliamentary minority, but mainly strengthens the control role of the national Parliament. A key point is the separation of Article 32 of the Constitution of the election of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the Parliament and the proclamation of parliamentary elections. This is a change that prevents the highest rule from being elected to work and is a guarantee of political stability. Facilitating the election of the independent authorities, by amending Article 101 and by establishing a 3/5 majority instead of 4/5 required to date, is another important intervention that ensures the immediate management of the independent authorities and the effective completion of their work, including the supervision and regulation of vital and sensitive areas of political, economic and social life in general. The change in Article 96(5) in relation to the equalisation of military judges with other judges strengthens the independence of military justice, removing it from the obsolete logic of the courts. A special reference should also be made to the constitutional safeguard provided for in Article 54(4) in order to facilitate the vote of Greeks abroad so that Parliament can express the wishes of the entire Greek nation regardless of whether they are within or outside the borders of the Greek state. Finally, it is also of paramount importance to intervene in Article 62 of the Constitution by limiting the immunity of the Member only in the performance of his duties, as well as the abolition of Article 86(3) of the Constitution, the amortisation period, thus including the offences of the Ministers in the normal procedure of limitation applicable to all Greek citizens. This amendment is legally correct, as it aligns itself with a strongly shaped concept both of society and of the legal world on this matter. Ladies and gentlemen, with a milestone in 2021 and the completion of two hundred years since the beginning of the Greek Revolution, the Constitutional Review had to change more. It should mark the maturity of our democracy and the passage of the country from the time of the crisis to growth and prosperity. However, despite the narrow contexts in which it is conducted, one might argue that significant institutional changes are achieved that will lead to a better and more effective functioning of our culture in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u206	Thank you very much. Mr Stamenitis Dionysios has the floor from New Democracy and then Mr Drasakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u207	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have chosen today to place myself in the debate on the constitutional review, because I consider it appropriate to refer to the country's lost opportunity and to the failure to revise Article 16 of the Constitution, which would pave the way for the establishment of non-state institutions. Unfortunately, in the debate prior to the review process, ideological nuisances and obsolete perceptions have once again entered above the national interest. Greece will therefore continue to be the only exception to the rule of being the only country in which, under the Constitution, the legislature will not have the freedom to legislate in a way that responds and serves the educational needs of the country. What are we missing from this development, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? Let's not be fooled. We're only losing. Firstly, higher education remains detached from the country's society and the country's real needs. Secondly, it favours the Brain Drain students and teachers, thus losing valuable human resources that it resorts to abroad. Thirdly, students and researchers from abroad are not attracted and a huge opportunity is not exploited that would bring the country significant economic benefits. Fourthly, perhaps the paradox, in Greece, is recognized - and rightly so - the degrees acquired abroad by non-State university institutions, but the establishment and operation of non-State universities is prohibited here. So what do we say to thousands of young people and young people and their families? Go out, spend a fortune, get a degree, come to recognize it in Greece and then go out to the labour market, because very simply we, Greece cannot offer you the option offered by all the other countries, that is, we deprive the Greeks of the choice. So who gives us that right? We conclude, therefore, that in a world that is changing rapidly and is already moving into the digital environment, which is preparing to enter the era of artificial intelligence, we in the most important area of public spheres, that of education, remain stricken yesterday. To say here that the New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis have tried with all the means provided by parliamentary procedures, but also by exhausting the issue of public dialogue, to convince the dissidents and finally to put education and development above their own party interests in the country. For those who have rushed to present themselves as patrons of public higher education, to say that consensus on the revision of Article 16 would not hurt public education. Let them no longer hide behind the arguments put forward by reality itself. Of course, no one disagrees and we owe as a state to guarantee and ensure the quality of public higher education for all and without discrimination. However, the question remains is why this should act as a deterrent mechanism for private, non-state universities. Why should public and non-State be treated as opposite poles when in all the other countries they act as sharing containers? Ladies and gentlemen, the opportunity has been lost, but we must not assume that the debate is now over on the lost opportunity and that it will be opened again in ten years. The debate, preparation, information on the revision of this article must remain alive and be one of the most important objectives, because it makes no sense to speak of a lost opportunity, if we do not pursue a comprehensive debate on how to make use of the next opportunity as soon as it appears. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that the review which is being carried out today clearly does not cover the range of all the provisions to be revised. It's not the best possible one, we all know it. It is not just Article 16, but it is also Article 24, which is not being reviewed, and so the way to conduct a more modern environmental policy, which will be harmonized to the challenges we face, cannot be done. However, positive steps are being taken, such as, for example, the disconnection of the election of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the House, so that it will cease to be an extortion mechanism mentioned by his previous colleague SYRIZA, forgetting, of course, that this was done by SYRIZA and that we all get to know their delusion in 2015 or Article 86 on limiting the privileged arrangements for the criminal responsibilities of the ministers. In this context, a broad consensus in the Review will be the first step in the attempt to upgrade our political culture. Let us go ahead, as the President of Parliament has just said, and that is above all the need for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, too. Mr. Ioannis Drasakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u209	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the 1975 Constitution was shaped in conditions in which it was still in force, I would say, the so-called Kenyan policy model, and it was also a period when the demand for democratisation and social justice was strong as a result of the struggles against dictatorship. The Constitution of 1975, under the influence of these and other actors, however, has shaped, in a general and incomplete way, a framework for economic and social policy which ensured social cohesion and environmental protection, which is why it gained social legitimacy and endured time. But three developments today show not only the limits of the Constitution, but also the perceptions and beliefs which have prevailed in our society over the past decades. The first development was, as has already been rightly recognised by many speakers from all sides of the House, the crisis, bankruptcy, the victim of which was the Constitution. Obviously, it is not the Constitution that is responsible for the serious social consequences of income, living standards, employment, etc. But these consequences, the extent they have taken, indicate the need for stronger shields for the future. Many proposals from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group therefore serve precisely this objective, namely the stronger shield against future crises, in terms of protecting labour and labour rights, the protection of public goods such as water, energy and ensuring access to them by all citizens and other provisions of the same logic. The second development that modifies our perceptions of growth, progress, sustainability and prosperity is climate change and the multiple consequences, not only in the economy, but also in life itself. Finally, the likely consequences, which are expected to be extensive from the fourth industrial revolution, in particular from the applications of robotic and artificial intelligence at work and rights, require new approaches and regulations aimed at widening democracy and preventing a new explosion of social and regional inequalities and discrimination. These developments bring new needs to the forefront that go beyond the controversy of the past, because they form a new treaty that goes beyond both the neoliberal and the Kenyan model in its traditional form. The new requirements require that we rethink and redefine the concept and criteria of progress, growth, sustainability and prosperity. For example, it is completely anachronistic to listen to the Greek Prime Minister today and a lot of the New Democracy Members talking about growth and simply mean growth of the economy when this growth has been brought to a crisis. We need in the new circumstances by a constitution that will guarantee, not the growth we have been saying before, but sustainable, sustainable growth, prosperity for all in an environment of equality and freedom. The proposals of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group are governed by these principles and are driven by this need and are aimed at creating a new model of sustainable and fair development. This is not only about the Constitution, but also about the policy in place, it is about the development strategy which the previous government has set up despite the difficult circumstances. The proposals of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, as well as the New Democracy Government's policy, are heading in the opposite direction. They are characterized by measures and overturns that favour the development of unconscious capitalism, which will not be long enough to show its consequences, as in Argentina, as in Chile, which in studies of the World Bank was described until recently as a "standard" to follow other countries, which have chosen the path of neoliberal immunity. So the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Katrugalos, is right, who spoke of a regressiveity and what is now in Europe, but also of the former positions of the New Democracy. For example, Article 16, which is so much to say. The wording that we have before us today is no longer about non-profit-making or non-state universities, as it has said in the past. The wording refers to private investment in the field of education, whether an wind park you want to make, a ship you can put on coastlines, or another investment you can make in the area of education as if it were a common industry of economic activity, where the dividing lines and the discrimination between speculative and non-profit activities are erased, between goods and public goods. However, where the New Democracy is trying to take some steps, these are half and in many cases self-determination. For example, Article 86. After a long delay, the New Democracy recognised that this article created an impunity regime. At the same time, however, which accepts the abolition of this regime, it introduces into the banking sector an equivalent impunity regime, which I must tell you will create huge problems, which we will see not too late. Here too, there was a dialogue, if the government wished to find a regulation, where the excesses, which the bankers say are being made, or even other problems, but the immunity regime introduced by the change in the Criminal Code, will have many consequences. Another example is the constitutional guarantee of the state's obligation to provide what the New Democracy proposal calls a minimum guaranteed income. Because I have heard here a number of new Members of the New Democracy doing social-sensitivity lessons, you will allow me to inform you of some facts that you may be ignoring. This proposal was made by the coalition at the time of the Left and Progress in the 2001 constitutional reform. The then President, Mr Constantopoulos, on 20-3-2001, in his interview, presented the proposal of the coalition then to introduce this measure against which both PASOK, which was government at the time, and of the New Democracy, had a negative position. I must also point out to you that in 2005 on behalf of the then SYRIZA Parliamentary Group I had the honour of presenting here a proposal for a law establishing the minimum guaranteed income. I must tell you that both the PASOK and the New Democracy rejected the proposal. Even now that you are coming so late, without having the political courage to acknowledge that others have been struggling for them and other measures for years, if not decades, what you have introduced is the concept of income. But it is not just an income, it is the limit, the level of living, which we must guarantee. Imagine someone who gets the minimum guaranteed income, as you say, but does not have access to health services or other critical services. This will be a gift of free. Therefore, in this step you are taking, which one might say is positive, the way in which you enter it is completely restrictive and does not guarantee what we need to safeguard, that is, a level of life that corresponds to the needs of our time. To conclude, therefore, regardless of the dimensions of this Review, which could be much wider, if the New Democracy did not present any measures that cannot be accepted by the other political forces and not only by SYRIZA, or if the New Democracy did not reject SYRIZA and other parties' proposals, what I would like to stress is that the attitude today towards the new sustainability and prosperity requirements, the attitude towards inequalities and discrimination, is those which constitute the new framework for the development of social struggles, the new framework for conflicts and conflicts between the political forces, is the ground on which the new dividing lines are formed. And the debate on the constitutional review, among other things, has had this positive one, that it also shows in this field that there is a progressive and conservative regressive direction in terms of the revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u210	Thank you. Mr Vassiliou - Peter Spanakis from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u211	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, dear rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Javarra, today we are debating the constitutional revision principle, namely the basic law of the state. The Revision of the Constitution is in any case the top parliamentary procedure and I consider myself to be very lucky to be involved in the work of this parliamentary term. The Constitutional Review will regulate a number of issues relating to family protection, marriage, maternity and childhood. In Article 21, it is proposed to add the paragraph which stipulates that the State ensures a decent living for all citizens through a minimum guaranteed income system. It will also protect work, clearly specifying that all workers, regardless of sex or other discrimination, have the right to equal pay for work of equal value. It will also change the way in which the committees of inquiry are set up, Rule 68, so that the decision is taken by a majority of the Members present, which may not be less than 2/5 of all Members, on a proposal from 1/5 of the total number of Members. The House will be able, in other words, to set up two committees of inquiry per parliamentary term, provided that the proposal is made by ten Members and is voted for by 2/5 of all Members, irrespective of the majority. It will facilitate the emergence of the independent authorities in accordance with Article 101a. The aim of the government, however, is to reach a broad consensus of the political forces in order for our country to have a modern constitution, a constitution that corrects the bad texts of our political system, strengthens the effectiveness of our state and stimulates citizens' confidence in institutions. Already, since 2016, Kyriakos Mitsotakis as President of the New Democracy had presented a radical path, which would lead us to the full modernisation of the charter, an modernisation based on the three-way "democratic discussion, scientific documentation and popular acceptance". Then the New Democracy had worked out and proposed concrete changes to fifty - seven articles from the one hundred - twenty of today’s constitution. Unfortunately, our bold proposal to Mr Tsipras "vote our own proposals, vote yours" has never been accepted by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Thus, we have lost the opportunity to discuss the amendment of Article 16, which would allow non-state universities to be set up in our country, the revision of Article 24 with absolute respect for the environment, in order to harmonise the provisions with initiatives to tackle climate change. Through the Constitutional Review under discussion, our government proposes to disconnect the election of the President of the Republic from the early dissolution of the House. The government's proposal is to have three initial votes. The first and second, with two hundred MPs, the third, one hundred and eighty Members, and if the third is not elected President, five days later, the President will be elected by a majority of fifty-one votes, namely an absolute majority of the total number of Members. Revision of Article 86 on the responsibility of Ministers. To abolish, at last, the short delay in the cancellation of offences by members of the government and to equate to the time laid down in the Criminal Code for all citizens. SYRIZA continues to do what he did as a government. For communication reasons it insists on a meaningless interpretation proposal which provides for retroactive effect on the change of the article in question. For the New Democracy this has no legal status, since provisions concerning criminal offences concern only future and not past acts and would therefore not be accepted in any Greek or European court. But the way to the constitution for the vote of Greeks abroad opens, in accordance with Article 54, which we all agree. They have the right to vote from their place of residence. However, it remains to be seen how this will be done and under what conditions. The government's proposal is that there should be conditions for the exercise of the electoral right in their place of residence by elections outside the territory, such as the holding of a tax number, the absence of a country or presence in the country for a certain period of time in the past. It may also be laid down that certain positions of each party's predominant ballot are necessarily taken up by the Greek dispersion and that one or more constituencies from the Greek Democratic Republic are established. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot to be said about the constitutional review and the change in the provision of Article 37 on State-Church relations. The cultural tradition of our country, our constitutional tradition, the Constitution of Epidaurus of 1822, all show us the way. State-Church relations are inextricably tied up and this matter does not have any further discussion, which poses serious risks. But let me say that today's debate is based, it must lay the foundations for the next constitutional review, which - if you like - must have the political, economic and social stability, which is based on social justice, because you know, ladies and gentlemen, such expressions as'social justice' is not a left-wing property, it is not a monopoly on the left, but it is a claim for the Greek people and it comes out of a series of measures, processes and attitudes. That is why, Mr President, let me say, as a new Member of the Greek Parliament, that in the next constitutional review, provision must be made for laws which have an increased majority not to be amended for a long time, for the tax laws which have to be applied to households and businesses, by introducing tax incentives and tax reliefs, but also for the investment, to be subject to stability in entrepreneurship and the labour market too. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance for two minutes. I also propose that the revision procedure should take place before five years for the provisions that have not been changed. So today we are starting the top parliamentary reform process of the Constitution and, at the same time, we are at a crossroads of perception, on the one hand, of the revision of specific articles that go to the front and on the other hand of the other revision that is going to come and must have a certain logic, the logic of stability, consistency and social justice. I have heard - and here I am closing - the rapporteur for the SYRIZA parade, Mr Katrugalos, say that the constitutional review promoted by the current government will not adopt a net of positive proposals from the SYRIZA and that the choices of this constitutional review reflect the legislative initiatives of this government. And I answer you, Mr. Catrugale. Is the regulation of old debts in the new standard arrangement prepared by the government with the second tax bill, the reduction of HNVIA by 22% that came with the first tax bill, the final state that came in the summer, the development law, the defence of academic freedoms, the strengthening of full employment, finally find you in agreement or not? And finally, raise your stand and tell the Greek people the truth, even now that you are in Anti-Population! Tell us what your position is after all. You are talking about kneeling the pensioners, who have not respected the work they have done and the insurance contributions they paid in the past! This law - an abortion - reflects the legislative initiatives, Mr Katrugale, and you say that this constitutional review that brings in areas reflects the legislative initiatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u212	Oh, no. Conversely, I said, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u213	No, gentlemen! That's it! That is why I call on all of Parliament's wings to vote in favour of this constitutional review. In conclusion, let me turn to the words of our rapporteur, the experienced parliamentarian, Mr Javarra, who said that it is important to have a balanced new constitution, as well as to serve its purpose. That is why we are all here to serve the purpose of the new constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, too. Mr Vassiliou Vassiliou has the floor from New Democracy and we will be closing with Mrs Iatridis, Mr Kella and Mrs Agerinopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to say that it is my honour to participate in this top parliamentary procedure. I am a newly elected MEP in a Review House, which is very different from the previous Proposing House. In particular, the first elected and newly elected MPs of the current period add up to fifty - six, more than half of this House. This means that both I and most colleagues have not expressed themselves in the revised articles. On this issue, therefore, I must say that I would like to talk today about the revision of a greater part of the Constitution. In my opinion, there are articles covering issues that we should modernise, such as Article 16 on higher education or Article 24 on environmental protection. Both of these issues will concern us directly and will concern us in the future. It would therefore be good to have the opportunity to shape the Constitution so that we can meet the challenges of caradokun. But let's leave what's missing from the Review and see what we have in front of us. Ladies and gentlemen, in my view, we have a rare opportunity in front of us to reach a consensus. The Proposing and Revision House had different parliamentary majorities and all four hundred and fifty-six individual MPs. This pluralism gives the process of broad acceptance by the political system, which the Greek people want, as we all know, because we are constantly listening to it in our contact with the citizens of our region. The President of the Committee on Revision, Mr Stylianides, has already referred to the very good climate in the work of the committee. I really think we can agree at the outset in this Review and let me focus on three fundamental changes that this includes. The first point that I think we can converge is Article 21(1). With its revision and the introduction of the right to the minimum guaranteed income, the Greek family who have suffered so much in the years of the crisis will ensure a level of living that will create the conditions that will allow social mobility. And we do this, without creating distortions in market freedom, but by introducing the principle of a social market economy. Those who come from the region know how important this is for the Greek household and its inclusion in the Constitution really protects our most vulnerable fellow citizens. The second point on which I think there is room for convergence is Article 54. The facilitation of the exercise of the electoral right to Greeks abroad was a pre-election commitment of the New Democracy. At the same time, the proposal enjoys broad acceptance for all Greek citizens both internally and abroad. Here too, the final proposal could perhaps be better. However, we must recognise the effort made by the government, and also the whole of the parties, to have a framework as broadly as possible. This will also be seen in the vote on the relevant draft law that has already been tabled in the House. Ladies and gentlemen, in the next elections, whenever they are held, they will be able to vote several of our fellow citizens who have so far been practically impossible. And that's something I'm sure we all want. The third point to which I believe we can reach a broad consensus is Article 68(2). The revision of this article enables the parliamentary minority to ask for committees of inquiry to be consulted every two years. There is a proposal from at least ten opposition MPs present in the presence of a hundred twenty Members. The parliamentary control tool is greatly upgraded by this provision. Minority rights are being strengthened and, therefore, parliamentarianism in general, but democracy itself is being strengthened. For these reasons, and with complete awareness of the gravity of the procedure in which I am involved, I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to support the present revision of the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u216	Thank you very much, Mr Vasiliadis. Mrs Iatridis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u217	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are starting in plenary today the fourth revision of the Constitution, a constitution which was passed immediately after the restoration of democracy in 1975. I believe that we should not forget the great national offer of Constantine Karamanlis, the man who led the country to the New Democracy of Postmoplasty, and who, in the light of the then political, social and economic conditions, handed over the most essential, the most democratic, the most modern and resilient constitution in the history of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the Revision of the Constitution obviously needs to be heard in legal procedures, but it is on the basis of deep political, deeply social. The Constitution is the fundamental law of our state which includes all those vital provisions for the survival of our state, our society and our nation. Therefore such a review should have been another opportunity for our Constitution to continue to meet the current needs of our society. Our Constitution, of course, has met the needs of society so far. It is, after all, what it has characterised all these years. And as Mr Stylianides said in committee, it is a constitution that is strict, but at the same time open. So this Review could be even more substantial, even more innovative, even closer to the needs of the Greeks and Greeks, as our rapporteur, Mr Javaras, pointed out. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Committee on the Revision of the Constitution there has been an extensive debate on the role of the parliament proposed and on the role of the current Review House. In other words, the current parliament is bound by the proposals of the proposed parliament. I believe that the whole process gives us very important lessons. The first is that we should definitely reject as a political system the logic that the Constitutional Review can be a tool to promote our political agenda, our ideas and our convictions. On the contrary, we must see our Constitution as the framework within which the political forces of the place will testify to their policies and will be judged by the Greek people, even if the direction of these policies may be liberal or left-wing. SYRIZA ignored this and thought, during the previous parliament, that he could promote an agenda for the Review, according to his ideas. Once again he tried to work on a top parliamentary procedure. Let us consider the circumstances of the time when SYRIZA began the procedures for constitutional review. It was a time when SYRIZA and his members thought they were almighty, that they would win the election whenever they were. And in this way, critical articles that could be revised did not reach the revision power of this House. In the meantime, however, the elections were held to see that SYRIZA was not only unbearable or invincible, but that his basic choices were strongly disapproved by the Greek people. So we should all bear in mind that conditions change and that a review should not be planned that serves party interests and not the real needs of the citizens. The second lesson is that in any case we should seek the broadest possible consensus, especially on issues relating to constitutional reform and not just on issues of constitutional reform. And here I believe it is important that our party should make a contribution, that of the great national choices. This is our choice, and it also appeared from the total presence of my colleagues in the respective Constitutional Review Committee. We have historically demonstrated that we are the part of a consensus, we are the part of the composition. Ladies and gentlemen, I consider it extremely important that the Review clearly separates the procedure for the election of the President of the Republic from the parliamentary elections under Article 32(4) of the Constitution. So stop working on the president's election, which the country paid very much in the respective case of its election in December 2014. It is also important to facilitate the vote of Greeks abroad in Article 54(4) of the Constitution. I think it was a timeless national request and we are finally responding to it. It is also proposed that a minimum guaranteed income system to support the Greek family in Article 21(1) of the Constitution, which was the strong cohesive web of the Greeks that stood up during the crisis and kept the tested Greek society upright. Let me point out here that one of the main building elements of the Greek family is its Orthodox faith. Ladies and gentlemen, in any case we must look towards the future. We may have missed the opportunity today to move forward with the Review, for example in Article 16 on the establishment of non-governmental, non-profit universities. However, the debate in the committee also showed that there was room for consensus and consensus. I hope that we will also get rid of it in plenary and achieve the best possible result for our country, society, its citizens and our political system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, too. Mr Christos Kelles has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, two centuries after the uprising of the genus, which led to the dismantling of the Turkish yoke and the establishment of the new Greek state, constitutional revision should be seen as a long-standing national strategy for an effective state guaranteeing the future of the next generations. However, this was not possible, since at the time a small majority of SYRIZA opposed the New Democracy in view of the upcoming elections. Thus, a great opportunity went unexploited by practically binding the country for the next ten years. Nevertheless, the Revision Committee of the Constitution has produced important work, since the fragile convergence points contained in the submitted Review Plan strengthen the social state, democracy, political stability and accountability. I shall of course begin with Article 21 which states that the state ensures that all citizens have decent living conditions by means of a minimum guaranteed income system. This is a statutory provision stemming from the core of the social state, which we have had with a great deal of support in the House proposed in the same wording. Fortunately the members of the committee have succeeded and incorporated it into the Review Plan. The second article of particular importance to the nation is 54, which provides for the right to vote for Greeks abroad, as well as the constituencies of elections from the Greek Republic. This is a success of our Government and, above all, of the Prime Minister himself, Mr Mitsotakis, who ensured the consent of the political forces by deepening our democracy through this particular provision and by strengthening the collective consciousness of the family. Thirdly, Article 32 puts an end to the political hostage of governments and the disruption of the electoral circles by disconnecting the election of the President of the Republic from using the ballots. The revised provision stipulates that if a majority of eighty-eight Members are not met, a fourth and fifth votes shall be held where the absolute and the relevant majority of the candidates are required. There will no longer be the possibilities to overthrow a government from the opposition, as happened last time with the Antonis Samaras government, in which it was not allowed to complete its work with the adverse consequences that followed. As far as accountability is concerned, our prolongation is taking precedence here. Rule 62 restricts parliamentary immunity only to the parliamentary and political duties of the Member, while Article 86 abolishes the exorbitant deadline for criminal offences of Ministers and of State Secretarys, which are now being dealt with like all citizens. Therefore, through these revised provisions, the political system is self-protected by corruption phenomena and legitimate behaviours that hurt citizens and have restored their confidence in the political world. The same is true of the provisions proposed by our prolongation in order to strengthen parliamentary control. Article 68 allows the minor opposition to provoke the setting-up of committees of inquiry. Ten Members will be able to propose a committee of inquiry and if the proposal is voted for by 2/5 of all Members, a committee of inquiry will be set up. Of course, this regulation does not only concern control, but also the more democratic operation of Parliament in general. Ladies and gentlemen, although these provisions are of a beneficial character to both our society and our democracy, we must point out that a number of predictions have been lost in the proposed parliament to modernise, develop and strengthen our country in order to effectively address the challenges of the 21st century. Why did this happen? I'll stand in four places. First of all, we have proposed that economic freedom be guaranteed and that competition be unadulterated to support entrepreneurship and investment in conjunction with state intervention, social justice and balanced development. Secondly, this provision was supported by the spread of e-government to administration and justice, the consolidation of the principles of good legislation and the codification of legislation. Thirdly, we have recommended the revision of Article 24 in order to tackle climate change by ensuring water resources and renewable energy sources to strengthen the rural economy. Finally, we were clearly in favour of the establishment of private and non-profit universities, supporting the revision of Article 16. Unfortunately, these proposals were rejected and without sufficient justification, with the aim of a single one: opposition to the opposition. That was then, depriving society and the economy of a stable basis, in order to develop freely and indiscriminately in terms of the international environment and not in the past. Is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, to plan reforms and not to give our children the opportunity to study within Greece in the scientific field of their choice? Does it make sense to support the rural development of the country, without taking into account water shortages and desertification, with which areas of our country are threatened? Come to Thessalonica, see where he's in danger of becoming a Sahara. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, our Government is moving on to the reconstruction of the administration and is constantly bringing about legislation that guarantees the sustainable development of the country and for a state that is becoming a day more and more powerful, more modern and more reliable. The work we have produced so far gives the Greeks and Greeks hope and prescribes a future that is brighter with more optimism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, too. The debate will be closed by Mrs Dionysia Agrinopoulou from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u221	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very honoured that our resignation, the New Democracy, and our compatriots in Elias, have claimed me to participate in the composition of this Review House. It is the highest honour for every Member to participate in this topical process of Revision of the Constitution. This is a great project. Good legislation must find its best expression in the review process and it is up to all of us to be as sensible as possible, as we consult on the Constitution, especially because the arrangements that we will adopt will be binding not only on the present, but also on the future generations. As our Constitution is among the so-called 'hard constitutions', it will take at least two more parliamentary compositions until the provisions of the Constitution can be re-examined, i.e. about ten years later. Let us remember that the 1975 Constitution, as subsequently revised, is considered to be one of the most progressive and innovative constitutions for its time. It is the first European constitution that, in accordance with Article 24, introduced provisions on the protection of the natural environment, including the policy guidelines of the World Conference in Stockholm in 1972. No other state in Europe has already raised environmental protection so early on in a constitutional check. It was then incorporated into our Constitution and the dimension of environmental sustainability, as well as other dimensions. However, the Parliament proposing, to us, that is, the Pre-Accession House, which proposed in the present parliamentary composition that which articles of the Constitution should be revised, has proved to be conservative. He did not propose to revise articles which should indeed be put forward for review so that our society and our economy can become more modern and effective, to promote goals and dreams, but also to respond to the beliefs of modern society. Thus, we are not given the opportunity today to incorporate into constitutional rules modern lessons from environmental sciences, globally accepted policy directions, which are codified in international texts as the result of top environmental and, in particular, climate conferences, but also more widely accepted beliefs in society about the need to provide an increased degree of environmental protection. Through a deep conservation of the parliament proposed, Rule 24 was not put forward for revision. Our Constitution will therefore not incorporate for many more years requirements, such as for dealing with and adapting to climate change, for the transition of our economy to a low-carbon economy, for the environmentally responsible economy. If Article 24 had been proposed for revision, it could have been a constitutional requirement today to incorporate environmental criteria into the assessment of investment made in the country by domestic and foreign funds, so that in future only projects that do not harm the environment and do not adversely affect the climate will be carried out in our country. In other words, the Constitution itself could guarantee the environmentally responsible, climate neutral and sustainable nature of investments. The obligation to decontamination of polluted natural resources could also be a constitutional requirement, with particular reference to water, and specific reference should be made to quintusia, namely the protection of biodiversity. The Constitution could in future take another step and provide for a provision to protect the health and well-being of animals, which today in the Greek legal system enjoys minimal protection, revealing the joint legislator as indifferent to their rights. In a prestigious attempt to dialogue with the future reform legislator, I am letting him dare to open up in a broader form of democracy, multi-participating eco-centric democracy, recognising even quasi-generational rights to animals and nature in general. Because the Constitution that we must adopt for the benefit of future generations must shape a beautiful and harmonious environment for our children and for all beings. I appeal, in support of my own words, to the text of the most important international parliamentary body, the Interparliamentary Union, which issued a joint communiqué in Ecuador in 2013 in Kito. In Kito, parliamentarians from all over the world, expressing the people and inspired by the global objectives of sustainability and the agenda for growth 2030, were asked by their governments to shape the right conditions to achieve the ultimate goal of each constitution, which is no more than the well-being of their citizens. This is the supreme state target that is chosen as such by a series of philosophical and political texts, from the Ancient Greek Secretariat to today. However, we cannot achieve it and maintain it, but neither can we experience it in its totality but in harmony with nature. In this enlightened direction to international texts, the future revision of the Constitution should also be initiated. The removal of both Article 24 and Article 16 of the Constitution on the ability of the private sector to contribute to higher education from the list of revised provisions constitutes a loss to the Greek society and should be treated without further delay during the next review process. And the articles that have been put forward for review are all in the right direction. The introduction of the minimum guaranteed income, the change in the procedure for the election of the President of the Republic, the limitation of the immunity of MPs, the guarantees of personal and operational independence of military judges, like regular judges, the establishment of a committee of inquiry by the parliamentary minority, and in particular the activation of the Greeks' vote abroad are important regulations. I would like to congratulate the addition to Article 54(4) of the right to exercise the political right to vote for a large number of our fellow citizens living abroad, who have been unjustified for so many years, contrary to the democratic principle and the principle of popular sovereignty which the Constitution fully demands. Energising the vote of the Greeks abroad will bring us a dynamic part of Hellenism and will only be for the benefit of our country. The heart of the proven Greeks is still beating strong for Greece. With this care we show that the heart of Greece is beating just as strong for all Greeks wherever they are, in Greece or abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, too. The debate is closed on the principle of revised provisions of the Constitution, in accordance with Rules 110 of the Constitution and 119 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-18-S1-commons.u223	With the consent of the House at 21.52' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday, 19 November 2019 at 9.30', on the subject of Parliament's deliberations, on the revised provisions of the Constitution, in accordance with Rules 110 of the Constitution and 119 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, (1st and 2nd thematic section of the Commission: Articles 3 par. (The sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) 3 (repealing paragraph), 3 (importation of an interpretative statement), 13(4). 5, 33 pp. 2, 59 pp. 1 and 2.5 paragraphs 1 and 2. 2, 21 pp. 2, 21 pp. 1 and 3, 21 (addition para. 7), 22 paragraphs 1, 2, 4 and 5 and 25. 3), in accordance with the special agenda distributed.
