ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] First of all, I would like to make the following announcements to this House: The Standing Committees on Production and Trade and Social Affairs present their report on the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: "I invest in Greece and other provisions". The Ministers for Civil Protection, Finance, Foreign Affairs, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Health, Labour and Social Affairs, Justice, Home Affairs and Maritime Affairs, tabled a draft law on 21-10-2019: "About International Protection and other provisions". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Also, the MP, George Papandreou, seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from 23-10-2019 to 24-10-2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Thursday 24 October 2019. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 116/21-10-2019 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Assessment of requests for the re-establishment of the Municipality of Alikarnassos, Zarou, Ruva and Tymbakion of the Prefecture of Heraklion". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 113/17-10-2019 topical question by MP Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "Problems in the orderly functioning of the Service of the Single Social Security Agency (EFKA) of farmers based in Lamia". 3. The question by No. 131/22-10-2019 that was raised by Mr. Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Liana Kanelles to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Serious problems from the decision to transfer the Glyfada MEP's Rehabilitation Centre". 4. The Question No 120/22-10-2019, by MP, North Athens Division of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Klonas Gregoriadis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Questions arising from the report of the Audit Committee for the financial years 2016 and 2017". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 115/21-10-2019 topical question by MP Evia of the Radical Left Coalition, Evangelos Apostolos, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Taking to the full external convergence of direct payments to the rural area". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 133/22-10-2019 of the current question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Reiteration of the social solidarity allowance of pensioners (EKD), introduce a lower ceiling on pensions and support measures for micro-retired people'. 3. The question by No 121/22-10-2019, by MP B2 West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni, Minister for the Interior, on the subject: “Seven thousand five hundred acres, including housing, green areas, schools and forests, from the Metropolitan Temple of the Evangelism of the Theotokos of Lamia”. This means that tomorrow's debate of the bill will start at about 11.00 p.m. because Parliament's control will take place at 9.00 p.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK The only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment, entitled "I invest in Greece and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 17 October 2019 to discuss the draft law at two single meetings in principle, articles and amendments. It's a majority. In order to organise the debate, I would like to propose the following. As the subject was raised in the Conference of Presidents, because the bill is large, I would suggest that the rapporteurs and special speakers should first be given an increased time, that is, twenty-minute protology and ten-minute dentistry. Any one of the rapporteurs or speakers wants to incorporate into the twenty-minutes of his protology and the ten-minutes of his dentistry can ask me and it will be done, but it is clear that tomorrow there will be no dentistry. With regard to the parliamentary representatives, with the appropriate application, I propose that they have fifteen minutes of prototype and, if necessary, ten minutes of second reading. If we agree with this time-consuming, I would ask that the speaking time of the above be strictly respected. With regard to the speakers who are to be registered, I propose that, after completing the list with the end of the speech by the second rapporteur, we consult on the organisation of the speech by colleagues. So for the first suggestion I made, which concerns rapporteurs and special speakers, I assume I have your unanimous agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u5	Do you want to put in this proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u6	No, for another matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u7	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, because you are a multiexpert, I call for experience from the previous period of the House, where a motion was tabled on a constitutional issue. We are therefore asking you for a constitutional proposal to be backed up later, that is, within the day, as the Rules of Procedure provide.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u9	So what do you mean, "slower"?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u10	I remind you that the draft Katrugalou law we discussed...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u11	I am not saying that he is outside the Rules of Procedure, but saying "below" what do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u12	Within this day, whenever you give us the opportunity, after the speeches of the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u13	Then you could testify it when the last speaker was up in Step and not bring it to me in the morning. Because when you bring her to me in the morning, I think you want me to start with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u14	Because we're breakfast, we had a reservation that the night won't be accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u15	It may be convenient for all parties to be here more colleagues etc. So as soon as the speaker of Mera25 comes down, we're going to object to anti-constitutionality. The recommendation is therefore accepted. Minister, as soon as the six special speakers are finished - twenty minutes for six hundred and twenty minutes, two hours - we enter the objection of unconstitutionality. The process will be followed: Legs - opponents, one of each party plus you by rise. Immediately after I suggest you take the floor, because it is decisive, tell us two things: First, if you have any legislative improvements, so that the speakers will know then. If you have legislative improvements, it is good for Members to know them as quickly as possible so that they do not make any comments on what you may have resolved. Secondly, I would like to make one request on my behalf. Apart from the ministerial amendments, which goes without saying that you have already accepted them, if you are ready, tell us which of the amendments you will accept. Of course you have a right until tomorrow before the vote. But it will be useful for those Members who have tabled them, if you have accepted them, not to waste time talking about their amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u16	With all due respect, I agree with what you have said. I intend to bring the ministerial amendments as quickly as possible. It is currently in the General Accounting Office of the State, but as soon as they come I will present them, so that my colleagues will know as much time as possible and discuss them. I will also tell you in my speech which parliamentary amendments I can or may not accept.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u17	Excellent, Minister. Please open the electronic system and close when Mr. Nikos Pappas descends from Step. So we shall begin with the first rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Ioannis Economou. Mr. Economou, you have the floor for 20 minutes. I guess you don't want to incorporate your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u18	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u19	Then you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the draft 'Investing in Greece' bill we are discussing today, the government is attempting to measure itself with the size of obstacles to entrepreneurship and distortions of the investment environment in our country. These are distortions and obstacles that are large in number and wide in scope. They run a wide range of our regulatory framework. They largely define the behaviour of the public administration and shape the attitude and culture of entrepreneurship and investment in the country. That is why the government has designed, presented and implemented a comprehensive intervention, with provisions covering almost all the ministries' responsibilities. Because only in this way will we be able to overcome the weaknesses that have been left in a deep past and the poor legalisation and the fragmentation which are deterrent to attract investment. And it is this multi-brand plan, ladies and gentlemen, with the many small reforms it brings, which will create a different picture and create major changes in the entrepreneurial environment, which will allow us to create a development framework that encourages and does not discourage, which will promote and does not block, which will highlight and does not compromise entrepreneurship and investment. It is a great need for these changes, ladies and gentlemen, if we consider three things: basic sizes of the economy, the country's classification of international indicators of competitiveness and the reality of those who are involved in investment and business in the country. In particular, investment in Greece, ladies and gentlemen, in the last decade, has literally collapsed. Since the 60 billion in 2007, foreign direct investment in the country has fallen to 20 billion in 2018, and today, foreign direct investment in the country remains at one of the lowest levels of the European Union. The rate of unemployment in Greece is still one of the highest in the European Union, of the 17.2%, with an average of the European Union of 6.3%. In July 2019, our trade balance deficit was close to 2 billion. 6.3% higher than last year. Indicators: In the indicator that records the degree of convenience for the operation provided by the economy, for the operation of a business, for the start of a business activity - indicators taken into account in order to select all potential investors around the world, the World Bank’s “Doing Business” indicators – Greece in 2019 recorded the seventy-second position and was on the line of ranking in the richest OECD countries. In particular, the situation is even worse. In the ease of business, ladies and gentlemen, our country has the twenty-seventh place in Europe of the twenty-eight. At the time and at the cost of installing electricity, our country has the fourth place in Europe of twenty-eight. In time and in cost for the property statement, our country is twenty-eight in eight. In trade outside the borders 20th to twenty-eight and in the speed and effectiveness of justice is in the twenty-seventh place at twenty-eight. I am tabling the “Doing Business 2019” report for the record, with the indicators mentioned above. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Economou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Last but not least, part of this puzzle, ladies and gentlemen, is the two and a half thousand investment projects waiting for its turn in the shelves and offices of ministries, it is the months and years that candidate investors expect to obtain environmental licenses, and it is also the paranoia of being able to take different responses from the same services of different structures on the same subject. Yes, different responses from the same services of different structures! In other words, to answer a region's service otherwise the same department of the decentralised region in relation to the same subject. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the draft 'Invest in Greece' bill, we are trying to change this image. First of all, we reform the framework and speed up the procedures for investment projects and development aid. We are broadening both the category of investments that can be characterised as strategies - and the PPPs in this category - and the objects that can be strengthened. The evaluation procedures for investment projects are speeding up, since the possibility of private and private services being exploited and the provision for specific deadlines to be met, we put an end to end to ending suffering procedures, and we put an end to the phenomenon of roaming projects and investors from Anna to Kaiafa without result. The dates for the procedures provided for will be respected, checked and will be the responsibility of the Minister of Development within one month, once all other deadlines have elapsed, justifying the adoption or rejection of an intervention. I note that there is nothing missing in the role of the State, its regulatory and auditing bodies, since sampling checks and effective control mechanisms are introduced. Secondly, with an organised, innovative and coherent framework of actions we face this great scourge. The National Observatory for the Planning and Simplification of Procedures is established, which includes all actions to simplify administrative procedures on the part of the Greek state. The Written Observatory of the Ministry of Digital Policy, which seeks and captures the administrative burdens from the functioning of the legislation, which harm citizens, public administration and businesses, is being established. With a number of provisions in the GFCM, we simplify the lives of entrepreneurs. In five days' time, GEMH services must decide. We allow certified notaries to intercede between businessmen and GEMI. Most of the operations that will be published will be of a declaratory nature by entrepreneurs. We remove the two services for publication and evaluation of the services of public limited companies and leave only the GGE service. I would like to say here, Minister, that the Government should positively see the proposal made by the chambers so that the operation of the GFCM services is not compulsory for three people and that they are headed by PDO or TE, but left to the discretion of the Chambers to determine it. Thirdly, the Single Digital Charter and the Infrastructure Register are established, ladies and gentlemen. The Single Digital Charter will include information on all geographical data, which will clarify which economic activity is permitted in which area. In this way, at a second stage, we will be driving faster and more efficiently into the licensing process, as the data will be known, available, and state, public authorities, namely candidate investors, will speak the same language. The Infrastructure Register, on the other hand, puts an end to a regime in which we had facilities and infrastructure, after years, to remain orphaned and to keep them all responsible and ultimately no one. Fourthly, authorisations are simplified. In particular, as regards environmental licensing, the parallel system of two classifications is abolished, with nuisances and classes. We keep, we choose the issue of environmental classification with categories A1, A2 and B. It is what incorporates all recent technological and scientific developments and contains purely environmental criteria. Simplify the procedure to determine whether a modernised undertaking requires new environmental conditions or not. Fifth, we motivate business to set up a business park. Environmental licensing is facilitated in business parks, which cover in an organised manner activities that may cause a burden to the environment. For an undertaking established in a business park which already has authorisations, it is sufficient for a simple notification that it commences its activity. The establishment of new medium-term nuisance industries in organised activities in Attica, which was not allowed in the past, despite the fact that it is provided for in the Attica Regulatory Plan. Six, we regulate labour market issues. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with our work interventions, this multi-brand development plan, we are moving towards the adoption of sound rules on the labour market. Away from idealism and from ostrichism we confirm and broaden the collective autonomy of the social partners, while at the same time enabling jobs to be safeguarded in enterprises in critical economic conditions. In particular, the new law, harmonising between the others and the existing European practice - particularly countries which have very advanced systems of collective labour relations, collective agreements and a developed social state - gives the additional opportunity to social partners to decide on their own the scope of the sectoral conventions they sign and to exclude, when they agree, from the application of the companies which have proved to be facing major economic problems. Such a law defines, describes, to the extent that undertakings in bankruptcy proceedings, in bankruptcy or bankruptcy proceedings and out-of-court settlements. Accordingly, they will also be applied in order to bring together collective arrangements and to extend them. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to take this opportunity to say a little more. To interpret the government's choice by means of this regulation, one must clearly answer a single question. We have an operation that collapses. What are we gonna do? Are we going to give the institutional opportunity, by maintaining wages above national collectives and employment clauses, to save the company, or are we going to let it collapse? Close the business, lose the state's taxes and insurance contributions, stay on the road. That's the question. And our institutional intervention is self-evident in choosing to help save jobs and jobs. Be careful not to get us wrong. Here we do not have an ideological debate on how to allocate profits or privileges to businesses and jobs that are going well, where everything goes beforehand. We are discussing whether the legislator, if the state, will allow institutional entrepreneurs and workers to agree on a different tactic, ensuring the minimums for workers in order to rescue the operation. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not want and, of course, we shall not allow this possibility given to the social partners, to become a vehicle for generalized wage reductions. We are here - and the Government, Minister, and the New Democracy Parliamentary Group - to ensure in its implementation the philosophy and meaning of this regulation. And to protect both workers and society from any volunteers who will try to canvass the new institutional potential that the institutional framework gives. Keep working. With two innovative arrangements - the electronic register of trade unions and employers and the optional electronic voting option - we increase transparency and participation in the trade union movement. In particular, I would like to say that it will include details - and I have discussed them in detail - its statutes and amendments, the results of the elections, the number of members involved in the register, the number of workers from the organisations involved in these undertakings, which are not personal data and which are therefore not linked to the protection of trade union freedom. One understands, ladies and gentlemen, that these two interventions, in addition to all others, also strengthen the prestige of the trade union movement. Because, ladies and gentlemen, anyone who believes that scenes like the one we lived in the summer, with GSEE to tour all over Greece, will be able to hold a conference and with PAME to pursue it in close proximity to planes, ravines, trains, and complaints from both sides about bulls and trade union mafias and monkeys, are honoring the trade union movement, I think it is moving out of reality. Our work interventions still include provisions to protect precarious work. So we increase by 12% the cost of extra work, overtime, in such forms of parttime work, while remaining fines for undeclared work. We are giving the way out of the fine to two thousand, if the businessman hires the undeclared worker, and at the same time we are establishing the mandatory re-control of undeclared labour enterprises and the register of such businesses. Seventh: A new framework for the licensing and control of antenna constructions on land is established through the multi-project. This is how we manage to shorten half a year, from two to one year - this is the assessment of all the relevant bodies - which will go ahead and implement these procedures. Furthermore, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the regulations of the draft law the judicial procedure is speeding up with the administrative courts and the Council of State. The establishment of the Hellenic Investment and External Trade Company is planned. Better use is made of the resources of the Public Investment Programme which do not go for co-financed projects through the introduction of the national development programme, under which the sectoral and regional development programmes go respectively. The license is simplified for a number of enterprises of health interest in the central markets of Athens. Free access to higher education is abolished. Provisions concerning the standards of schools are laid down. We liberate postgraduate studies at universities from the tight embrace of the Ministry of Education and implement operational arrangements on issues of vocational equivalence. The online betting and electronic games market is still regulated, the system of research institutes is being modernised and the National Board of Research, Technology and Innovation is being established. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end with three main comments. Observation First: "Investing in Greece" creates a development framework, which includes the entire range of economy and entrepreneurship. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against bureaucracy, the speeding up and simplification of licensing, the householding of business parks, the facilitation of investment in 5G networks and telecommunications, the acceleration of decisions and administration and justice, the clarification of what is permitted and where, the protection of precarious work, are regulations and changes that concern everyone. It is obviously about large and very large investments, but it is also about the many small and medium-sized investments that dare hundreds of entrepreneurs and family and small and medium-sized enterprises in our country. They are about investors who make life easier. However, they also concern the protection of public money and of workers with effective control mechanisms and operating mechanisms which it provides for. The second point concerns the criticism of our bill. Our bill has also been well-considered, especially with regard to Members' concerns about whether environmental respect is in line with the changes we have made to speed up procedures. These views and questions have been answered. But above all, to be honest, in order to cover the impossibility of formulating a substantive opposition to a law which, in fact, recommends the imposition of common sense on absurdity, we have seen on the part, above all, of the Officerial Response, repeating one kilowattage of trout. What did SYRIZA blame us for? He accused us of photographic arrangements and benefits. He blamed us for an environmentally indifferent policy, for a policy that fully confers the role of the State in private enterprises, to individuals whom SYRIZA considers in advance a suspect of poaching. He accused us of a policy that prepares general wage reductions. We have heard, ladies and gentlemen, that we are putting specific business interests into development law. And we discovered from the government's explanations that the codes of these enterprises are excluded. Not included. We have heard, ladies and gentlemen, that the development law will take on sponsorship as a sponsor of television broadcasts. And we have seen from the government's explanations and from the public debate that our predictions are about upgrading technology to telecommunications companies. We have heard that Union law does not take account of it. And we have seen that our environmental forecasts go beyond the European Union's predictions and forecasts. We have also heard that we are closing our eyes to colleges as far as professional equivalence is concerned. And we have seen that we are reintroducing a regime that was in place until May 2019, that is, four and a half years over the days of the previous government. Ladies and gentlemen, this criticism is a critical adolescence, it is an ideal criticism and it is also a deeply hypocritical criticism. This is a sculpture of SYRIZA both with the past and with its mirror. And it's on the sidelines of our own concept and our own development line. I should like to close, Mr President, on the third and final point: Ladies and gentlemen, after last July's elections there is a new opportunity in the country, a great opportunity. A chance for growth, for more jobs, for better incomes. But in today's world, ladies and gentlemen, growth is not being ordered. And investments cannot come as a product of self - astonishing prophecy. She needs a plan. It needs a framework for definitive and holistic treatment of the causes and outbreaks that create counterincentives and block investments. Our government instead of inaction has chosen the action. Instead of bourgeoisism and majestics we have chosen to locate, we have chosen to review law - law, article - with the dozens of distortions that make businesses and investors difficult in this place. We have chosen to create an attractive development framework that will attract large and small investors to test their ideas and forces. We have chosen to create a development framework that will allow many more Greeks to find jobs and increase their incomes. And that is why I call on you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u21	You have been quite consistent in your time. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from diplomatic theories it is following the meeting, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the Parliament, and was toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS", the Swiss Regional MP, Alexandros Dimitriadis, by the World Interparliamentary Union of Hellenism. Mr. Dimitriadis, welcome to Athens and the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would also like to inform you that an objection of unconstitutionality has been lodged by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group on Article 57, which is also included in the objection of unconstitutionalism of the Change Movement. I assume you will not object to this being discussed together at the end of the last speaker, since it is the same article as the other objection. Don't have a conversation twice. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that we have been debating in committee over the last few days, and today in plenary today, I am very afraid that it comes to highlight the most resounding ideas which perpetuate the thinking of today's parliamentary majority. It shows, unfortunately, that the government majority is coming to confirm that they are binding on very specific interests. Mostly, however, it seals the difference of philosophy of development between our own governance and today's majority. Our development strategy has been based on concrete data, targets and priorities. For the first time the Greek state acquired a holistic, overall, global development strategy, which did not arise from closed meetings at some closed offices, or from meetings of our ministers with specific sectors simply. It emerged from a long, painful process, through thirteen regional development conferences and which prioritised the country's goals. It was a process that started from the beginning with the aim of exploiting the comparative unique advantages of Greece. If anyone opens up the website of the Ministry of Economy and Investment - as you have renamed it - we will see our Interministerial Committee meet and discuss this strategy. But you have thrown it out the window properly and replaced it with this bill here. We have set targets and priorities. We have created tools that you have so far ignored. You have a bill prepared for the development bank and microcredit. Instead of these coming first - if you would also recognise that the fundamental problem of Greek businesses is that of funding - this stitching of regulations, which are governed by a very common logic, comes. We have exploited - you know - ladies and gentlemen of the government, new international correlations with the country's position on the map. We made it an energy hub, logistics, telecommunications and new technologies. That is why we have prioritised innovation sectors, high added-value industries in our own development law. That is why we have accelerated the procedures, which is why we have succeeded in completing the major roads, which have not been finished with your own governments, and we have even completed them by reducing the cost of the public sector by EUR 750 million. Needless to say, with the dramatic events that have taken the matter, we have also upgraded the country's role in the wider region, with the Prespecies Agreement, with the tripartite and quadrilateral meetings with both the countries of the wider South-East Mediterranean region and the Balkans. This entire legacy seems to be of no concern to your own foreign policy and to the overall development strategy. Mr President, I should like to address the majority rapporteur and say that there is no way in which we can engage in a permanent dialogue of voices. You can't do that you don't see what the Greek Statistical Office records. The country had for the first time since the crisis and then - so as not to go back - ten consecutive quarters of development. We had a record of foreign investment in 2017 and 2018. We had an increase in the gross capital formation during our governance trial. We had a fall in unemployment of about 10 units with the creation of new jobs and an increase in wages. Be careful, because it acquires time and is discussed in Parliament's committees and the budget. In the rapporteur's report, it is noted that the increase in pay has contributed to the overall progress of growth. You do not seem to be trying to remove all this from the public debate and not to realize that an overall international economic environment is being formed with negative pieces of the puzzle - see Brexit, United States-China trade war, recession in Europe's central economies - and you are coming to apply a recipe from the same. Not only is that, but you also throw the occupied territory out of the window by reducing the surpluses that we have achieved before the political change and the elections of 7 July. The surpluses returned to 3.5%, while you received them at 2.5% of our own governance. So stop the hugeities of the collapse of the economy, because the economy has recovered, because it is precisely because a structured and balanced recipe has been applied. And what do we have here now? We have a stitch of regulations, which does not have any scientific documentation. You didn't tell us anywhere that you gathered, thought, see what branches of the economy could be our comparative advantage, that these branches were to be strengthened, and that is why we are doing these hierarchies. Nothing like that. Instead, what are you doing? Invite a study of the Bank of Greece. Yes, sir! Study of Bank of Greece! I have heard the majority rapporteur say that 'our arrangements will not mean a reduction in wages' again. So let Mr Stournara know, because in your study, the only scientific set of arrangements you bring about, not only does he say that your arrangements will reduce your wages, but also in his economic experiments explains that wages will be reduced by 2030. Why until 2030? Because it doesn't count for later. Counts what will happen by 2030 if your settings are applied. You have invoked this study tens of times. I have it in front of me. Read all - and the majority Members, because we studied it - what it says. It explains that your arrangements in the labour market will result in a reduction in wages. And because the Bank of Greece model is learned, when wages fall, the economy recovers, uh, the economy will also recover. Read the study and its results. You will make this much more calm evaluation of the arrangements you are going to bring. I imagine that the same model of the Bank of Greece would anticipate a recovery of the economy after the break-up of the industrial relations that you brought with the legislative act in 2013. With this model, if we were to ask in 2013, we would be told that the economy will of course recover after wages are reduced. It's the foundation of your philosophy. Be careful, or stop invoking it, or start saying what the budget report says. You can't do both. So I urge you to study it carefully. Of course, the Greek political system must be opened without hypocrisy when it opens the debate on Brain Drain. And when we speak of Brain Drain and shed crocodile tears about the young children leaving abroad and opening this debate, especially within the Greek Parliament, we cannot do so without touching on the pay issue. You, besides entering codes that will only allow resources from the development law to go to innovative actions - I will talk to you about this later - you come to establish a policy based on the idea and that if wages are reduced, we will have a development explosion. The problem for you is - I am afraid - that you are bringing the arrangements in the second memorandum without anyone pressing you. There is no justification for the International Monetary Fund. There is only this foreign economic theory that if wages fall comes growth, a theory that has been disproved in the country's recent economic history, a theory that has been forged in public dialogue by the same people, who are now trying to do the same. So, what do you do with this bill? You are making a number of demands from the Greek Industrial Association and, of course, the media owners, as well as the subsidy of two, three branches that serve your government-friendly interests. Let me tell you this: You spoke about code 53, Mr Economou, and you told us that there was no specific mediator business block in this arrangement. I invite you to see the website of the National Committee for Telecommunications and Posts, where you will be informed that the holder of the only press distribution agency in Greece has recently begun to be on the list of companies that can render to the public postal services. So come back...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u23	...a press distribution agency...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u24	They can, you know, sometimes newspapers can be mailed. So hold on. Don't do what you don't see and don't think people don't understand. That's the first. The second thing you have done is to do with broadcasting. I am very sorry, Mr Economou, there has been a verbal clarification, a legal improvement. There is no legislative improvement. At the moment that we are talking about, if tomorrow's regulation is passed as it stands, all broadcasting productions will be able to enter the development law. Isn't that right? You understand, journalists, what I mean, that any production of radio or television, of those that are the current TV programme, will be able to enter into development law. Here is the squandering of resources and the abstraction. And to take you back, for the postal services, apparently some people are dissatisfied. Why? Because our governance, unlike yours, not only protected Greek Posts but also established the Compensation Fund. What does a Compensation Fund mean? It means that private participants in the postal market should contribute with money to cover the costs of the universal service. The universal service provider is ELTA, i.e. individuals should pay the ELTAs, because the ELTAs are obliged at the same cost to go a letter to any part of Greece, i.e. to provide universal postal service. And because we cannot avoid this because we do so in accordance with European postal legislation, you come from the back door and put them on the development board. To make some kind of innovation? To make an investment which will increase Greece's overall productivity, the Greek economy? Oh, no. In order to continue to provide the public with the services they render and, of course, to cover the messenger that will arise from the Compensation Fund. I am not talking, of course, about mining, where there is a contradiction - and I am sorry - he is too small to describe what happened. On the same days that you put in the development law in consultation, the committees that lignite mining activities will fall under the activities that can be subsidised, Mr Mitsotakis from the UN Step told us that we will proceed to total degreeisation by 2028. Attention, the government until then legislated to subsidize lignite mining and Mr Mitsotakis told us that we would get rid of lignite by 2028. Here too, lack of planning, because we did not understand what study in 2028 we would be able to do this, without incalculable economic consequences for the regions concerned and, of course, very significant environmental problems, because restoration of lignite fields and mines is not a case of jokes or a case that can fit into timetables arising from communication rather than material needs. We now go to the notorious Article 158 that the obligation to name shares and owners of SMEs has changed to 157. There is the constitutional provision that says the shareholder composition of the media owners should be known, Article 14(9). In the shadow of this constitutional welfare and common sense and the protection of the public interest all the ministers, but all of them who legislated for private television in Greece, had arrangements for the names of the shares, and Mr. Reppas and Mr. Rousopoulos who are present, and Mr. Venizelos, with whom our party has colluded in the past and will collide in the future, all of them. Right now, what have we got here? We have a regulation, which throws out the window all the legislation of thirty years old, which has ever been in Greece for the private media. Our law didn't do anything terrible. It was based on previous legislation. Do you know what the cut was? The incision was that we applied it. All previous laws were said to be licensed, they were said to be denomination. Of course, we also tightened the criteria, because we also set employment criteria, criteria for the programme and much more. But the incision was that the law was applied. That was the incision. I ask you: How will you vote for this arrangement? You have made legislation on the one hand, and you and the Change Movement - I speak as the heir of PASOK, in part, Mr Katrin - in order not to irritate you and provoke another type of debate - but how is it possible here to pass a regulation, which says that we are done with the denomination and, of course, with the obligation to submit it before you. We are here all obliged to submit where you belong, and they are not the media owners. Don't tell us that this is to invest in the media. When you were managing the media case, we had a total precipitation of working relationships in the media and the quality of programs and Greek production. The public policy which, in fact, has resurrected the production of audiovisual media in Greece is the establishment of the National Centre for Audiovisual Media and Communications. At the moment, more than twenty-five serials have been produced and other films have been produced, for which we have also been criticised because we have financed them. It's not a question of investment. It is a question of making it very easy for very specific interests to hide behind anonymity, and I really believe that it is not a message that the Greek political system should send. Believe me, you won't be useful after this setting. They know their interests very well. It's dawning a new day. You will have done an incalculable favor and put national interests in jeopardy. Of course you should also get a phone to the National Broadcasting Council, explain to them that it can no longer do any more control, to see if the constitutional provisions and provisions of the Media Concentration Act are applied, because total anonymity makes any such empty content control. If the other is entitled to be anonymous, nothing can be checked. I sum up: This so-called development bill is characterised both by waste and opacity and by photographic provisions and by the concession of new public activities to private individuals. You choose, as I said before, the subsidy of branches with an absolutely dubious multiplier effect on the Greek economy. There is a question of opaqueness, as the Minister of Development will have the right to sign authorisations for which he has no competence, and all PPPs are characterised, regardless of size, by strategic investments. So the concept of strategic is missing. A small investment, therefore, on a remote island, which may be crucial to this island, is characterised as a strategy. So we'll have that problem. There is an issue of opaqueness, because the control is being circumvented and circumvented. It's going to be a sample, he says, retrospectively. And, of course, the Court of Auditors’ register is being overtaken by the introduction of the rules on the possibility for large audit companies to carry out audits on the projects under the development law. In other words, by means of this arrangement, a beneficiary may hire an audit firm, which can also do it study and carry out the work, but also check it out in practice if the project is completed. Controller and verifier can become the same personality. And, of course, in order not to forget and not to forget, you also make it easier for government governors and executives to increase their wages, and for the provision of municipal services to individuals. Ladies and gentlemen, what the country and society needs is not this type of neoliberal policies, it is not the implementation of the policies of the second memorandum, this time without external coercion, it is not the implementation of a recipe that led to bankruptcy, it is not the recipe of 'batte, dogs, albass', it is not the advertising of four - five projects as a global development strategy, it is not the privatisation of public goods. What the country needs is to continue on a path towards fair and sustainable development, is the continuation of major infrastructure projects with the present state, is the exploitation of development tools, which were already ready from our own governance, is the rapid and balanced spread of new technologies. And towards the neoliberal model what it needs is a solid and lasting front of social and political progressive forces, which will regain the negative consequences for society of your own legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u25	We're on our way. I would ask that we close the electronic list of speakers. The special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrinis, has the floor. He's a congressman of Elias. I say this because we have requests from people who do not see them, but they hear the President-in-Office say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to ruin the government's account of ambitious development and a Greek investment paradise. The reality, however, is persistent and no one can escape it. The reality is that we are discussing a bill that is characterised as a development plan, but it is a bill that does not reflect any development plan in the country, it does not describe any programme for productive reconstruction, it does not give the right signals to the market, it does not convince the investors that otherwise we want to attract and it is in no way what the business community and the Greek citizens expected. It is a bill that does not constitute a developmental cut, it does not create conditions for new production potential but simply facilitates its acquisitions already in existence. It is a bill that does not have a coherent vision but is a string of fragmentary provisions, amendments and, unfortunately, photographic arrangements. It is a bill, which, like the Minister himself, admitted to the debate in committee, does not claim innovation laurels but simply facilitates or, better, tries to facilitate some investors and settles, Minister, I would like to add, by means of regulations from seventeen different ministries, several of which raise serious questions about their feasibility and their development footprint, since 1/3 of the articles was tabled without any prior consultation, and with the provisions mentioned in the Ministry of Development and Investment to be merely amendments, improvements to previous legislative interventions on strategic investments, industrial activities, business parks and control of investment projects relating to previous development laws. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister very often uses the slogan 'Development for All'. Except that the whole of it does not include small and medium-sized enterprises, 99% of the country's entrepreneurship, which is clearly absent from the provisions of the bill we are debating today. And we don't say that in the Change Movement. The representatives of small and medium-sized professionals themselves say so in the debate in the House and in the committee, and the report assessing the effect of the legislation accompanying this bill confirms it. There is no provision for infrastructure development, funding tools aimed at small and medium-sized enterprises, but also for micro-enterprises in the country. And these are the companies that need guidance, education and synergy, which is unfortunately not provided for in any paragraph of this bill. Of course there are also pleasant notes in this whole grey landscape and I would like to refer to that. They concern yesterday's announcement on the activation of investments that will lever a total of more than EUR 12 billion under the European Investment Strategy Fund with more than twenty-five thousand companies potentially benefiting, but they do not know, Minister, whether there is a plan to make better use of these funds. The ambitious development of 2.8%, which you set for 2020, is being undermined by the very high primary surpluses, which are an obstacle to any development policy as you yourself refer to in the preliminary draft budget. And these surpluses, of course, do not touch them. You have definitively put in the shelf the announcements of any renegotiation. Do exactly what SYRIZA did. For the excessive primary surpluses to which I am referring and which come from the previous government, we have already expressed our vertical disagreement in the debate that is taking place in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. You may think that the 2.8% target is feasible. And we ask: at what cost? What development are we talking about, and who are we talking about? Who are ultimately the beneficiaries of your design? The Prime Minister promised many jobs, which he even called well-paid. On the occasion of this bill, we see the real intentions of the government. You are bringing a model of unrealistic growth with disposable workers who in any case do not share the benefits of the one they produce. Because at the end of the day, ladies and gentlemen, we should all be concerned about who will do the job, who will implement it for the benefit of society and the economy. And the real intentions and the targeting of the government majority regarding the beneficiaries of this bill, at least in terms of labour issues, are confirmed by the extreme support provided to the bill by the representatives of BSE and BSE during the consultation. The intentions appeared from the absence of any discussion on the development of the country's production base, the primary sector, the neo-physicists and small and medium-sized enterprises. Greece needs an anthropocentric model of development a great social alliance between the world of work, the world of knowledge, the people of the primary sector, the young people of precarious - unfortunately - employment and the world of real production. Mr Ministers, with your obsessive pursuits you want to turn Greece into a country of cheap labour in terms of internal devaluation. You are demanding collective agreements and you are strengthening unfair competition, a competition which is now only based on lowering pay but also on worsening working conditions. The Minister for Labour generally regulates the conditions of the labour market and the country, by political decision of the New Democracy, moves from the protection of the worker to the protection law of the employer, in the name of, of course, the extraordinary economic conditions. Because as you yourself describe in the preliminary draft budget, the increase in the minimum wage inhibits the dynamic decline in unemployment. This is a cynical confession of your intentions. And I wonder: Is this your vision? Reducing unemployment by creating jobs with reduced wages, which you are trying to do with the bill we are discussing? We support clearly, explicitly and unnecessarily the National General Convention and the sectoral conventions and their universal application in all companies. You are also causing young workers, workers who have an average pay of over 400 euros, when in the fare article in this bill you are legislating to increase the salaries of the administration to bodies that are subject to the excess, with salaries that dizzy and above EUR 7 000, to settle your own Golden Boys. So do what the previous government has attempted to do with the ANELs, where, of course, after the outcry was forced to withdraw it. We invite you to withdraw it, too. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, your 'vision' - even in introductory form - for the future we have not seen it reflected in any other rather ambitious bill we are discussing, in which less than 40% of the provisions actually concern the Ministry of Development, a bill characterised by the total absence of primary development planning, which takes into account the specific characteristics of the economy and the country. The National Development Plan, which should be an emblematic part of the bill, is simply a text of a management and administrative nature, without objectives, without priorities, without financial instruments for the economy and employment, without an organised, structured and long-term framework, which would really lure serious foreign investors. So what is not done in our country is done in our neighbouring countries with success. And we lose one chance after the other! On the basis of this, the National Development Plan only criteria for the country's development planning are the complementarity of actions with those implemented by the NRP programmes, so that Community funds are not lost. Yeah, it's important. We agree. But surely it's not developmental. In order to strengthen competitiveness, there is a general report, without setting out the pillars of this competitiveness, pillars such as education, research and innovation, newly-born enterprises, the value chains of enterprises, the development of new financing instruments, the networks, the internationalisation of enterprises, the defence industry. In this debate, the government has simply taken on board a confrontation with the Civic Opportunism for the purpose of entering or coming out of codes from the eligible axes, controversy about whether or not they serve personal interests and not, of course, disagreement on the development dimension of these choices or their synergy with the real economy. The National Development Plan, like the entire bill, strengthens a centralist logic, since in many respects the development of any project, the revision of this plan and the definition of the requirements and criteria for integration are made by ministerial decisions and is not defined by law. The centralist logic is spread throughout the whole of the bill, as it strengthens the Minister with additional responsibilities, which, instead of confined to actions and adaptations, extends to decisions simply on every scientific basis. This is how you emit the signal of a state with reduced control mechanisms and, of course, a state with an unstable investment environment, since with a ministerial decision everything can be changed in due course.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u27	Mr Katrin, I am sorry to interrupt you for a moment, but I have to make a statement to this House. I'll keep your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u28	Of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory twenty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the 17th Municipal School of Kallitheas, as well as forty-eight students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st Municipal School of Painland. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Carry on, Mr. Catherine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u30	It was a pleasant break, Mr President, useful and necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, in the three months of New Democracy's rule, there is a strong case of self-review, since the majority is forced to amend provisions, which it itself had put forward and had voted some time ago. This isn't the first time that this bill has happened, and I'm afraid it won't be the last one. In the regulations of the state of staff which, as a concept and content, will be devalued much sooner than would be expected, thirty-six articles are corrected from those which were voted less than two months ago. The articles concerning the Local Government agencies were tabled in the bill without any prior consultation and many of them are the third time we legislate about. Characteristic of the maliciousness that is adopted, is the article by which previous rotating meetings of local government bodies are legitimised and at the same time - listen - listen! - they cease to be criminal and also disciplinary prosecutions that have been persecuted. So, ladies and gentlemen, with this suggestion, the House turns into a business washing machine and replaces, quite simply, justice. We and we have completed and denounced this provision and asked for it to be withdrawn. That is what we are reintroducing today and we are asking you to withdraw it here and now! Only as irony, of course, can the introduction of a National Simplification Plan be understood, when further committees, addresses, observers, institutions and procedures are created in this bill. And, of course, you are glossing over transparency when you are completely undermining the role of any public service as a control mechanism, creating a parallel control mechanism, without an increased assurance of credibility. In this way and by putting the audit firms in the investment data certification process, you are creating a conflict of interest, as these companies, which are likely to cooperate with the investor, end up being the same ones who will ultimately certify the investment, while the role of the services is simply limited to finding the completeness of the audit file. Ladies and gentlemen, another important issue is that this bill does not set priorities for climate change, priorities that should obey the needs of a climate-neutral economy. You dispense with the European Fund for Strategic Investments, thereby creating a form of deregulation, as this fund provides for a number of minimum sustainability criteria with regard to PPPs and safety margins in relation to the environmental suitability of investments. The issues of business parks need increased attention, and the activities that will be planned and carried out in them should be thoroughly monitored, because it is reasonable to fear that firms with toxic, chemical or supposed recyclings will be installed in areas that are already environmentally burdened, such as the areas of Western Attica and Piraeus. In the same way, it is important that the lack of the energy footprint from the recording features of the buildings in the National Infrastructure Register, indicative of the hierarchy and of the priorities you do not have for the "green" development policies. I would like to make a comment on the regulation of antennas. We are obviously not occupied by a techno-phobic approach. We want, however, to be sure that there will be direct harmonisation with the new European standards, when they are set, of course, on the basis of the security of citizens and with a view to the rapid transmission of information to the new digital economy. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the bill has nothing to do with sustainable development that the place so badly needs. It does not, however, relate to the development strategy and the basis that the country needs, to small and medium-sized enterprises. And that's the big deficit in this bill. But we are neither short-sighted nor miserable. There are positive provisions such as the Single Digital Charter, the National Infrastructural Register, the regulation of professional rights of contractors, the modernisation, of course, of justice, the national broadband project and several of the arrangements that speed up and simplify procedures, such as most of the provisions on GEMI. We do not, however, agree with the removal of powers and resources from the communes, because this bill extends the number of services which can be awarded to individuals, without complying with strict conditions, which actually justify the failure to carry out these services by the municipalities. And I think it is important to strengthen the local government agencies, make them economically viable, strengthen them with resources and not deprive them of resources already provided for them. Unfortunately, I do not see the Minister for Development here because I would like to ask him a question. I'll have to do it in his absence. Minister, Mr Georgiadis, in your speech in the government's programming statements you invoked your negotiating abilities to manage the issue of the viability of a large Greek company facing a problem in its relations with the banks, persuading the banks to facilitate this business. And you did well. I know that Mr Georgiadis is a man of the market, he is a person who talks with citizens, whether directly or through social media and receives information. It is therefore impossible for the Minister not to have received any complaints about the atrocities and to a large extent abusive charges already imposed by the banks on the citizens for simple transactions, which will be intensified after 31 October. These charges are already complaining of consumer associations, trade associations, the whole world of the market and ordinary citizens. They are charges with which we disagree, we consider that they have no moral and political legitimacy and that, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we have not heard any statement from the government to date and, unfortunately, no statement from the opposition. So, Mr. Pappa, leave the premise of a conflict with Mr. Venizelos you said before and decide whether you want to clash with the bankers. And get a communication, which says that you disagree with these abusive charges and support the amendment tabled today by the Change Movement. Here, then, is a splendid field of glory. We have therefore tabled an amendment to this issue, so that the banks unilaterally stop charging citizens for services such as simply updating the balance or changing the pin code. I do not know if Mr Georgiadis has used his negotiating skills in this direction to convince the banks to lift these charges, but I believe he can use his political power as a co-responsible for this, and accept the amendment we have tabled to this debate, so that the Minister and the Government himself can give this Chamber, the temple of democracy, a clear signal that the rules put on them by the political leadership alone, which ensures that the interests of the citizens are defended. And, of course, together with this amendment, we have also tabled an amendment for workers affected by the bankruptcy of 'THOMAS COOK' and for postgraduate workers on the environment and energy. Ladies and gentlemen, the absence of elementary development planning, the disorganisation of the labour market, the lack of environmental sensitivity along with the clipboard but also a fragmentary way of legislating are the elements that, unfortunately, characterise this bill. These are the main reasons why we are voting against the bill in principle. Of course, we will not make a policy with screaming, with extremism and no binding attitude, which is why we will not hesitate to vote in favour of many of the articles, especially those of our permanent political positions. Mr. Tsipras had spoken of fair growth, which no one ever saw. Mr Mitsotakis talks about growth for all, but in fact they are for very few. And it is not a question of having an obsolete model of development that simply meets a number of numerical targets. The aim is to create a model of development that concerns all Greeks, with a plan that mobilises the productive forces and exploits the real potential of this place, a model of development based on the high skills of the human resources available to our country, based on knowledge and innovation, a model of development inclusiveness, a model that creates new, quality and well-paid jobs, a model that improves the lives of our young people and gives young people prospects. We in the Movement of Change in this model believe. We at the Change Movement for this model will fight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u31	Good. We continue with Mr. Nikos Karathanasopoulos, a special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece. Come on, Mr. Karathanasopus.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. The title of the bill we are discussing is: 'I invest in Greece and other provisions'. What is the aim of the bill as the government claims in its report? It is through this bill, creating the conditions for the production of new wealth, namely the improvement of the entrepreneurial environment and the attraction of investment. Why does the government want to do that? Because it goes on to make some findings in the explanatory statement. What are these findings? Some of these are that in Greece it is particularly low per capita income and there is low standards and wages. Are these two findings actually made in the explanatory statement, are they skirted? Isn't there any particular reason? We say, of course, that what you say about low per capita income and low standard and wages is the result of the policies implemented by the former governments and the New Democracy - PASOK and SYRIZA - that is, the full-on attack by the workers, the wide-popular strata on their livelihoods, reductions in wages, reductions in pensions, health merchandise, education, welfare and a tax on popular income. It is a result of the measures of the Memorandum Law, through which labour, insurance and trade rights have been crushed, creating conditions of the jungle in the labour market. So you are accomplices to this crime that has been committed to the detriment of the people. Why did you do that? No, of course, just for fiscal consolidation. And at the bottom of the line, why did the people have to pay the broken capitalist crisis and the excessive burden of the urban state, when this overcharge of the urban state came from policies that served and supported the interests of business groups in every way, such as development laws, procurement policies, the various, that is, scandals that emerged from this process? It is not the people's fault, but it has been called upon to pay for budgetary consolidation. Not only that is why you have done so but have done so in order to create the conditions for the most famous capitalist development, conditions for capitalist growth in conditions of overcompensation, but also for increased competition. And what are these conditions? The package is foreseeable. You don't get a la cart. And this package is imposed by the financial laws of the capitalist system, the iron heel of capitalism. And see in titles what are these prerequisites? A prerequisite is the first basic and sovereign condition. The attack on the workers to increase the degree of exploitation of the working class. That is to make the labour force even cheaper, so that the labour force without labour, insurance and trade union rights can be consumed. Second condition. Create new areas of action for overcompensated capital from waste management, from management of water resources to anything that can be imagined. How's that gonna happen? Through the decline in civil activity, through the merchandise of social policy sectors, such as education, health, welfare, through the promotion of privatization of public enterprises, through the divestment of public property through public-private partnerships. Assuming third condition. New scandalous - not that there were - incentives and privileges in big capital. And such incentives and privileges are tax, they are financial. Fourth field. It is the subjection of science research, technology in the pursuit of business groups to shield its competitiveness and profitability. The first is the adaptation of the urban state - both its central services and its local and regional structures - to the new needs of business groups. An adaptation that has as an expression the adaptation of spatial planning and land use to the pursuits of business groups and not to the improvement of the quality of life of the popular strata. It is the removal of any restrictive measures in place to protect public health, the environment and archaeological sites. All of this with a word, you apologies of the capitalist system, call it "rock" of bureaucratic obstacles. These two main findings in the explanatory statement are used by the government as a pretext for moving forward with the specific multi-brand plan that we are discussing in providing 'bad and water to business groups' but also for escalating the attack and extinguishing what was left of labour rights. This is why it is no coincidence that in a development bill entitled "I invest in Greece" it includes provisions that demolish labour rights, which aim at full control by the urban state and thus the employer of the operation of labour unions. So the question arises, why did they get a bill of this kind? In other words, it is a bill, which is the leading act of continuity of the policy of the previous SYRIZA by the current Government of New Democracy, with which, of course, - and it is normal - individual differences that may exist between the two parties, but differentiations which do not dissociate either the substance or the serious anti-popular consequences. So, despite the verbal perceptions of anyone who is divisive, precisely trying to cover up and overshadow the continuation of politics and the agreement between SYRIZA, New Democracy and KINAL - PASOK, the strategic choices that serve the interests of capital. From this point of view, it is particularly revealing that Mr Drasakis, who was the Vice-President of the SYRIZA Government, was present in the committee discussing the draft bill. And what does it say? In this bill, Mr Drasakis - I read from the official minutes - maintains the previous institutional framework created by our government, namely SYRIZA - and as far as the law on strategic investment is concerned, and as far as the development bank or financial instruments are concerned, it also incorporates a bill prepared by us - SYRIZA, that is, as a government - for the national development programmes. That's what Mr. Drasakis says. It's the basis of the bill they're discussing. So the basis of the bill we're discussing is the policy of the SYRIZA government. To be clear, Mr. Drasakis says so. That is why there were also those contributions between Mr Drasakis and Mr Georgiadis. So their common basis, and the New Democracy and SYRIZA, are the interests of capital. Their common basis is the competitiveness and profitability of business groups, despite their individual differences in which parts will benefit more or less from this policy, but also how best to safeguard the overall interests of the capitalists. Their common foundation, both of the New Democracy and of the SYRIZA and of PASOK, of course - not to leave it out, of the Change Movement - is the squeeze of wages, because only through wage squeeze can the competitiveness of business groups be shielded and profitability ensured. What's their difference? If this wage squeeze comes from the wage freeze or from the increase in labour productivity, however, both methods lead to the same result. What is the same result that it is actually employing and should be employing the working class and the people? That leads to the squeeze of the real wage and to the increase of the piece of pie, that is, the production of the wealth that the capitalists possess. It's what Marx revisited, of course, Marx and then you threw him in the trash - he called the two sources of goodwill. The absolute and relative goodwill. You fight if it is absolute or relative gainfulness, which leads to the same result as the New Democracy, that is to increase the degree of exploitation of the working class and the deterioration of the working class conditions. So, in conclusion, the New Democracy Government took over anti-grass policy from the SYRIZA government and legislates what? The remaining 32% of the demands made by the SYRIZA's government for BSE, as stated in the last general meeting before the elections by the Director-General of BSE. The government is therefore moving on to this policy of providing 'growth and water to business groups'. Let us look at the most important aspects of this political earth and water. It incorporates, in the SYRIZA policy, strategic investments and the PPPs, i.e. public-private partnerships. What does it achieve with it? It encourages the PPPs to move forward. What does it mean to advance PPPs? It means that municipalities, regions, other state bodies will be more easily able to cooperate with business groups and give business groups a number of aspects of their activities, in particular aspects relating to the fulfilment of the people's social needs. So, on the one hand, the funds are out, on the other, social policy is being traded even more, so it makes it much more difficult for the people to meet basic needs. Second element. You also extend for the least - because the SYRIZA Act on Strategic Investments had various categories - strategic investments the building factor that applies to large enterprises. So you double him from 0.3% to 0.6%, and if you ask any engineer or student of polytechnic school, he'll tell you what a huge gift this is for business groups. What a huge gift that is! Third. Do you allow Attica to set up medium-term enterprises, which have so far been banned from the given legislative framework, where on the basis of what this will lead to? It will lead to the deterioration of the quality of life of the people's population, because, of course, these medium-term nuisance operations will not settle either in Kolonaki, Kifisia or in Kathl. Fourth. You go on privatising the control of the implementation of investment projects and, in fact, you give them to the audit firms. So “Yannis Yiannis drinks”. What are they gonna do? The audit firms and not the public authorities will testify to whether an investment is made, to what extent it follows the plan and through this certification of private companies the investment will be financed. In other words, ‘Yannis and Yannis drinks’. And then what will the bourgeois state do? Just to some sample-checking investments if they were carried out. And here it is characteristic that they are being made easier, not only to make use of depreciation, so artificially raise the cost of an investment, so that it can be much greater in terms of state funding and the tax exemptions they will have, but you also give them the right to self-control. Fifth clue. Accelerate the licensing process. So you remove any protection that existed in the archaeological sites, the environment, and will prevail the special spatial planning plans. Just what do you say? You say that before the operation begins, the company will inform the relevant Ministry that there is going to be an inconvenience and that the relevant departments of the Ministry will not approve the authorization for this operation and the degree of nuisance it will grant. Six clues. Go further on to the "block" of Sunday holidays and distribution centers. Seventh clue. Submit - this is the bill that Mr Drasakis has not brought - the Public Investment Plan in five years' time instead of an annual one. On the basis of the substance of the national funds, what is co-financed by the NRP is complementary to European programmes, which have specific eligibility criteria. And the eligibility of European programmes is the needs of business groups. But do you include the national part in what policy? In the policy of development, therefore, the needs of business groups. You therefore include not only the co-financed part, which is already going in that direction, but also the other part that will go there too. Some poor resources from the Public Investment Program went for infrastructure projects, which could fragmentally protect and improve the living conditions of the people's strata. Today, however, you eliminate any such case. And I'm talking about anti-military works, anti-nuclear protection works or anti-Semitism armour. You are moving on to the legalisation of online gambling, and we should abolish both online gambling and every gambling. So not only will we have new casinos but we will also have the legalisation of electronic gambling. You also facilitate privatization with this article, in which you give further possibilities for the municipal council to act in its judgement and without an increased majority or justification, as provided for in the existing legislative framework. The government of SYRIZA did not revise this legislative framework, that is, the municipality may grant the collection of waste to individuals. So, without an increased majority, any municipal council may decide to grant the collection and transport of solid waste, the cleanliness of public and municipal spaces and buildings, but you are extending it even further, that is, to the maintenance of green and electric lighting. So, where do you extend it? To what the reward fees are. So, in essence, the business groups involved have guaranteed their funding from the fees. This will lead to an increase in the fees, while at the same time giving them the "fillets", which are the waste, for which there is a killing between the business groups, for whom the waste will be managed. You are also giving them the lighting, which is now with these energy cooperatives, the installation of the RES, and all this is a great 'chilet', as well as the green that is related to the free spaces. Next element of all this is the installation, installation and installation of mobile phone antennas. Make it easier to install and place them, without taking into account the risks to public health. But it also has other issues, quite "pipera" the bill, such as the exception to denomination of the shares of companies that control the media. And why are you doing this? To increase investment, he says. And the transparency you're saying and claiming, where did it go? And that's not all you're doing, but you're moving a step further. You are abolishing and the need to submit where you belonged to the shareholders of these companies again, he says, in order to facilitate investment. For the journalists, you've got any place you've ever had. So you don't have the boss anywhere, and he has the clerk. That's the culmination of irrationality! You go further in the formulation of conditions for evaluation of research centres, which may be entrusted to any legal person. In other words, a private company can also undertake the evaluation of a research centre. And on what basis is this evaluation to be carried out? The criteria on which the evaluations are to be carried out will be formulated on the basis of the needs and satisfaction of business interests rather than on the basis of scientific, academic and research criteria. Go further on to liberate postgraduate studies, what was left over, what had escaped from the SYRIZA to apply tuition fees or generalize tuition fees to all postgraduates. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As far as I am concerned, Mr President, I will also need my denial.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, I suggest not give you all the time of dentistry, but five minutes, to have five more minutes for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u35	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u36	The other element is the smashing of labour rights. They face a new overwhelming blow to collective bargaining, especially to industry. You move on to even more suffocating control of trade unions by the state of the employer. So you are creating a mechanism for permanent armoring the profitability of capital, so that we can have an effective wage squeeze with criteria not the needs of the working class but the competitiveness of business groups. You proceed with an exception from the most favourable contract and with an exception from the extension of the sectoral contract. What are you actually doing? Business contracts make them take precedence over both local and sectoral contracts. So the importance of sectoral contracts, which were also the nail in the eye, is undoubted, despite all the changes that had been made and which had been lost by sectoral contracts with previous legislation. You are therefore giving priority to operational contracts, in order to consolidate, you say, a climate of conscientiousness and social partnership. That is to say, the interests of the employer and the worker itself, so we can sit down as buddies and agree. So what contract do you impose? You impose that contract which favours the employer. That is what you are imposing on the substance. So, what's your route? You are launching what BSE was asking for, the flexibility in contracts, and it was also a requirement of the OECD. But was it a requirement for whom else? The Committee of Experts appointed in 2016 by the SYRIZA Government for the best practices in force in the European Union. So here is what best practices are in the European Union. Flexibility in contracts. And then you say it's peculiar in Greece or some neoliberal outbursts! In fact, these exceptions will be made by ministerial decision. Of course, here we should be talking about the hypocrisy of KINAL's special speaker, who says that they are defending the national and sectoral convention. In 2012, which was then PASOK, of course, not KINAL, was together in the coup d'état with the New Democracy that abolished the sectoral conventions and the national conventions. You move to electronic voting to decide the unions even if they are going to strike. You are therefore abolishing collectiveness and, in substance, within electronic voting, it will decide what the employer wants. It is therefore hypocritical that you say that you want to increase democracy and participation. The same thing was said by SYRIZA when he brought in the amendment that increased to 50% plus 1%, so that someone could decide on the strike. And all this will be done by ministerial decisions. So, for everything the Minister will decide and soon, at the moment he has taken, he will also ask to participate in the general assemblies of unions in order to legalise a general assembly. You do other things. You are hypocritically saying that you want to protect parttime work. And what are you doing, he says? You increase overtime by 12% in parttime work when you normally have 40%. What is that on the essence of the matter? Incentive to employers. You say to them 'work people with part-time employment, generalise this regime in your interest'. You'll face, he says, and you'll step on undeclared work. What mechanisms? With the Labour Inspectorate that was subordinated to SYRIZA today, do you deceive her? With these mechanisms, will you deal with all this? Or is it with the Committee on Games that you are reviewing the article, and can the operation of a casino no longer be suspended when more than sixty days remain unpaid? Are you doing this for Rio, where the workers are 15 months unpaid? A gift to the businessman? That's why you do it, of course, and it's clean. So all this shows that the effects and effects on workers will be cumulative and sweeping. So the working class has to conflict with this policy. It is a one-way conflict with this policy and to prevent worsening from the worst and to recover losses, but above all to prepare for the final conflict and race. Why, look, you all defend the capitalist system. What is the result of the capitalist system? The one that was published yesterday. Worldwide, 0.9% of the richest control 43.9% of world wealth everywhere. Everywhere! All over the capitalist world from America, Asia, Africa and Europe. There's no exception anywhere. What's that? It is a trend of capitalism that the rich become richer and the poorer, resulting in 56.6% of the poor of this earth, this planet, have only 1.9% of the world's wealth. Here is what you admire and what model you serve. In the face of this model, then, there is a way out and it is the way out that the JRC proposes. For this very reason, Mr President - and I conclude with this - the JRC is voting against this plan, it will also ask for a roll-call vote in principle and on the articles that break down labour rights and subject the labour movement to the dispositions of employers and the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u37	Good. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the upper Western theory, twenty-eight students and students and two teachers attending from the 20th Municipal School of Peristeri. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would like to inform you that there are some hundred and forty colleagues, which means that tonight we will go instead of 12 o'clock in the evening, 1 o'clock, if you all want to talk by tomorrow, which will start at a certain time. We are closing down with the two special speakers, we are entering the objections of unconstitutionalism which will be consolidated into one, and then the Minister will take the floor, who will not have any whims, as the rapporteurs have taken longer, so the Minister instead of eighteen will take at least twenty-five minutes. The reason is now Mr. Villardos, a special speaker from the Greek Solution. Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u38	Ladies and gentlemen - those of you here - at the first meeting of the Committee on Development Bill, we said that in relation to the preliminary draft of the consultation, topics were added on GEMI, topics of the type: National Development Programme and Investment Plan, provisions for the Foundation of the Grand Hellenic Research and Innovation, other provisions, other arrangements of the Ministries of Justice, Education, Interior, Infrastructure, Citizens' Protection, arrangements for the final state, for the OTA, for the Ministry of Finance and for the Ministry of the Environment, amendments, in a way, to the Government's mistakes, just as we had foreseen, within the draft, so that they would not be added as such. Significant changes have also been made, some of which may have a serious impact on individual issues, such as PPC's debt payments, social benefits services, i.e. the release of payrolls from members of the board of directors of companies of the Supreme Council, so PPC, the non-nominalisation of media shares, the provisions on police and others. Finally, we have analysed a first series of articles that we saw as problematic or simply incomplete, despite the fact that they are in the right direction, mentioning their faults along with our proposals, so there is no point in repeating them. In the second committee, now, we were initially placed in the loss of two positions of Greece in terms of its international competitiveness, because the Minister responsible criticised the previous government on this. We said this in summary: the aim of the Greek Government today is to increase our country to the index of global competitiveness, including through the new development bill. This bill gives literally land and water to investors and leftover banks at the expense of the citizens. With complete liberalisation of the labour market, by deregulation of collective agreements and by abolishing all kinds of rules on multinationals. Now, according to the organization that scores the competitiveness of each country, a good position means long-term potential for growth. But what is true about the members of the organisation who compile the indicator? Simplely an institution in which the thousands of strongest multinationals in the world are involved, with an important budget, funded by the hundred strategic partners of the organisation, while strategic partners can only become leaders of international sectors of the world economy with long-term good governance and aim to improve the situation of the world. That's how it's described on the institution's website, and it's not funny, as you might assume. Among other strategic partners are Deutsche Bank, the criminal gang in the German police itself, and the US ‘AIG’, which was among the companies that triggered the 2008 financial crisis and were rescued by taxpayers. It is difficult, then, to believe that they have good corporate governance or that their goal is to improve the conditions on the planet. While the entire structure of the institution reminds of the corresponding international transparency based in Germany and its members of the most corrupt companies in the world. By analyzing, now, the methodology of the competitiveness index, one finds that it operates using factors that do not directly affect competitiveness but indirectly through the returns on investment that the institution considers to be the key growth levers. It is therefore considered that the aim of the best possible profit of companies is synonymous with the objective of rising growth, which means that everything that increases the profits of multinationals investing in each country. They are positive for its competitiveness and lead to its growth. In summary, the country's high score means for multinationals: Firstly, their investments will be highly profitable. Secondly, that much of these returns will not be taken to workers through wages or even to the public through taxes but to their own funds, and thirdly, that they will not be faced with annoying laws and regulations such as environmental regulations. There is now an impressive similarity between the countries in the upper positions of the competitiveness index - that is, where Greece wants to go - with those which are also placed in the first positions of the shadow index drawn up by the organisation of a network of tax justice, the Tax Justice Network, i.e. the higher the competitiveness index each country is, the more unfair each country is in terms of its ordinary citizens, which is probably not a coincidence. For example, countries such as Switzerland, Singapore, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, the United States and Germany are firmly in the first place in ranking the competitiveness index. Obviously because they have the necessary infrastructure, which helps multinationals to undermine tax legislation and transparency rules. The indicator, therefore, essentially measures the importance of the various states worldwide for multinationals, so that they can choose which country best serves their interests. One of the individual factors of the competitiveness index is flexibility in the definition of wages. In this case, a country has a low degree when it has a central procedure to determine the wages of workers by means of collective agreements, while a high degree when each undertaking alone can determine the wages. In addition, free redundancies without compensation lead to higher positions as regards their classification in the global competitiveness index. [[The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr HARALABOS Athanasios, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr HARRAMPOS Athanasou.]] The Greek Government, therefore, with a view to increasing the country's ranking in the competitiveness index, in order to achieve the growth of foreign investment, plans for the complete abolition of the laws and rules on multinationals, among other things, with the new development bill. In other words, the provision of tax avoidance, the abolition of collective agreements, the facilitation of redundancies, the abolition of environmental or archaeological obstacles, etc. If it succeeds above, with the advantage of the fact that its previous government has opened the way by convincing the Greeks, unfortunately, that there is no other solution, then Greece will indeed have a much better place in the competitiveness index, attracting investment that, however, will not benefit the citizens at all, but will impoverish them even further. In simple terms, it will increase the GDP of the country but at the same time reduce the standard of living of the population, which, unfortunately, the citizens will see when it is too late, as has happened, in many other countries. There is, however, one problem to which the government has not given the necessary importance or simply hides it from us. The fact that the attraction of foreign multinationals requires particular tax treatment, such as by Ireland, to which they are not taxed at the rate of 12.5%, such as all other companies, but at much lower than after they have been negotiated with the authorities. In addition to this, our country's great problem will be the world's most expensive energy prices of EUR 22.5 KWh in relation to Europe's average or EUR 30 higher than Germany or France, which will be an additional very big obstacle, which will be very difficult to solve. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We continued with our remarks in individual articles, while in Part Three, where we also placed ourselves in other articles, we mentioned the following: Investments that the government wants to make, require demand either domestically or internationally. The first, however, continues to suffer because of the general disgraceful conditions of our economy, such as, for example, real private consumption, which was negative in the first half of the year despite tourism and migrants - Illegal immigration, but we will leave it behind - and the second will require an increase in the country's competitiveness, not in the indicator but in the real rise in competitiveness. Competitiveness, however, on the basis of the criteria of the trade balance and the current account balance, whose deficits are increasing again, is going worse. Given the predictions of a European and global recession, these are wishes which do not help us at all. If the government plans to achieve growth through the rise in foreign investment through the fragmentation and sale of public enterprises, in the disastrous recipe of Mr Hatzidakis, as well as the provision of 'geo and water' to speculators, in the context of Mr Georgiadis's disastrous recipe, among other things, the creation of special economic zones with impoverished workers will not find us in agreement. As far as new jobs are concerned, it is not only enough to increase but must also be decent, not least to support domestic demand and make sustainable long-term investments. However, what Greece needs is its own development plan based on the primary sector by transforming it into industry, such as energy, which, unfortunately, is being sold out, such as ELPE, PPC and PPC, to profitable public enterprises, with positive future prospects, to high technology and, of course, to shipping. Secondly, tourism, which is not only a high risk capital intensity, as shown by the bankruptcy of 'THOMAS COOK', which will cost almost EUR 1 billion, is also a cyclical industry, in which case the first to suffer from a possible global recession, but also, to a large extent, consumes foreign products. So, in fact, most of what we collect is left abroad. However, we want to vote on the bill, although we disagree with several articles, because we support anything that is for the benefit of development. But it makes it difficult for us, on the one hand, for this is a summing up, without a structure and without a start and, on the other hand, because it includes photographic regulations which are not at all legitimate. Mr Georgiadis, of course, described it in his last committee as an attempt to regulate malfunctions and not as a development bill, promising that he would soon bring about a new one. It is therefore an abbreviation with photographic regulations, which he himself accepted, and which should explain to us one by one. In any case, we believe that if the Public Investment Programme does not exceed EUR 10 billion of the EUR 6.5 billion available in the budget, sustainable growth will not be achieved by Greece, but by opportunity, speculative and robbery investments that will be destructive in the long term. Today we want to complement that what we did not see in the development bill is how the profitable public enterprises will be used to produce wealth and government revenues, unless the government considers that public revenues should only come from taxes, so that the Greeks are impoverished. They must, however, know that if profitable public enterprises are sold out, then the State's income from their dividends will cease. They must therefore be replaced by new taxes, which, unfortunately, is what the government is hiding but which will certainly happen. Furthermore, the budget, when the companies are sold out, will be charged with the money we will give the new owners for social benefit services, as in the case of TRAINOSE, which was state-owned by Italy compared with only EUR 45 million and which was agreed to be paid EUR 50 million annually for RIS, when the company was previously punished with fines from Europe for such support. Finally, Greeks should also be aware that the new owners of public enterprises that the government plans to sell - to companies from other countries and not to private individuals - such as IPTO, DATA, ELPA, ELPA, EYDAP, ETH and so on - will be to increase prices and exploit European packages belonging to Greece for their own investments. An example is the state German "FRAPORT", which bought only the fourteen profitable airports with an incredibly scandalous contract, immediately increasing the fees and airports of Macedonia, with European packages belonging to Greece. As far as renewable energy is concerned, which claims that the government wants to promote, while interested parties like the Germans of RWE have already appeared, abolishing lignite ten years earlier from Germany, to support the business ventures of the domestic and foreign economic elite, will not benefit Greece at all but foreign companies that produce wind turbines or solar energy systems, selling them expensively in Greece. In some articles that were not mentioned during the committees, I would like to say the following. I shall refer to Article 59(3), where we consider that a longer period of eight days should be given for 'ERGANIS'. The United States is given three months so that an employer can check whether or not the worker fits it. In the next article, we wonder why a certain fine is not imposed, from the outset, in the other cases of fines that we have seen. Is it because in other cases the government leaves a field of transaction and corruption? Obviously, this is where the worker is involved and cannot be traded, i.e. whether the employee concerned is declared or not, there is no scope for a transaction. In addition, paragraph 6 provides for a substantive action before the administrative courts, without suspending the payment of the fine. But since the administrative courts have been doing too many years to deal with a case and then we have administrative appeals and perhaps S.H.E., it is clear that the imposition of the fine is extinguishing the businessman even if there are real reasons to avoid it. Instead of a fine, therefore, our proposal is that the employer should be forced to hire the worker for a full-time year or to pay him one year's wages if he does not want to be hired. In Article 66(1), we think that there should be a full exemption for the employer from the fine if he hires the worker for 12 months in full employment. This will be a stronger incentive than collecting the EUR 2 000. In Article 67(2), with regard to the registration of employers who are making black-list infringements, the Observers' Register, the EVA and the 'ERGANI', we are generally opposed to 'Tiresia' phenomena. Recording should take place for a certain period of time and then there should be a limitation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President. In Article 83, in particular for PPPs, a limit of sixty days is set for the protection of antiquities and the continuation of work. We consider it very little and, for example, I will bring the "Venizelos" station to the subway of Thessaloniki. The Archaeological Service has raised objections. Why is that so? For Castelli? Article 151 promotes the non-coverage of equity participation in investment. It is stipulated that no fine is paid in some cases. Is that a photographic arrangement too? For who? Finally, in Article 158 on non-nomination of media shares for OECD investment companies, who is behind them? Have you considered what will happen if two or three natural persons set up special-purpose companies to cover and invest through them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u39	Please take the floor by the special speaker of Mera25 Mr. Kriton - Ilias Arsenis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about this here. It is not the Athens list of Attica, it is the polynomial that we are discussing at the moment. What does this bill include? It includes gifts. They can build specific families in Greece now without environmental permits, buy anonymous channels, build skyscrapers everywhere, employ workers without collective agreements, have private municipalities and plenty of electronic gambling. Let's go a little more thoroughly. Work. In fact, the troika and the lenders were more sincere when they abolished the collective agreements. What this bill makes is to make them so perforated with so many exceptions from their application, which will simply not be implemented. There will be no incentive for workers to engage in collective bargaining, to claim a good result, because it will very simply be something that will not be implemented in practice. If a worker has two different sectoral contracts in the field he works and it is not clear to whom he belongs, the operational sector prevails. If it is not clear whether the sector or local is the case, operational power prevails. It cannot be signed sectorally if the employer of a large company employing 50% of the employees in the sector does not sign it, and the result will be checked not on whether the two parties agree, but on whether competitiveness is strengthened. Excluded from the application of the sectoral agreements, companies with financial problems, without specifying what this is, without defining the concept of ‘economic problems’. But who was this definition, when we know that in the bankruptcy procedure a virtual request is made many times to get time, the bankruptcy check is holding an endless period of time? So for anyone before it turns out to be in bankruptcy or not, it will have been too many years by using these provisions, and then it can do the bankruptcy procedure again. There are restrictions on mediation, and if we look at what happens with trade union action, this new General Trade Unions Register. He enters this register, where the employees involved, here and they have denounced that it is a fresco. This register, which will be written by all workers and trade unions, will be dominated by the Minister's administrative right, which will decide on each issue by zero, on the publication of the register's data, on the keeping of personal data, on the provision of information and any technical details. In other words, if the Minister chooses to make the register public, business will know when they hire someone if they trade, if they have to put him on the blacklist, because he claims his rights. As far as grants are concerned, what is subsidized by the development law? Very simply, broadcasts that have not been subsidized so far, broadcasts of well-known journalists, broadcasts of channels that are at the moment all governmental, and suddenly these broadcasts will be financed by development law. This, ladies and gentlemen, looks like a payment of letters, at the same time as canalarchs will be anonymous. Mining and mining are subsidised where these activities are not taxed. We are talking about Scouries in Halkidiki, now an extraction of gold is being prepared in the Sapes in Komotini, in Perama, in the Prefecture of Evros next to Alexandroupolis, we have Fokida in the Roman landscape, which 45% of the area has been declared mining zone. In other words, against our Halkidiki tourism, which is the dormant landscape, which is so many other regions, we are entitled to mining activities that are not taxed. At the same time, electronic gambling is being promoted at the cost of two to three million applications. One thing, of course, which is very impressive - again in the consultation, we were presented by the institutions - is the predictions of archaeologicals. This Single Digital Map is introduced, where within six months the services must record - in this case the archaeological - each monument and a declared archaeological site. At the same time as the Ministry of Culture runs a funded programme for the archaeological map, the archaeological register, which will not be completed in these six months, but will take more time to complete it. At the same time as we know that too many monuments and archaeological sites have not yet been declared, but are self-justly protected by the archaeological law, Law 3028/2002. But the trick lies in the fact that what will not be mentioned in this digital map will be considered as non-existent. No service can refuse investment or construction permits - a building - based on data not included in the Single Digital Charter, when we know that it is impossible for our archaeological monuments to be fully included in it. With regard to PPPs. It gives this small bill sixty days to the officials to approve issues of antiquities. If they do not obey, in addition to their sentences, the authority goes to the Directorate-General of Antiquities, without the corresponding staff of the inventions. And they have thirty days to answer. Otherwise self-determination shall be given. Let's go to the Greek. The Government is changing the new building code in order to ensure that there is no possibility of insulting the Council. One of the casino skyscrapers in the Greek. This draft law brings us a new category, the building of special architectural design, where more than thirty-two measures provided for in the new building regulation can be built exceptionally. This is a photographic, apparently, provision for the Greek, because nowhere else in the Greek case-law is mentioned the notion of "special architectural design buildings", rather than the prefecture for the Greek. But to satisfy Greek businessmen, they open this window across Greece. From the day after tomorrow, anyone in Greece can build buildings, called special architectural design and build exceptionally the new building regulation. Anyone can build skyscrapers everywhere. As far as the municipalities are concerned. In the big business plans - a mall, a private village, a city inside the city, like the Greek one - these businessmen will not pay municipal fees. It will be forbidden for municipalities to deal with cleanliness and electric lighting. Entrepreneurs will collect these municipal fees from residents who will stay in these private cities or shopkeepers. Of this, they will only pay 20% at the end of the year to the municipality. You're actually creating private municipalities. With regard to environmental permits. We have retrospective monitoring of the necessary supporting documents from the new industrial companies within BIP by means of simple notification, but also in areas where there is a major industrial use. At the same time, we have an installation without an environmental impact study in the BIP. And the Minister said again - and you did not respond, Mr Georgiadis, when I put it to you on several occasions - that there is no problem because the BIPs are licensed. They've already got environmental license. Has he received any industrial environmental permit for gaseous pollutants? When you bring these unauthorised waste incineration plants into the BIP, will they be located in the BIP without an environmental impact study, because BIP is licensed and to have biological cleansing for liquid waste? All licenses again. Banks and private enterprises will evaluate investment projects, supervise investment implementation, certify that they have been checked to proceed with projects in order to obtain subsidies, state aid, companies. And if these - banks or private businesses - are discovered to have been corrupted and incompletely audited, they will pay a fine of EUR 100,000. This, ladies and gentlemen, is an incentive to corruption. It's not a stimulus. Change of environmental conditions. And our thoughts go to Skouria. Right now we know very well that the existing licence was virtual because there was never a way to get gold from the mix with the flash melting. This method never existed. And well, the state didn't give that permission. It will be possible to change the environmental conditions in Skouria without a new study, since the employees of the service within 30 days do not say that a study is needed. These employees will not have the fines of the rest. Don't worry. They will simply not be able to respond within 30 days and to proceed with a change in environmental conditions without an environmental impact study. At the same time, we have the murder of Antonis Tritsi's spirit. The last measure left for decentralisation, the ban on the installation of medium-purpose industries in Athens, is abolished. These industries will now be able to settle in Athens. After redeeming Melina Mercouri, announcing that he will gladly accept the property of the British Museum on the sculptures of the Parthenon, and we can borrow them from it, it is now finalising the political murder of Anton Tritsis. I hope you do not make the year Antonis Tritsis in 2020, as you did Melina Mercouri, for atonement. As for Tritsis Park after seeing the state abandonment, since for three months this government left this park headless, where the mandate of the management board had ended and people did not have to hand over the keys and delivered them to the Ministry's protocol, since all infrastructure for three months is unguarded, the state comes to say: "Yes, we are incapable and we give it to the region". Ladies and gentlemen, let us look at the big picture. What stops growth in this country? It's stopped by overtax. Corruption stops her. It is stopped by the abolition of every purchasing power of the Greek family, the inhabitants of this country. You have been elected to stop this overtax, and yet you are losing your political legitimacy with these tumbos. You were elected to reduce the primary surpluses. On both issues, because lenders react, you don't go any further. What we see with this bill is that Greece should be transformed into an over-taxed - forgive me for the expression - bananas. Because that is the expression for countries where no rule applies: Extreme taxes for residents, no rule for investors. The essence is what we said at the outset: gifts to entrepreneurs, to build without environmental licensing, to buy channels anonymously, to build channels in ancient skyscrapers everywhere except for the new building regulation, without collective agreements, with private municipalities, with electronic gambling. In Greece, employment is generated by small and medium-sized enterprises, more than 90% of employment. They bring growth, they bring jobs. However, this bill does not provide for anything for them. Mera25 is clear and we have brought you an amendment: you must abolish 100% of the tax advance. This is a nipple on the neck of small businessmen. The grown-ups know how to avoid all this. VAT must be reduced to 15%, direct taxation must also be reduced, small business tax to 15%, to 20%. Instead, you donate activities, any kind of mining, ore, approve the oil that affects tourism, which brings us over 1 out of 5 euros in each of us's pockets. Yet, you are ready to sacrifice them lightly. Why? To take pictures of two, three businessmen and drink with them at a cocktail party. Because it's hard to formulate policies for many small ones. Because they don't have a face, you don't meet them at your meeting places. With these policies, all you can achieve is new memos and not growth. Then, having given all this little gift to businessmen and having nothing else to give, the troika will come and tell you what else they're talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u41	Please come to Stepma, Mr. Dionyssis Stamenitis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u42	What's that, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u43	I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u44	You weren't in the morning. We have submitted...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u45	To prevent you, Mr. Colleague, do you mean objections of unconstitutionality?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u46	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u47	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative is on his way and has asked for some time to meet the vice-president. It's a practice that's going on. Patience two, three minutes. I don't think the world's gone. This has been done on several occasions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u48	Okay, there's no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u49	We are entering the speakers and once all the parliamentary representatives are here, we shall begin. It's not a matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u50	Everybody's here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u51	Of course, of course. Is Mr. Stamenite here? He's not here. Mr. Chakalotos is here? Oh, no. Mr. Castanides is here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u52	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u53	You have the floor, Mr. Castanides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a bill which one could describe as a 'peripheral', from which one can proceed from anti-constitutional provisions to incredible gonatograms. The Government began its parliamentary term in the statement that it intends to adopt rules of good law, and has also codified relevant provisions. At the beginning of her term, she said that she violated the rules of good law, because there was no time to prepare or wait, as the current problems were urgent. I would remind you that the first two bills violated the principle of consultation, in the next bills it invoked the principle of urgency or urgency, and now it is proposing a bill which would even be jealous of Pas Estensor from Latin America, where the International Monetary Fund imposed the so-called 'practical legislative bricks', i.e. the blocks of bills regulating huge material. First of all, why do some ministries constantly legislate as smugglers on the grounds of the testimony of another bill? A classic example is the Ministry of Digital Policy, which recommends a comprehensive draft law on antennas, parks, organisational structure and which could state itself. The same could be said of other ministries, but nonetheless they show the deep faith in the government's 'good legislature' principles. We are before an unprecedented event, at least on that scale. As you know, the first two bills proposed by the government and then became laws, Law 4622 and Law 4623, were passed by parliament three months ago. In a number of provisions of this draft law, the wording of both laws is changed, notably Law 4622. To read the numbers under Article 178, Mr.4623 is amended. The Minister for the Interior has not made a good calculation of how the members of municipal businesses will be appointed and is re-evaluating as a good mathematician. It is also amended again by Law No.3852 for 'COLICAT' in so far as they did not have time to amend by Law No.4623. Under Article 175, in thirty-six full paragraphs, the whole of Law 4622 is corrected for the famous state of accomplishment. In other words, within three months the staff who constituted the law for the final state and defended the principle of good legislature, have arrested that they have not legislated well and may not actually exist if the thirty-six paragraphs of Article 175 are not added. As I said, there are anti-constitutional provisions. One of these is the article which is recommended by the present Minister for Competitiveness, on industrial parks. I read Article 12(14) on business parks: ‘ Exceptionally, cleaning, lighting, waste collection and other services may be provided by the management and administration services of the business park’. This is done by simply announcing to the Local Government, the local municipality. If the parties concerned resort to justice, I believe that there is an extremely high chance that the provision of an anti-constitutional court judgement may be judged by the courts. Because Article 102 of the Constitution stipulates very clearly that, firstly, local affairs are the responsibility of local government bodies. Secondly - and most importantly - Article 102 lays down an irresponsible presumption of competence for local authorities. Thirdly, Article 102 of the Constitution says that the law defines what local affairs are. The laws, therefore, identify what local affairs are. Local affairs are, among other things, lighting and cleanliness, and therefore, due to the uncivil presumption of 102 of the Constitution, the provision will be judged - in my view - an anti-constitutional. On gonatograms, there is a good - I would like to point out - effort to achieve undivided geographical data in the context of the single digital map. After testing piloting, after a period laid down by the law, improper spatial data are binding on all public bodies. Afterwards, therefore, the binding nature of the spatial data follows the provision proposed by the Government. I read: 'After becoming binding all the geographical data...' - and I would be grateful to someone to explain to me the legal wording, what they mean - '... no refusal to grant any investment or construction activity on the basis of geographical data not included in the Single Digital Charter'. I would ask my fellow Members, belonging to either the Politics or the Opposition, to explain to me what exactly this provision means.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u55	Infringement of forest law, for example. It expressly says it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u56	We'll see what he means. Ladies and gentlemen, because I referred to the Ministry of Digital Policy and because the Government is simplifying procedures and the Ministry of Digital Governance... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Can I have your tolerance, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u57	Go on, Mr. Castanides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u58	....is the Ministry that has undertaken simplification of procedures and rationalisation of administrative action, I must tell you that it is constantly creating a growing number of committees that compose a bureaucratic field more difficult than the current one. Note: With Article 48, ladies and gentlemen of the Partnership, a high-level committee is set up for the Digital and Administrative Transformation of Greece. The Committee, as set out in Article 48, shall consist of persons of unknown prestige and experts from the field of politics, science and letters. First of all, I hear for the first time that there are experts in politics - I assure you that I hear that now and I would like to see who is the author of the relevant provision - as well as experts in the field of letters and arts. There are, however, nowhere in this committee of acquaintances of administrative science who can suggest ideas for the administrative transformation of the country, there are no people of information systems who can also help. It is, as has been pointed out, well-known persons and experts from the field of politics, science and letters. I assume that Mr Loverdes, for example, as a recognised person and a policy expert, will undertake to propose concrete actions to the committee on cybersecurity issues. Mr. Loverdos used him occasionally. It could be me. In addition, in accordance with Article 46, the Ministry of Digital Policy shall set up a Special Committee for the preparation of a new Code of Administrative Procedure. Some time ago, however, they provided for the Central Committee on Coding, to which they attach many responsibilities, including to decide whether other codifying committees are worthy or not. And since the Central Committee on Coding does not exist, they will consult the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs, who, in fact, does not have time to follow contradictory provisions between the legislators. Now, the Special Committee for the editing of a new Code of Administrative Procedure will also draw up a coding guide. Why cannot that be the responsibility of the Central Coding Committee? He'll work out - look out! - Coding guide! After setting up this special committee on codification, Article 47 also provides for an Observatory responsible for measuring and printing administrative burdens from legislation and regulatory acts. The Observatory which investigates what regulatory acts of the administration or legislation create administrative burdens...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u59	Minister, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u60	I shall conclude, Mr President. ...cannot be incorporated into the original high-level committee for the country's digital and administrative transformation! In other words, the Observatory will record which of the government's legislative shortcomings create burdens on the administration of the country and, after it does so, it will hand over the ballot to the committee of high prestige for administrative transformation! This is what the new Minister for Digital Governance predicts. I shall close, Mr President, by Rule 84. The Greek Investment and External Trade Company is established under Article 84. According to its provisions, the Hellenic Investment and External Trade Company operates for the sake of the public interest. The Hellenic Investment and External Trade Company has a capital of EUR 293,400 and is fully covered by the Greek State. The same company acts, according to the definitions of the bill, as a state body in organising reports abroad. Despite the fact that, according to the provisions proposed by the Minister, all this is happening, the Hellenic Investment and External Trade Company does not belong to the public sector, it operates according to the private economy model, which means that it can recruit whoever it wants, as it is outside the public sector. And, be careful, despite the complex system of internal audit services and internal auditors, there will be a major issue in the first strand. Once it is a state body, the entire share capital is controlled by the Greek State, it acts in favour of the state interest, it is not the private sector, but, if the crime of felony infidelity is brought to an end tomorrow, according to the current Criminal Code, infidelity will not be against the State, so the prosecution will not be automatically ordered, but it will be indicted. That means the CEO, who is usually the legal representative of the company,...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u61	Minister, please. You've been in thirteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u62	He'll never turn against himself at imprisonment. So that's what the government legislates and you understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u63	Please, please, get it done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u64	Of course, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. ...that this is a new legislative monument to the present government of the country!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Chakalotos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u66	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u67	In a minute. I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u68	Why are you doing this, Mr President? We interrupted the Constitutional Review Committee to come here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u69	Let me explain. There are many committees that are working, from which colleagues are now coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u70	We interrupted the Constitutional Review Committee to come here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u71	This has been done on several occasions. Otherwise, there is an circumvention of free expression. The world isn't lost.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u72	It's gone! Now he's gone!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u73	You will be given the floor. Mr. Chaakalot, come to the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u74	No, Mr. President. Don't make me get two signatures. I want the floor on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u75	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u76	It is well known - and I said this this morning, when Mr Kaklamanis chaired - that the objections to constitutionality can be raised at any time by a Member or a parliamentary group in the legislative process. However, we also said that we should wait for the objections, but the government, which will defend itself, to be brought to an end first by the rapporteurs. So this House will be able to monitor and combine itself with the Constitutional Review Committee. There is no other committee of greater prestige than that. As a legal person you understand. There was a coma on the face of a fellow parliamentary representative, and rather a copy, and we agreed to wait, because that was the logic. But it is now time, Mr President, to debate the objections. The meeting of our parliamentary group has been suspended, the Constitutional Review Committee has been suspended and you are holding another process. Please don't go on like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Loverdo, I agree with you. That's what the Rules of Procedure say. It's the president who determines it. Mr. Kaklamanis said so. I have no objections. However, many Members have said that they should not be deprived of the right to attend the debate on unconstitutionality. Now they're coming. So the world has not been lost to listen to another speaker. So Mr Tsakalotos will speak and then we will hear the Members who will develop unconstitutionalism.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u78	Then, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u79	The world isn't lost. It's been done on several occasions. Don't create a problem now. It is the highest right of Members and it is not the fault of the committees. This procedure has been arranged. The world isn't lost.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u80	But you interrupted us from the Constitutional Review Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u81	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u82	We shall now proceed, Mr Levane. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u83	Thank you very much. Because we have asked for a little more time - and thank you for the tolerance of this House and of the Bureau - when Mr Tsakalots is finished - because there is a great deal going on today - we can, Mr Loverdos, object to unconstitutionalism.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u84	I've been notified that the committees are stopping and coming. The world isn't lost. It was not predicted that the objection of unconstitutionalism would be raised and the committees started. They're coming. Mr. Tsakalotos in seven minutes will be over. In addition, it is renowned for its condensed reason. It won't be seven minutes. Here, Mr. Chakaloto, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking about growth and development, and there are quantity issues and quality issues. The main point on the left is that there is no mechanism in the market economy that ensures the right quantity, the one we need, or the right quality of investment. What do I mean as a proper quantity, for example? One could say those investments which ensure full-time employment. What do I mean as quality? Is it investment that will bring jobs with quality and prospects? Are investments that respect the environment? Are they investments that will have a regional dimension? We say that the market itself cannot guarantee this. I'm starting with the quantity. I have often criticised, and when you were opposition, and now that you are in the government, on macroeconomic issues, as there is an entire European debate on banking union, on a larger budget. Now I want to tell you from the point of view of microeconomics. There is a debate in Europe. The Commission proposes a budget of 1.15%. Some tough countries say that this is already too big. Other countries want to take it to 1.3%. Do you have a seat? Because you're the Europeans. Do you have a position exactly what should be in Europe? So, what will your ministers say in the European debate? Do we need a major investment initiative at Europe's level? And this can be about 1.15%? Do you have an opinion on this? Do you think that German trade unions and others are right that what Europe needs is a Marshall plan with investments that change the climate? Because the amount of investment is not only low in Greece. It is lower than it is in Europe and in Europe it is historically low. Do you have an opinion on the German surpluses? We are told by the Germans and other countries. Except, apparently, some rules are more equal than other rules. Do you have a position if it blocks competitiveness and investment in the south that Germany has surpluses in the balance of payments almost more than China? Will this not affect the possibility of increasing investment in Greece? Do you have an opinion or don't you? I haven't heard from you. I have not heard a speech from either Mr Mitsotakis, Mr Georgiadis or Mr Stakoura, which puts a European dimension on the table if these things are needed. Second, we should go to quality. Yesterday I was with Mr. Skylakakis in Thessaloniki at a conference organized by the newspaper "MAKEDONIA" and told us that the key to the investments is to get rid of, to take out the mines that prevent any investment. Is that your arrest for development that we can only take out mines? Apparently, there are mines. In fact, in our development plan, we had set three areas. All citizens could read it because it was online. He said what it needed for the public sector and what it needed for the court proceedings to be done faster and what it needed for investment permits. Of course, there are mines. But are there only mines? What's the quality information? Are you following the European wage debate and that a huge problem is that wages no longer increase in modern capitalism by increasing productivity growth? What you're doing here for the quality part that's related to the labour market, aren't you doing it for the wage squeeze? For some other reason, are you doing it? So, do you think what you're going through for collective agreements will not compress wages? And do you not care that all of Europe is concerned about why wages do not have this growing trend, even as a productivity increase? Mr Arsenis and Mr Pappas have told you examples that are not mines, but the problem with the environment. And your answer is, because you might have read a lot when ENRON escaped, that we're going to go to a private business that tells us everything's going well, that we don't have a problem. Of course, this private firm will not be in a favourable position to invest, even though it will have other projects that it expects. So, both in the ecological and the environment and in the social sphere, you do not guarantee what we say about quality development, investment that can together integrate and integrate good jobs and good wages and respect for the environment. Do you have a development plan? I see in Article 120 for the national development programme that you take away this approach that we had on the development plan, without telling us what was wrong. You say that the state must keep going. Is this the next debate where our strategic plan was wrong? We overreacted for investment permits? We overreacted for the public sector? Or did we talk well about the public sector, but wasn't there any other problems? So there's a basic problem in this law. The main problem is that it does not have a development framework and a programme and guidance. The theory that we take out mines means that it is a signal on the market that you invest whenever you want, where you want, without orientation, without priorities. We made a development plan. What did we want for this development plan? We wanted a wise management of knowledge. And in our own approach this knowledge is everywhere. It is both government and local government and regional government and chambers and societies. A debate on the priorities that we want to invest, how much we want investment and quality elements to be. The ultimate state seems to be unable to do it. Mr Kastanides also said so very well when he said about the experts in politics. Perhaps Mr. Kastanides had in mind the discussion between Socrates and Progoras, where Progoras said that politics is an art like all others, and so it is for the few, while we say politics is for everyone. And the key element of your development plan is that you cannot, you do not want to integrate this knowledge that is in society everywhere. In other words, you think that by making some obstacles we will have growth. It is a model that has not worked for the past twenty years where it has been implemented. And that is what I am ending, Mr President. Where applicable, the results in the investment rate are very low and in quality are even worse. It needs a development plan, but there is no need for a development plan that is a project without a central idea where you want Greece to go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter the debate on the objections of unconstitutionalism which have been raised, I must inform you that there was a tolerance, of course, for the first two speakers, I hope it will not continue. They have said thirty-two Members who want to speak, plus fifteen ministers with the appropriate time and the parliamentary representatives. We estimate that time will be at least thirty-five hours. If the seven minutes are not met, and perhaps some time after consultation with you with the then President-in-Office, there will be six minutes. It's a sin if we break time, not all colleagues speak. So, please, let us all respect the time. As you are well known, constitutional objections have been raised. Although SYRIZA has been tabled - and Mrs Ahtsoglou signs it - unconstitutionalism in relation to Article 57 of the bill and in terms of the Change Movement Article 53(8), Article 55, Article 56(4), Article 57, on the grounds - quite rightly, Mr Loverdos - in particular paragraph 2 of Article 22, if I understood correctly - of the Constitution. So there is a differentiation in the generality of the form and I will say it, because perhaps we will be different in the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u87	And not just.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u88	Speaking from the point of view of SYRIZA's applicants is Mrs Ahtsoglou, from the point of view of the Change Movement Mr. Loverdos and Mr. Bougas will be rival.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u89	We have tabled a motion for a resolution first, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u90	Wait a minute, Mr. Loverdo, let me finish. The conversation is for five minutes. I would suggest that the debate on unconstitutionalism should become unconstitutional, if there is no objection from this House, and from what I see there is no objection. Before I give the floor to the speakers, do you have anything to say on a point of order? So we move on with Mrs Ahtsioglu taking the floor. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u91	Why, Mr. President? We're ahead of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u92	Okay. It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u93	For us there is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u94	You've been ahead of time. Sorry, I wasn't up to date when it went. You have the floor, Mr Loverdo, for all four articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u95	Mr President, I address the Minister of Development...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u96	There will be a small tolerance, because you have more, that is, four articles. You won't keep the five minutes, but please as soon as you can.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u97	I'll try not to get far. Speaking to the Minister of Development, I say to him that the way this draft law was put forward instead of being entitled "Investing in Greece" to call it "What do we know, if we are not deceived", because this draft law, the development issues, has marginalised them. Work has entered, as we have learned weeks ago, and let us accept that these could and could be linked. But all this together, Mr President, does not exceed 45% of the provisions of the draft law. Here, this is a multi-brand plan, and as you have heard from the contributions and first placements, perhaps other than the last speaker, most of them are talking about issues, other than development-related issues, when the country has been afflicted by the recession and when we all say that growth to give solutions, with data on primary surpluses, must be not just shocking but shocking. In this draft law, therefore, and while we should only discuss development issues, we object to constitutionality on employment issues. We let Mr Georgiadis speak later and place ourselves to the extent that we are going to be able to do so. The thirty-four speakers you said, Mr President, are about those who are in the budget. So in two days' time, and not three, which is the budget, we have to discuss so many serious issues and demonstrate, as Mr Kastanidis has done to some extent, the contradictions between this draft law and the law on the executive of a state, namely the uterus of the multiplication of bureaucracy. So we don't stand a word - a word on development issues, and let's go see other issues. In this respect, we have raised objections of constitutionality, as you mentioned, Mr President, by reading our request, to certain provisions relating to industrial relations. The three of them, 53.8, 55 and 56.4 belong to the same agenda, so my arguments are uniform. As you know very well, much better than the rest of us who have not been judges, the case-law on Article 43(2) of the Constitution, namely the provision of the joint legislature to the regulatory authority must be specific. When we say a specialist, we do not mean the legislator to mention the title of a subject. The title of a subject alone does not provide evidence of specificity. It must also establish criteria on the basis of which the lawmaker will in fact say that the regulatory administration has operated on the basis not only of the issue raised by the ordinary legislature but also of the criteria specific to the matter. Therefore, the counter-competition, but also the Minister, must tell us - the provisions I have mentioned and the very serious issue that is involved - when a collective agreement is repelled because of the difficult economic conditions in which a business has come and when it is a living reality. Because, as we can all understand, if we do not have standardised procedures, let us say foreclosure, otherwise, as the authorisation is being structured here, the Minister will set up at will when such a problem arises, i.e. economic difficulty which requires the transition from the course of things he wants to collective bargaining. So, Mr President, because you are legal under Article 22(4) in whole and in system under Article 43(2) is our first objection. Our second objection is to Article 57. Here, I wouldn't have anything more to say, because I don't have a short memory. I remember when you were Minister, you weren't in today's sense, but you were a raider and you had to face tragic situations. I remember legislation, I do not have a short memory, and that is why I am very careful. I would therefore say to the Ministry of Labour to see very carefully the decision of the Council of State on 2307/2014 and I would stop. But I will take a few more seconds from the time of the House, Mr President, to highlight what the Scientific Service of the House points out to Parliament and to the Government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In the last paragraph of the relevant study on Article 57, the Scientific Service draws our attention to the fact that it is fluid when - in order to resort unilaterally to arbitration - the final end and failure of a collective bargaining has come. This vagueness allows wishes. The wishes lie outside the Constitution and outside the order on collective bargaining which I have spoken about before. In addition to the decision of the Council of State, which the Government must take note of, there is also a comment in the text of the Parliamentary Scientific Service which requires all parties and the relevant Minister to have answered now that the debate will take place and when he receives the floor for his own five-minutes as Minister, how exactly will the provision be interpreted, otherwise, Mr President, the arguments on unconstitutionality are very strong.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr. Loverdos. Mrs Ahtsoglou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In this bill, we have a number of working provisions, which hit at their core once again collective bargaining and collective agreements. They hit the two basic principles, the principle of more favourable regulation and the principle of expansion, in the same way as the second memorandum, i.e. with surgical blows to sectoral collective labour agreements and arbitration. It was precisely these two points on which the second memorandum insisted. It is obvious that this is where a mechanism for the compression of wages and labour rights is created. It is a stated objective, a stated objective of the second memorandum. He's actually a stated target of this bill too. It is not just the experience of 2012 to remind us of all this, where we had an eruption of business collective agreements that most of them predicted wage cuts. There is no need for the experience of that social disaster with the simultaneous explosion of unemployment. The very scientific text which the government invokes as the only scientific basis for what is being proposed today, namely the text of the Bank of Greece, clearly says on page 4 that we have a mechanism that will lead to wage reductions. Another analysis from there and beyond neoliberalism, that this will have growth potential. However, it's a stated target. We agree on what Mr Loverdos said, namely that there are a number of unconstitutionalities and in many other parts of the bill we shall always support them. For our part, however, we want to insist on one - because, in our view, it is clear - that of arbitration and it is clear because we also have the relatively recent unanimous decision of the Council of State. A word on the constitutional issue. At 22.2 it is clear that the constitutional legislature has made a choice for the priority of collective labour relations arrangements, that is to say, labour relations, as a priority, to be regulated by collective agreements and that is why there is the principle of subsidiarity of state regulation. It is precisely because it wants this priority that they should be regulated by collective agreements, by decisions between employers and workers with the result of collective autonomy, that it has put all the effort into the matter of arbitration. When we say that it is dressed with the arbitration box, it means that the activation of arbitration does not presuppose the agreement and consensus of both parties. If it were to be said, there would be no special reference to referral of the Constitution to arbitration. If, in other words, the parties had to agree to go to arbitration, that would be within collective autonomy anyway. That is to say, as they agree on a number of other issues, they agree to go to arbitration as well. But that is not what the constitutional legislator wants. It also wants the possibility of unilateral referral to arbitration. All this was said very clearly by the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State in its unanimous decision in 2014, where there unanimously decided that the regulation of the second memorandum abolishing the right to unilateral referral to arbitration was unconstitutional. And the court said in particular that if the referral to arbitration were to be understood only as consensual, the specific reference to the constitutional text of arbitration would be unnecessary and also that the constitutional purpose of resolving disputes is not served if part of the collective dispute, refusing to accept arbitration, is in fact capable of canceling its solution at a collective level. So it says the Council of State that both the letter and the spirit of the Constitution protect the right of unilateral recourse to arbitration. What's the government doing? How's the legislator doing with Article 57? It effectively abolishes the right to unilateral referral to arbitration. It sets so many conditions where in practice the vast majority of workers will be impossible to have the right to unilateral access. It says that this can only be done if it concerns public utilities, so it excludes a huge number of workers from having access to arbitration. It says that this can only be done if there is talk of greater public economic interest - who will judge him and when will he be? - that this case is not already covered by the first concerning only the ECJs. It adds another precondition that only if any other means of trade union activity has been exhausted can they appeal to arbitration. So, trade union action, what? The strike? Does the legislator make the strike condition for referral to arbitration? But the very meaning of arbitration is to make work peace through collective agreements so that we do not have to get to trade union action. Does this make trade union action a prerequisite to go to arbitration? It is clear that we have a number of conditions here which make the right to unilateral recourse to arbitration completely inactive. So we have a regulation which affects its core the right of unilateral referral to arbitration. And the worst of all is that we have the legislator coming here to abolish the decision of the Council of State by law. What rule of law, and what distinction do we have here? It is a flagrant anti-constitutional provision and we insist on it, precisely because it supports it and the Council of State, and it will certainly have to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Ahchioglu. I would like to ask the Vice-President of the New Republic, Mr Buga, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I should first of all like to say that the bill removes a number of obstacles which have created a problem for development. It's not anti-developmental, as Mr. Loverd said. Now, as far as the issues of unconstitutionality are concerned, I will begin with the provisions that the Change Movement says as supposedly unconstitutional. It is the provision of Article 53(8), 55 and 56(4). These provisions, in accordance with the explanatory memorandum to the bill, ladies and gentlemen, facilitate collective agreements in the current operating conditions of undertakings, the survival of which is difficult. In other words, this regulation widens the scope of the choices made by the social partners so that they can formulate in free negotiations specific working and remuneration conditions in specific enterprises which prove to be particularly difficult, so that they cannot respond to the functioning of sectoral labour contracts. In particular for undertakings referred to in Article 53, which are in bankruptcy, bankruptcy or non-judicial conciliation arrangements. Here, Mr Loverdos also refers to the issue of unconstitutionality, namely that clear and concrete legislative powers are not contained. In this respect, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the following is to be said: companies must be in a difficult economic situation and are in particular under special circumstances, i.e. a regime of bankruptcy, bankruptcy or an out-of-court settlement. In other words, there is an automatic reference to the clear and specific terms of those provisions, under which an undertaking may be placed under bankruptcy or bankruptcy procedure or out-of-court settlement. So the delegation is quite clear, because it refers to the criteria that are strictly and legally defined, so that the joint legislature can judge and, of course, judge by the parties, by the social partners, but also by the courts, if necessary and present, which companies are involved. Consequently, the criteria are fully defined by the provisions of the laws which - I repeat - define the conditions for going into this regime and do not raise any question of the unconstitutionality of these provisions, which, Mr President, I must say, are fully in line with both the letter and the spirit of Article 22 of the Constitution, and in particular with Article 5 of the Constitution for the reasons I have mentioned and do not want to repeat, and concern the collective possibility of negotiating and strengthening, in particular, workers in particular, to negotiate conditions and working conditions. Now, as far as Article 57 is concerned, I think that they either read and did not understand or understand and misinterpreted the decision of the Council of State. This decision, in particular the provisions of Article 57, is not in breach of Article 22. Article 22, even by simple reading, shows that it wants the joint legislator to lay down rules restricting the referral to arbitration, which is a last resort to resolving collective disputes. Both the theory, in which I have had a little time, Mr President, to look back, as well as the taut case-law of the Council of State, accepts that the legislator is the primary body of competence for matters relating to industrial relations. The legislator must intervene as long as his intervention is necessary for the treatment and service of a more general interest, which is constitutionally guaranteed and is different from that - that is, differently - served by collective autonomy. This means that the institution of arbitration must function as an alternative and as a last resort means of resolving the dispute. With this in mind, then, and taking into account the recent recommendations made by the International Labour Organisation, there is the possibility of unilateral recourse to arbitration as a last resort in strictly defined cases, which are laid down in the law and with criteria that are absolutely specific, defined by law, and I repeat that very strictly. All this, why are they set? In order to preserve an overriding public interest. We must also take into account here - and I say this for those who are not legal - and the limits of judicial control. What has the Council of State accepted? What are the limits of judicial review? It is the overrun and the error in the assessment of the public interest. So the Supreme Court's judgment is whether there is any error in overcoming the public interest. Here too, Mr President, the constitutional criteria are quite clear. And the legal criteria are laid down and I refer to Article 25 of the Constitution, the principle of proportionality. This will also be overthrown by the Council of State, and we must also bear in mind, as a guiding principle of whether the Council of State is serving a greater public interest. Therefore, taking into account what I have said, the provision of Article 57 does not only contravene the case-law of the Council of State, but is fully in line with it and there is no problem of constitutionality. Both objections must be rejected as unfounded. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u102	Thank you. Please, which Presidents of Parliament or Parliamentary Representatives want to speak? From what I can see, Mr. Velopoulos, Mr. Pafilis, Mr. Gregoriadis and Mr. Janakopoulos. The Chairpersons of the Parliamentary Groups are presided over. Here, Mr. Velopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President. Here we have a confrontation, between the idea of law is the right of the boss and the law is the right of the worker. That's the idea. That's the conflict. Some voter service, they do the bosses' service, so we can tell them the way things are. And you know, it is hypocritical for some to call on the Council of State today, Mr President, because there have been decisions by the Council of State for too many years that have not been implemented. Give an example. The fake maggots in Thrace. Decision of the Council of State for a long time, which neither the SYRIZA has implemented nor the New Democracy. So the invoking of the Council of State as legitimate arguments is lame anyway. Because the Council of State has decided on many things, on wages and pensions, and no one has heard to date. Let's actually go. We have devastated the Constitution and we come to the Greek Parliament to talk about unconstitutionality. If you see what decisions have been made over the last ten years, I honestly say this, it is rather a crook to discuss the unconstitutionality of certain provisions or laws. When were they implemented? I ask everyone in this House when the decisions of the Council of State were implemented when they were at the expense of some of the choices made by the European Union or even the fake ones? Never. So what do we say today, then, to implement what the Council of State says? After all, Mr President, the Council of State is not a constitutional court. The Council does not decide to legislate, do not mock. The opinion is his suggestion, and everyone interprets it as they wish. The lawyers come in here, you hear a lawyer, he tells you well, you hear the other lawyer, he tells you well, and you wonder what's going on here? Everyone's right? Well, not everyone can be right, Mr President. Something's wrong. The truth is one. Vote they do, service they do. That's the reality. Do you want to solve this? Make a constitutional court decide judges what is constitutional and what is not. The rest is to fish in the blurred waters of anti-constitutionality and vote on the workers' back. We cannot fall into this game, Mr President - we are saying it clearly - and let the government legislate properly at some point so that we do not have these things in here. Everyone votes for their party clientele a game. Unfortunately, we cannot follow that logic.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, you may be right, but a constitutional court is not provided for. But not with the Review, so there is an incidental review of all the courts.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u105	We must, Mr President, do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u106	Okay, that's a reality, we won't change it now. Moreover, the case law of the Court of Cassation in the work of the Ice Bay is rich in these matters and they will all find their way.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u107	We're the only country without a constitutional court.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u108	Mr. Pallis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u109	First of all, I would like to say that such a bill is unacceptable in two days' time and we have put it. What regularity are you telling us? But is that possible? What bill has been discussed in the last few years on the principle and on the articles? None. That is what we have also proposed in the Conference of Presidents. It is not possible with so many articles and so important articles to have the debate within two days with the noose on the neck of all the speakers. This is unacceptable and is deliberately done by this government, and the appropriateness is that the worker does not know exactly what it is about, because it is a storm. It is always unconstitutional to the workers, in the sense of the wording of the Constitution, and not something that has been heard here and which is, of course, very serious arguments. For example, excluding workers from collective agreements to firms in difficulty. Can I tell you a few businesses in a difficult situation where workers are unpaid and claiming and the owners are millionaires? There are too many of them, not all of them, except for a few small and medium-sized enterprises. That's right. Who's paying her? The worker. Yes or no? When he has profits, why don't you obligate him to give him 10% of the employee by law? It's a classic and tough bill. It completes everything that's happened before. Whatever the world won with hard and bloody struggles, all the previous ones took it back, and now it's a final blow. We therefore say that this is the essence of the matter and that is why you are avoiding the debate. Still, you know you won't make it. A warning. Secondly, as far as the Constitution is concerned, we have been placed too many times on the issues of the Constitution. It's an urban constitution. There are general positive declarations under the pressure of the movement, but governments are implementing exactly the opposite of what the general declaration says that may seem positive. For example, it says that all employees of independent sex, etc. are they entitled to equal pay for equal work? Yes or no? So where does it fit to have ten different contracts and ten different wages on those who work exactly the same? Is that constitutional when you exclude those who have financial problems? No, it's not. Just stuff, so people can understand. Because you say they don't, they won't be paid like the rest of the people who offer the same job. And it says it on 22.1. So they interpret it as they want. This hypocrisy must be stopped. Third matter. Who decides whether a bill or whether an article is a constitutional or anti-constitutional? One hundred and fifty. Yes or no? Don't they judge? In other words, a majority in government that is also a minority of the people. Very large minority. If we make an account, 23% are them, so were the previous ones. They decide, the hundred fifty one. Is the donkey flying? He's flying. They raise their hand, fly and play tricks in the air, showcases. So this objection of unconstitutionalism has a meaning: let the world know and understand what is happening, what you are doing with the Constitution, what the governments are doing and how the Constitution is formulated. We therefore say that all the provisions concerning workers are unconstitutional. You're all talking about free negotiations. Well, aren't you embarrassed? What free negotiation? Who determines the minimum wage in the National General Association of Labour? The Ministry. He's interfering here now. Is that a constitutional thing? It abolishes the autonomy of the trade unions. That's what he's doing with the records and all those plans that are there. Is that a constitutional thing? Where is he from? So I ask you guys what you're talking about. I'm not talking about socialism. I am talking about capitalism here, about the struggle that is taking place in this context, with the civil constitution, etc. Are these constitutionally, to "test" the world, suddenly to cut off their wages and send them to hell all these years? Where are they from? What right are you doing it with? You're doing it to all of you, because one is the look of this bill, just like the others. On the one hand, you say 'take everything' to capital, etc., all restrictions are lifted, you give warm money, incredible money to be paid, tax sold, etc., as our rapporteur has said, and on the other hand, you break the workers to be modern slaves. That's the bill. That is why we say that all the provisions relating to workers' issues, in our view, are unconstitutional. We therefore also support these objections with different considerations and not because the Minister - I say it for Mr Loverdos - will decide. Why, if others decide and exclude whole businesses, then they are fine? Because that's what's gonna happen. It will not be the Minister, it will set up a committee, and it will be done and it will be presented as a collective decision. That is what I wanted to say, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr. Paphie. The Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, Mr Gregoriadis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Well said, Mr. Paphis. In fact, "the donkey is flying" with a completely ill, manifestly, deviously ill-majority that represents the majority. Every time - you are not an exception, you are a rule - decide anyone who governs this place illegally, obviously, since there is no simple analogue, that the Constitution can pass according to its will, according to its tastes. In our view, therefore, all the articles, which have just been raised against unconstitutionalism, are completely and manifestly unconstitutional, as they are obviously opposed to Article 22 of our Constitution, which protects both work and all working relations. But that's not all. In fact, the core of rights is being affected and this is not simply limited, since both collective agreements and referral to arbitration are becoming completely obsolete, while leaving workers essentially without any employment rights and not just less, as we had used to do so up to now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u112	Thank you. Mr Janakopoulos, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. I want to make two comments. A comment on the issue of the specialty of the authorisation granted to the Minister of Labour. Here I would like to say: The bill is very unclear in this respect, as it does not only speak of businesses which can be excluded from the process of expanding the sectoral collective agreement or from the more favourable regulation of the sectoral collective agreement, only if we have companies that are in bankruptcy, bankruptcy or which are in a process of economic consolidation. On the contrary, the bill says that these enterprises facing economic problems are primarily enterprises in bankruptcy, bankruptcy or economic reorganisation, which means that there are other enterprises facing financial problems and on the basis of the provisions of the bill can be determined by a decision of the Minister of Labour, after the opinion of the Labour Council. This means that the argument, according to which there is no specificity of the authorisation, is correct. However, the crucial issue of unconstitutionalism, as the SYRIZA parliamentary group has said, is related to unilateral referral to arbitration. It is known that the New Democracy is not the first time that it has chosen to circumvent, if you like, the constitutional requirement relating to the possibility of workers normally resorting unilaterally to arbitration, when, on the part of the employer, there is a bad attitude to collective bargaining and so, if you like, to the process of signing either sectoral, homogeneous or operational contract of employment. On the contrary, Mr Brutsis has attempted this in 2014 and then the Council of State came up with demands from the International Monetary Fund, which he seems not to need too much, to get into this legislature, but he can do everything very comfortably and on his own. I mean, what Thompsen, what Brutsi, what an International Monetary Fund, what a Mitsotakis. In any case, Mr Georgiadis said so, who is today introducing part of the bill concerning his ministry. Because, as Mr Kastanides has said, we have a number of smugglers in this government, namely people who mainly legislate through other ministers. I say, therefore, that Mr Brutsis did not need the International Monetary Fund to try to circumvent, not only the Constitution, but also this specific decision of the Council of State, which at that time seemed to be a brake on his need to serve the interests of the employer in a way that is more favourable. Mr Brutsis should normally not be called the Minister of Labour, he should be called the Minister of Labour. It is doing the tribute to BSE at the moment, which has been trying to abolish this crucial right of workers to unilaterally refer to arbitration when a collective agreement cannot be signed. So I say that the arguments of the Council of State are very clear. But be careful, you're doing something more. What do you think? You say that unilateral referral to arbitration is entitled to ask either the employer or the worker only in cases where this is justified by a higher public interest. Watch out here with what legal stunt we're dealing with. Usually, does it happen when the public interest is invoked? When we have a conflict of rights, to see how these rights will be weighed and how we will end up in practice, in any case, a decision on how these rights should come and balance in practical life. What do we got here? In the public interest, there is talk of the birth of the right and not of its weighting with another right. Only where the public interest is served shall the right of unilateral referral to arbitration arise. And who would judge that? Of course, the Minister for Labour, who has been abducted by the rapporteur of the Communist Party, said earlier that he will shortly be claiming to be in the general assembly of workers, to guide them in relation to the attitude that they should take and whether they should move towards agreement with employers or not. I hope Mr Brutsis will be present at general meetings. In any case, his resignation in the past has tended to be there, though not evidently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr. Janakopoulos. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theories after taking part in the educational program "The King and the Revolution" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty students and students and three teachers from 49th General High School of Athens. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I now ask the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Loverdos, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u115	Mr President, I have three remarks to make which are really short. The first relates to what my colleague from New Democracy, Mr Buga, has said, and I am forced to comment on it even though, ladies and gentlemen, the objections of constitutionality are a legal process, but with political features, since we are talking about legal instruments in this House, which is not just a lawyer. So we're avoiding legalism. But when we are opposed to arguments of an absolute legal nature, we too have to comment on them and answer them. If the honourable Member reads Rule 53(8), he will see that there, in cases of divergence from the rule of collective bargaining, clear criteria are laid down on the basis of which a problem arises, such as foreclosure and so forth, it defines them as 'predominantly'. So the Minister has room after the "primarily", to determine what the next, derivative criteria are on the basis of which he will consider that an enterprise is facing financial problems and must therefore deviate from collective bargaining and collective agreements. So Article 43(2), which stipulates the need for specialization - and I have pre-empted it - and the title of the subject is not a speciality, my dear colleague, and, of course, Article 22 of the Constitution, which defines the negotiations and conventions. I have not been understood, and I have been opposed to legacy arguments. The basic argument, however, is what I repeat now, Mr President. Secondly, the Greek Solution shows today to the House that the decisions of the Council of State are advisory. This is beyond any legal reality and any logic. It must also say that there are special cases where its decisions are linked to the country's economic situation and therefore the joint legislator and the government suggestion must find how they are implemented. Finally, Mr Pafilis, the Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party, whenever, Mr President, an objection of anti-constitutionality and objections are raised, speaks of 'pretextual objections'. His right, of course, obviously, but I have two things to oppose him. The first is that we, in the previous period of Parliament and now, as you will see, will be appallingly opposed. We are not a party that wants to turn this House into a court of law.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u116	You didn't hear me well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u117	I heard it very well, and I heard you're done. Secondly, the concept of constitutional objections does not only concern the courts, Mr Colleague. It is about every official interpreter of the Constitution. An official interpreter of the Constitution is obviously Parliament, but he is collective. So the majority will count here. And when we raise an issue that so much has dealt with the case-law and so many actions of the administration are cancelled, because the laws of the administration are unauthorised, instead of changing the Constitution and simplifying it, as we in the previous parliament have proposed, but there were no ears to listen, we stayed in the constitutional provision of 43.2 as it stands. Alas, if we see a provision that is not specific not to suggest it. Although you consider this to be a pretext in the logic of demagogy, it is not our fault, it is the mistaken understanding that you have made - if I may say so - the objection of unconstitutionality. You can talk to me about a top issue where there is a legal argument, with you I will be with you, but tell me that we do not have the possibility and that we are prepared to demonstrate, where we can demonstrate it, that a provision giving authority, in essence, carries legal powers from the elected people, from the parliament entrusted, to the executive, is not right. That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u118	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u119	Mr President, I would also like the floor for ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u120	There's no personal matter. Do you want to make it clear? So what altered the contents of what you said? Because there is this provision, according to which, when the content of the speaker is altered, the reason may exceptionally be given.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u121	Okay, but I think the living process requires an answer immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u122	All right, you have the floor, Mr. Buga, and then Mr. Paphis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u123	I would therefore like to say to Mr Loverdo, in response to what he said - and I oppose the accusation that I have been accused of legalism, because I have just read the provision and said my opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u124	The trend, not the accusation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u125	All right, then, with the clarification that this is a trend. So I just read the order and said my opinion. And I must say, Mr President, in reply to this in substance, that the provision in Article 43 of the Constitution invoked by my colleague requires a special mandate and that the limits of the delegation be deleted. Special authorisation cannot be a case, my colleague. Consequently, the specialty that the Constitution wants in this case exists. It refers to a specific category of cases, which are defined by the provision of Article 53, with a strict framework, and what I said is that the framework and criteria are even clearer, because it refers to laws which clearly define the conditions for a company to be subject to the scheme referred to in the provision. So that can't make her any more specific. It is within the framework of the constitutional provision and there is no question of constitutionality. That is what I said and I repeat, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u126	Good. Mr. Pachilis has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u127	I would like to clarify, because I imagine that Mr Loverdos understands and perhaps he has not noticed, that I said this: we say that it is the whole exception, the whole exception, and not the Minister's decision. There was no one on that. Is this true or isn't it? Does the Constitution say equal pay for equal work? Article 22(2). Does it say it or not? Is this abolished with the exception? Because at the next factory - to talk like that - that's not a problem, it's gonna say 700 euros and that's what the Minister's gonna do, and it's gonna be up to it. Or blackmail the workers. So it's the exception to an anti-constitutional, yes or no? Are they other anti-constitutional? I put that all the articles, if we want to make a real interpretation, because everyone's interpretation does it the way they want. That was our position. Secondly, it would be very interesting - and one must do so - to consider what has been discussed about unconstitutionalism in the House. Not everything. What's he gonna find? In a large part, when one party is government, it's constitutional, when the other one changes and comes, the other one says they're unconstitutional and when the next comes in, it turns right backwards. There are piles of examples. That's why I'm talking about interpretation of 151. I can tell you features, even in laws that have taken place all this time. That's why we say it's hypocritical, in that sense. When you're in opposition, it's unconstitutional, and when you become government it becomes constitutional.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u128	For this reason, the courts give guidance to the legislator for provisions do not commit him. He just deals with it, doesn't commit. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a statement here. I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-seven students and students as well as three educational attendants from the Municipal School of Monemvasia. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Please have the floor, Mr Spyridon - Panagiotis (Spilio) Lebanese.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. In practical terms, in the context of this debate on unconstitutionalism, we have heard one main criticism today, that this draft law, 'Investing in Greece', is not developmental. The problem with this position is that people who eject it do not realize what is developmental, because if they understood, they would have brought growth in the previous years. In order for growth to come, we do not just make a law that we are subsidising, so much here, but we have to face problems with bureaucracy, with justice and with workers' rights - and we regulate - the sustainability of businesses. The many speakers, who have been written, prove exactly this, that this bill opens horizons, we have turned all over Greece, we have analysed it to the productive bodies, they have come here and have all been placed, but everyone, apart from organized interests and small-scale votes, was positive. It is precisely about the fact that many speakers want to place themselves on this new idea of growth in the country. With regard to unconstitutionalism, we - and I think that is clear, it has been heard in all fora - do not abolish collective negotiations or even limit them. Our aim is to protect the workers of enterprises who have truly proven financial problems. We are therefore fighting to save these businesses first, because what colleagues on the left do not understand is that in order to be able to protect workers, in order to be able to increase the wages of workers, there must first be workers and, if there are to be employees, there must be businesses. So if all the companies close down, as they've been strung up in our country in recent years, there won't be any workers. If you understand that, we could all agree together and move on. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Calm down! Calm down. As you saw, we were calm and we heard you. Let us talk, too. This is democracy. We have a right to say our opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u130	Come on, come on. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u131	At the same time, we do not dismantle the principles of expansion, as was heard before the most favourable regulation. We are simply giving life - as I said before - to a lame entrepreneurship, according to - and this will be stressed many times in here today - with the best European reality. As far as the legal argument is concerned, I think it was quite right from the corollary, Mr Buga. He properly analyzed and placed for everything, which the two sayings came to raise an issue of unconstitutionality. I would like to make two small comments, one is for Mr Pafilis: if we understood well - if you would excuse me if I did not understand it - you are judging our political system as an anti-constitutional one. What we are saying is that this is parliamentary democracy, we respect the view you take...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u132	It's a good constitutional thing. I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u133	From there on, let us function in democracy and if you want your speakers to tell us later this system, which you so passionately support where it has worked in the world, where it has brought growth, which has really protected all the workers. As far as Mr Janakopoulos is concerned, his legal arguments were the same as Mrs Ahtsoglou. For some reason she wanted to repeat her to understand her better or perhaps help her in this. He also expressed a genius about the Minister of Labour that...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u134	You're too cheap!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u135	As cheap as his genius for the Minister of Labour is that he is a Minister of Labour. It is absolutely unworthy of an answer. It is a given - and this is our principle - that we will be judged by the effectiveness, that this bill and these arrangements proposed by the Minister of Labour have been accepted by the vast majority of the Greek people, apart from the organized interests of some trade unions. We already see results. This is what the Greek people see and, in any case, we will be judged at the end of this course and when this bill starts to apply, in practice from our results and then we will talk again. As regards your overall position, I would like within these two days, which will be rich in controversy, to come and tell us what our positions are, what this was your development bill instead of continuing to stumbling, problems and delays. Your objective - and above all the military opposition - is one, not to be able to move forward in development, not to apply the mandate of the Greek people, which is to leave behind the yesterday to which you brought the situation on the edge of the cliff and move the country forward. It is clear from these considerations that we consider that the anti-constitutional proposals do not stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr Levane. I would ask the Minister for Development to speak, but please, Minister, you will be restricted in accordance with Article 100(2) only to unconstitutionalism.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u137	We didn't raise the issue of the Minister of Development.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u138	Yes, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to place myself on whether or not the articles are politically and developmentally correct, for which we will have the normal debate on the bill. We are discussing a specific issue here if the objection of unconstitutionality applies.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u139	We didn't put a point on you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u140	I am the draftsman of the bill, Mr. Loverdos, and I sign it. If I thought there was an unconstitutional provision, I wouldn't sign it. Obviously, I'm defending the entire bill. We read from the Constitution: Article 22(2), ‘by law, the general terms of employment supplemented by collective labour agreements shall be defined and concluded by free negotiations and, if they fail, by the rules laid down by arbitration’. In a simple reading of the article in the Constitution, which we are discussing, it is quite clear that the constitutional legislature allows the joint legislature to define the rules, because otherwise Mr Loverdo would not speak of the rules of arbitration. It is therefore obvious - to reach agreement slowly as people - that the joint legislator can define the rules of arbitration. I am referring to Articles 57 now and I will come to Article 53-56, which is the special objection of the Change Movement. So what's the charge? That the government acts unconstitutionally. While the legislator allows the government to define the rules and we are now talking about the decisions of the Council of State. The decision of the Council of State, which you invoke, which is true, to what is it referring to? In the complete abolition of the ODR. To the fullest. What did the Council of State consider? Since the Constitution provides for the referral to arbitration by the rules laid down by the joint legislature, the total abolition of the OME is unconstitutional. Very good. Indeed, totalitarianism is unconstitutional, gentlemen of KINAL. When was this total abolition of the FIFG for which the Council of State decided to be unconstitutional? I am presenting for the Minutes of Parliament, sheet 38, 28 February 2012, Act of Ministerial Council. These are Articles 3, 4 and 5. I'll give it to the Minutes. Excuse me, gentlemen of KINAL - and then I come to SYRIZA - were you ministers in the government in February 2012? So you signed the major, the complete abolition of the OMD as a constitutional right, and now it bothers you with the lasson, the rules?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u141	I said that. You signed it. We were running back then.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u142	Excuse me, the fact that you said it, Mr Loverdo - and you know how much I appreciate you - does not deny that we are here in an exercise of irrationality. Why can't you seriously say as KINAL, PASOK, Democratic Order, Olive, whatever you want, that you can legislate the major as a constitutional, but that it bothers you to be a anti-constitutional. Excuse me, I'm tabling this for the Minutes of the House. It's absurd. [[At this point, the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr.Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So now let's go to SYRIZA. As far as Article 57 is concerned, it was also explained by the Minister first of all as to whether an issue of unconstitutionality was raised. I repeat that Article 22 lays down rules. The rules refer to the ordinary legislature. What are the rules in this case? The adoption by the Government of the recommendation of the International Labour Organisation, 'ILO'. Gentlemen of SYRIZA, for four and a half years in this House you have declared him "ILO" about as the owner of world wisdom and now disturbs you that the Mitsotakis Government adopts the recommendation of "ILO" for arbitration? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] All right, and hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, must have some limits in that country. With regard to the designations that I have heard for my colleague, SYRIZA, Minister of Labour, that he is "Minister of Labour", ladies and gentlemen, you know - and I am addressing the new Members of this House - the SYRIZA Government and the Minister of Labour of SYRIZA, Mrs Ahtsoglou, is the first Minister in the history of the Greek state that established the SBE, the Association of Industries of Northern Greece. In other words, BSE was not enough, it was not enough for BSE to speak as a social body with the government! They wanted more industrialists in the conversation! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So when, gentlemen of SYRIZA, you told us as a government that we need to listen more and more to industrialists, now to come to the House and to blame Brutsis as "Minister of Labour", I'm sorry, it goes a lot! Finally, just one comment to my colleague Mr Janakopoulos, who spoke about the illegality of the report. Firstly, Mr Janakopoulos, I imagine I wouldn't have to bring to Parliament the dozens of inter-ministerial bills brought by your government - tens not one - where for some strange reason then you wouldn't mind being inter-ministerial and multi-branded, but you suddenly mind today. However, I am going to go beyond that because I will explain it in my main speech. But you will allow me to comment. Not even smuggling! There are no smugglers, Mr. Janakopoulos, as you have explained so many times! Don't insult us like that! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The bill is fine in constitutional terms and I call on colleagues to support its constitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u143	Mr President, I would like to say one sentence. Not even 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u144	Because the other two spoke before, I would like to give you the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u145	Mr President, he has spoken twice, three times.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u146	As a representative and as saying in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u147	That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u148	All right, people aren't lost! The debate is taking place at a good level. Let it go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u149	I have two comments to make, very briefly, to Mr Georgiadis. First of all, I should like to say to him that the date he read is the date of the hardest phases that the Hellenic Republic passed after the Civil War, when the ministers were not in the character of executive members, as they have today. They had the character of people who were in very special and cruel conditions. Then there was a memorandum. Then there was the crisis, economic, institutional and social. Now, Minister, what is there, forcing you to cross the line of the constitution. It's my first point and my question. Secondly, you have tabled a document as if you had not listened. I told you, I've never had a memory loss. I remember everything very well. But you forgot that to the government you mentioned, you were a State Secretary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u150	You see, sometimes, tolerance! The debate began at a very good level, with Mr Kastanidis criticizing mild tone, not ruining now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u151	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u152	You have the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u153	Mr Colleague, a few little remarks. Of course the conditions for 2012 were extremely special. I do not remember, however, any of us saying at the time that the Constitution was being violated in his knowledge. On the contrary, we said what we were doing was within the Constitution. And I remember very well that the Council of State then considered that the first memorandum, yours, that it was constitutional and not unconstitutional. Never can a Member of Parliament say that I 'in my knowledge violate the Constitution', because it would be a sworn oath. I've never done it either. However, I repeat: what is the point of criticism that we are debating now? When you have legislated the major one, you can't mind the shilling, and I'm sure I'm saying now that no particular treaty needs to exist today because what we're doing is not unconstitutional. So no treaty pushes us to even go to the limits of the Constitution. What we are legislating is completely constitutional. Proof - be careful, why did SYRIZA also take the floor to support your objection of unconstitutionality in the article on collective bargaining, while they objected only to the law, to Article 57 and to the issue of unilateral referral to arbitration - is that for four years SYRIZA had not maintained the freezing of collective bargaining? When did the freeze stop? Since August 2018. So for four years SYRIZA has been in his knowledge violated by the Constitution? So, in order not to go into strange shames, it is clear that the Constitution is not in breach of these two provisions, precisely because Article 22(2) gives the joint legislature the right to lay down the rules, which we are doing. Finally, for reasons of history alone, on February 28, 2012, I was nothing. I also resigned from a Member and from a Minister, and I was at home, Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u154	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u155	For the equality of weapons, half a minute, and we're done. The debate is taking place at a high level. Please don't ruin her.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u156	On a high level. I am not going to go into the political debate at all, nor am I going to comment on some colleagues' positions which, in my opinion, go beyond the limits of decency. Only one answer to the legal question to the Minister is that it is important to clarify exactly what Article 22 of the Constitution says.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u157	Pages have been written on pages on Article 22.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u158	I am specific and am reading the article: 'The general terms of work are laid down by law - take note, Mr Georgiadis, because it is important - which are supplemented by collective agreements of free collective bargaining, and if they fail to comply with the general terms of work, they are supplemented by the rules laid down in arbitration'. So the Constitution in this article does not tell you that you can lay rules as legislator for how arbitration works. There is, in other words, no authorisation from the constitutional legislature to you to draw up an implementing law. What he says is that the law you draw up, namely the general terms of work, is supplemented by the rules of arbitration. In short, Mr Georgiadis, you have completely misinterpreted the Constitution and whoever has the least relationship with even his grammar interpretation understands that all you have done is to completely distort the very clear constitutional provision, that is to say, to read other than others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate under Article 100(2) of the Constitution has been concluded on the two objections of unconstitutionalism which have been raised. Accepting the objection of anti-constitutionalism of Articles 53(8), 55, 56(4) and 57, tabled by colleagues from the Change Movement, i.e. that these articles are not in accordance with the Constitution, I would ask that they be raised. [[Responding to the objection]] Apparently the fewer were raised. The objection of unconstitutionality is therefore rejected. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Group also objected to anti-constitutionalism for Article 57 of the bill. If we accept the objection of unconstitutionality under Article 57, i.e. that it is not in accordance with the Constitution, I would ask them to rise. [[Responding to the objection]] Apparently the fewer were raised. The objection of unconstitutionality is therefore rejected. It is clear that the required number of Members from the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure has not been raised and therefore the objections of unconstitutionality are rejected. We shall now proceed to the list of speakers. I would ask that we keep the time, so that most Members can speak. Mr Christos Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u160	The Minister said that the Constitution lays down rules, except that they are harmonized according to the choices of large capital. The bill incorporates all the claims of business groups, not only those that SYRIZA has not satisfied, 32% during BSE, but also other young people who are willing to satisfy. The memorials are continuing. The rights of BSE are considered pathogens of the past. This logic is served by everyone, as is demonstrated by the anti-government policy that you have implemented and implemented. The New Democracy, as a genuine representative of the capital, abolishes the'sheet of figurative rights' which remains in labour law. You are coming to finish the most important conquest of the working class, the collective agreements, which are based on the effort to organise and collect workers by sector and on better conditions for pay and work. Today's Minister for Labour has a well-known history. We can say that the killer returns to the crime scene. The evacuation of operational contracts with associations of persons from two hundred thirty before 2012 in the ninety-seventh six in 2012 was Mr. Brutsi's work. Thus, he effectively implemented the Act of Ministerial Council 6/2012 and reduced the salaries to EUR 586 and EUR 511 respectively for young people. Your commitment to BSE, SETE and the other representatives of business groups is the legality you have brought: To prevail the business contracts, the majority of which are signed by associations of individuals, vis-à-vis sectors and local and regional authorities, to prevail over the sectors. In other words, the most favourable thing for the employer must prevail. You implement the new commitment to the representatives of business groups, to reduce the average wage level to the minimum level of EUR 650. That is what you want to do. While strengthening this tool of employers, the associations of persons, at the same time hit workers' organisations. Persons' associations are created mainly by the employer, with the participation and intense intervention of managers, employers' people, and it is no coincidence that almost all lead the employer's people and make use of the reactionary legislative framework. On the other hand, the formation of unions by workers is persecuted by the employer. There are few redundancies to join the unions. Terrorism, which strengthens and prevents participation in workers' organizations. That is what you are strengthening, and not, as you hypocritically claim, you are interested in trade union density. That is why you are supporting the forces of government and employers' union, the forces of consensus in anti-government policy. That is why you are supporting the illusions, the dishonesty of your leading forces in the labour movement, to ensure, together with the employer, control of the trade unions. You are blocking the practices of the mafia and you are claiming that there was no conference in the GFCM because the PAME reacted. Any disputed protection for those who claimed even the minimum rights that have been effectively ending. It is characteristic that in the individual contract a worker to be recruited is required to declare whether he is a member of a union. This is not what the employer is doing in order to positively assess the worker, but rather as an element of not hiring him. The register you're establishing will now be the list in the hands of business groups, in order to be exempted in time from unwanted persons, from those who are not subject to the employer's wanting, in his arbitrary state. You call on democracy while giving 'weapons' to strengthen terrorism. With your own laws, you want any minimum freedoms to stop at the entrances of businesses, factories. In addition, the register provides for data such as the statutes of the organisation. What does the Ministry want to do with the organization's statute? That's right, to interfere and control the operation of the syndicate. That's why he wants it. Whoever has a legitimate interest cannot take the statute of a union from the Court of First Instance? Financial statements should be kept in the register, if government funding exists. Funding by the OAED is a resource for the workers, which is retained and not attributed as necessary. You give it to those who put their backs to ensure social society. The Minister will keep the "black" list of trade unions, such as in the 1970s, to give it to any employer, to avoid riots, those who claim it. He will decide where information on the register will be provided. Because it is a crucial issue for employers, take Mr Bogdano as well as Mr Bogdanos who specializes in informant. While creating terms of suffocating control of unions, you come to set banning conditions on the right of strike: the universal electronic vote on decisions of general assembly and, in particular, on a strike decision, by continuing the effort of SYRIZA, which legislated 50% + 1 and the "lock out" of employers. You want to fight further the live participation of the workers themselves in the general assemblies and in every mass process. You want to impose the work peace on the front. That's what you want to do. Mr Brutsis, we remind you of the treatment of strikes from capital and governments in the 1970s, against the first anti-corruption law, Law 330/1974. At that time, half of the strikes were demanding the reintegration of sacked trade unionists and the abolition of the lifting of terrorist measures on the part of the employer. Fifteen thousand fired, for claiming the three years 1976-1979. The BSE then had issued a black list, in 1976, with the names of dismissals fired in order not to be reinstated. Mr. Brutsi, you voted for the law in your previous term, which was accepted by SYRIZA and became the Brutsi-Achtsoglou law, which abolishes the possibility of negotiating for the minimum wage. This will be defined by the Minister at the acceptable limits of employers' representatives. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, George Lambroulis, takes over the President's seat.]] What national collective agreement are you talking about? Obviously for the one you decide and will have the signature of the government and employers' union of the GSE group that supports it and is the fifth pillar in the labour movement. With the bill you're expanding the attack on collective agreements. You want to ensure that the business groups are fully secure. You claim employers' organisations, canceling the possibility of using workers to the OMD, so that they do not come to the negotiations and, furthermore, that there is no possibility for the OMD. But even if it is possible to have a collective agreement, the bill introduces exceptions to their application to companies with financial problems. Really, is there a business that doesn't raise financial difficulties? By Ministerial Decision will specify the criteria for exempted enterprises. It will specify the categories of conditions of collective agreements exempted for companies and a whole range of others. The Minister will become the absolute lord.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u161	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u162	Yes, Mr. President. You are talking about documentation of the impact on competitiveness, so that the contract can be signed. Isn't this the vehicle so that no collective labour contract is extended? Even if a federation overcomes the obstacles, organize the struggle, sit down the employers at the negotiating table and everything you put in, it comes up against the documentation. There can be no collective agreement with these arrangements. But indeed my time is over, although I would like to say a lot more about the collective agreements, which is the main theme of this bill. You hand over to the employer north to the workers, without conditions of pay and work. The labour movement doesn't stay with the hands crossed. Already tomorrow there will be a rally and we call, on the occasion of the debate, on the workers as a whole to fill the streets of Athens, Thessaloniki, every city to express their opposition to this bill brought by the government and abolish this right to collective bargaining and hit the workers' organizations themselves and the strike weapon.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u163	Before we give the floor to Mr. Stamenitis, the Minister of National Defence will speak. Mr Panagiotopoulos, to develop an amendment he has tabled. Immediately after the speech you will take, Mr. Stamenitis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr President. I shall speak briefly because they are waiting to speak to colleagues and we must always respect that. I have come to support an amendment from the Ministry of National Defence introduced into this bill, and I think it should be voted on. Among other things, it is a charitable amendment, Mr Katsotis, because it covers the payroll costs of all the workers in the two shipyards in the country carrying out programmes of the Hellenic Navy, Scaramaga and Elefsina, even for those workers who are not employed in the implementation of this programme in each shipyard. It therefore ensures a working life and in fact gives a time to continue the operation of the shipyards, while the process of finding an investor that we hope will come and will ensure the continuation of the two major shipyards in the country as a whole. So this amendment, under number 63/13, contains three provisions, which I think should be voted on - and the amendment in whole - for three reasons: firstly, it has an urgent nature, since it actually has a situation that needs to be resolved immediately, because the Navy programmes in the two shipyards have expired on 31 September. We had already contacted the relevant ministries, but the legislative work and all these procedural delays have brought us here today, to end both the concern of the workers and the uncertainty about the extension of the programme. The second reason is that there is a developmental character in all three provisions and therefore there is a relevance to this draft law. As far as the two shipyards are concerned, this is an extension of a programme on behalf of the Hellenic Navy. In Scaramaga we have continued to work in four submarines and in Elefsina we have completed the construction of two fireflies, no. 6 and 7. The first turnout is in the final tests and the second will be delivered to the Navy in 2020. The third reason is that for at least these two provisions, the programmes in the shipyards, there is a direct positive impact on the Armed Forces and especially on the Navy. The operational readiness of the Navy is increasing immediately with the completion of these programmes. As I said, in the first two provisions, it is a question of completing the four-by-sea project in Scaramaga and two-pilot missiles in Elefsina. This also involves the allocation of appropriations for this extension, work on all these vessels, mainly engines, weapons, patrols, antennas and electronics. Work is needed to complete these vessels and deliver them to the Navy, which is the last stage. Moreover, a time credit is given - as I have told you - so that the shipyards continue to work, workers continue to work and, in the interim, to explore the possibilities of investing in the shipyards. The third provision concerns the change in the composition of the Board of Directors of the War Museum, so as to strengthen its extroversion and thus the possibility of being more visitable, more attractive to visitors, to increase the movement in the War Museum that is - if you like - the main expression of the expression of strategic history in our country. However, this must also be made more visiting to the general public. The three-year term remains. The President, the two Vice-Presidents and the four advisors shall remain the number. But the possibility of this amendment being chosen in the Board is allowed. The War Museum, not only military in active or retired, as was the case until first, but also distinguished scientists. We believe that it will be possible to attract the administration of the War Museum and specialist scientists who can further develop their function and activity, making it a point of attracting visitors to those who want - and there are many - to know the full and certainly glorious military history of our country. These are the three individual provisions. They also come to an amendment for economic reasons. I think they should be voted on by Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, a group of fifteen students from the International Centre for Greek and Mediterranean Studies and a group of eight educated lawyers from the Court of Justice MARBURG. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Stamenitis Dionysius has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u166	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in plenary the draft of the Ministry of Development and Investment entitled 'Investing in Greece', following a thorough dialogue between the parties of the Greek Parliament and the bodies involved in the relevant committees, which enabled all parties to listen to, to submit proposals and to provide the necessary explanations and clarifications where needed. The importance of the draft law is important and multiple. After all, this is reflected in its provisions which include adjustments from the entire range of government. We are legislating on the investment framework, on labour, on environmental issues, but also on other issues of equal importance. This text is a multi-project that regulates and solves problems, overcomes obstacles, lays the foundations for the development of our national economy, tackling public function as a single set. In other words, we do not legislate fragmentally, but on the basis of an integrated route, starting from the framework that regulates the operation of an undertaking, the rules that the operator must observe to protect workers, as well as the environmental compliance of undertakings with the protection of the natural environment. It is a bill that is directly related to the needs of the market, not only by serving them, but also by exploiting them, for the benefit of all the workers, with respect for our natural wealth. This is the only way in a modern world to create wealth, bring growth and strengthen living standards. This is the only way to create a lot of good jobs to ensure a better life. Ladies and gentlemen, over a hundred days after the takeover of the new government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the feeling that Greece is leaving behind the economic crisis, which has troubled ten years of Greek and Greek, is constantly growing. In fact, it is not just a sense, but a reality, which is reflected in figures, but also in the daily lives of the citizens. This is now evidence of all the elements, especially economics. For example, I mention a number of positive news from the investment level: Reducing ENVY, business tax, improvement of the hundred 20 instalments, which is a real breath for taxpayers, lifting capital control, restoring normality in financial transactions, historically low record in the seven-year bond, unblocking the Greek, historically low - below 1.5% - in the ten-year bond, Greece is first borrowed at a negative interest rate. These figures show that the recession period and introverticity has passed. Today, however, we are faced with a new challenge: to shield our economy so that we do not leave the margin of return to the difficult and truly exterminational years that have taken place. I have just mentioned a series of government initiatives which have already left a positive footprint. And now comes the bill we're talking about today. Ladies and gentlemen, if we wanted to explain in simple terms exactly what we are legislating today, we should look at three points: Firstly, that we are moving on to large and small reforms that lead to the overcoming of the pathogens, which have emerged in the years of the economic crisis and have worked as weights that were pulling the Greek economy down. Secondly, we ensure that we do not again meet in the same position. In other words, we'll cure the problems, we won't just patch them. Thirdly, that we know very well that in order to achieve this, we must strengthen the investment initiative, public and private. Today the many and significant investment barriers that exist mainly in licensing issues, but also environmental, urban and labour issues, are removed. Issues that come as a bad dowry from the past, which set up walls and operate deterrently to attract investment, are resolved. A large number of small reforms are concentrated, but equally important, which change the business environment, work encouragingly and help new businesses or old ones who face financial problems. The world of precarious work is guaranteed, supporting healthy, transparent and representative representation of the social partners. We solve problems, we don't hide them under the carpet, and we don't create any new ones. For example, the intervention of the Ministry of the Environment solves the problem with forest cooperatives, for which I have also been in committee. The validity of Law 4423/2016 until 31 December 2020 is extended to allow forest cooperatives to adapt to the new data and, of course, the provision prohibiting the relatives of the first grade of the timber merchants to pursue the occupation of logging is deleted to be members of forest cooperatives. This regulation solves major problems, especially in my area, in the Pella Prefecture, which relieves a large part of citizens mainly in Almopia, where the occupation of logging is fairly developed. In other words, the intention of the New Democracy Government, unlike the previous one, is to solve problems, correct bad texts, facilitate and simplify procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, the development bill which is now being called on to vote in favour of this House lays the foundations for Greece of the future. It is a large part of the effort that we have promised we will do to deliver to our next generations and our children a better country than the one we received. That is why I am voting in favour of the bill and I call on colleagues to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u167	Mr Socrates Famelos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, when, in September 2015, the Secretary-General of the United Nations - if I am not mistaken, it must have been Ban Ki Moon at the time - recommended the universal strategy for 2030 and the adoption of the global objectives for sustainable development at the United Nations Summit - if I am not mistaken, with Mr Jeffrey Sacks, recently seen by your ministers - I do not think there would ever be a Minister of Development in 2019 in Greece, in a country that experienced a tragic, wrong development model, which would degrade all the principles of sustainable development, all the strategies for sustainable development and all the strategy for reducing inequality, poverty and climate crisis, the official, namely, policy of the United Nations, defending a quarterly development bill, which he admitted to committees, that he has no development planning. Only as a deception can one consider the title "Investing in Greece" to be real. "I am trespassing Greece" is the title that I propose you to put - and tell Mr Georgiadis, who is missing - because what other than fraud can be the horizontal, anarchist economy, with a waste of resources, and the settlement of the New Democracy's debts to continents, such as those who can spend up to politicians, but are saving lives? And indeed, to see a minister who triumphed at the first meeting of the committee for an unconditional support for an economic function of short-sighted, unjust, opportune, an economy of the Far West, a model as old as the contributory to building, but also as condemned to failure as only entrepreneurship with state contracts, this anti-development that New Democracy has been serving for years. Imagine that he deleted from our own draft law the Sustainable Development Strategy and the Development Strategy, which was targeted and sustainable, just because he wants to serve with the people of New Democracy in a treasure hunt and a piracy of natural resources. Even the bill itself disproves Mr. Georgiadis, because somewhere he talks about fields that are crucial to productive investment. He admitted, however, that he does not make any such arrangements, but regulates malfunctions and refers to the future for a development bill. Now, of course, how developmental is the unfolding of New Democracy's triggers in self-government, the deterioration of the environment in Attica, the reduction of wages with a certificate from the Bank of Greece, the increase in the salaries of directors of ministries - which, if I am not mistaken, is also a secondary education to Mr Georgiadis - the abolition of collective agreements, the delay in paying employees to casinos and the equalization of colleges with polytechnics, which I really cannot understand. When the Prime Minister and the Minister responsible for the Environment told the children mobilised in the Constitution that they were listening to their children, did they ever imagine putting in a bill that would subdue mining and, indeed, will support hydrocarbons mining? I'll read that then. The announcement of liberation is a hollow announcement. New Democracy has no environmental plan. However, in order to get you out of the difficult position, before any criticism we call on you to vote on the amendment we have tabled for a specific development fund for lignite-dependent areas, to come - even to a real development initiative - to come to - even to a sliding point. However, political deception runs out in this bill and especially in the environment. Note: It opens the way to restoring nuisance in Attica, in a highly charged area mainly atmospheric pollution and noise. Justifies it with a 2014 regulatory plan, which even said “... to exploit an existing building and industrial stock...”. So double fraud, double lie. They never told the committees that. The regulator allows activities to come, which also had mistakes. Of course, they use an excuse because they cannot tell the truth. The truth that they have to say is which countries will settle and which areas of Attica will charge, so that the New Democracy Members will also go to tell which areas of Attica will be charged more environmentally and with nuisances. If someone cared about entrepreneurship and nuisances, he would tell us which branches of goodwill, in which areas they need to get in and in which areas they need to get rid of. Such a balance debate on Attica can be of interest. I don't expect that from Mr. Georgiadis. Alas! They're fine. Noisies are being removed horizontally - a consistent request from BSE - which is the only criterion for the location and industry, so that we now have next door - possibly hotels, farms and industry. And, of course, with the well-known law-making of the state, they abolish the nuisances, saying they will bring law or ministerial decision in one year. Let me ask you a question, why do I see that this is part of the development ministry's political leadership: why do you now abolish the nuisances, if you want a year to set up the regulation? Is that an element of accomplishment? We know, however, that we can expect nothing from a government like the New Democracy, which, two months after the law of the state, is going to change it. Congratulations! Unfortunately, they know what damage they do to the environment. They know who they're dealing with. It's not that they don't know exactly where all this will lead. In business parks, for example, the environmental classification goes down and connects it because the park has organised infrastructure. So I ask: is the environmental burden of an enterprise connected to the road or to water? So, if it's in an organized receptor, the type of waste is changing, the air emissions are changing? We say that you are opening a road to reductions in environmental legislation and that this creates disparity for non-business businesses. And it is at the expense of regional development that you finance with incentives to relocate to Athens and Thessaloniki. Also, in assessing environmental impact assessments you cannot put the logic of the rotating door so that one undertaking itself can draw up another LNG to assess by having businesses assess environmental impacts. I would like you to pay particular attention to the articles that abolish the pre-approval of special spatial plans and to the article that abolishes and violates the building regulation, where the Scientific Service of Parliament - I do not have time to present it - expressly raises a problem of unconstitutionality. I do not know if you want to delay the Greek and the change of NOK for another reason, there is an issue of unconstitutionality. That's what the House's Scientific Service says. In addition, pre-approval that abolishes local spatial plans creates a question of legal certainty in investments and circumvention of spatial planning. That's what Parliament's Scientific Service says and it's in your hands today. But what about the development and mining? Do we understand? The Minister, following his criticism of Article 3(1), said that he wanted to enable the development, marble and granite operations. However, the codes for marble and granite are 8.1.11 and 8.1.12. We are, however, criticising the activity code 7 on gold metallurgy and activity code 9 on many activities that are support for hydrocarbons drilling, support for coal installations and at the same time even management of peas and steriles from the mines. In other words, they want to fund ELDORADO GOLD and for collecting the steriles they have collected in statures in Halkidiki, which is a specific environmental obligation. So I ask the House and the Government and Mr Georgiadis, who finally came: Mr Georgiadis, did you know that code 7 and code 9, which you are leaving to finance, allows the financing of ELDORADO GOLD? If you knew, why did you lie to us that you did it for marbles? If you did not do so intentionally and were not a lie, but a misinterpretation, we now call on you to withdraw codes of activity 7 and 9 from the funding of development law. If you do not, then the entire global business community will know that in Greece we have a Minister of Development who cheated the House to cover other activities by lying that he only puts the codes for marbles and granite. So the question, Mr President, is this. Do you serve interests and lie to the House or did you make a mistake and forgive it? Withdraw the code 7 and code 9 now, withdraw funding to ELDORADO GOLD and to the associated hydrocarbon and lignite projects, and we will say that you have made a mistake and we will forget it. But you serve interests and we will prove that and then. You celebrate for PPC's Public Welfare Services, that is, for what we have implemented and not implemented in New Democracy five years, which we financed by the social dividend from PPC 360 million, you say that you are lawfully doing so. But we've already implemented it. Because from what I've understood, you legislate the article about the NGO, but you don't give PPC 200 million. Because if you gave them up, they wouldn't have gone to the ruthless increases. I've never seen a chicken hurt, but an egg don't. That's what this government does. I also want to say one more thing. Mr Hatzidakis raised a point that he did not hear criticism of the digital map. However, we have to say clearly that the digital map and geographical data had been legislated by Law 4495, Articles 65 and 85, by the SYRIZA Government. There is a Geographic Data Department at the Ministry of the Environment. They don't legislate a digital map. They think that the digital map can be managed by a private person. The data can be managed by a private and essentially the spatial lines and the investment rules will be managed by a private body. That's what they legislate to sell out the digital map. But they do not say - and I conclude, Mr President - that neither will digital implementation nor what is the pilot project, nor does it come - and I say this - the Scientific Service of the Parliament and the articles of the Digital Charter, Mr Georgiadis - I hope you are interested in this because I have seen you come up with problems of ambiguity and constitutional stability, because it obliges services to grant investment licences without either the forest map or the Presidential Decree 'Natura'. And I answer Mr. Castanides who wondered what this article was doing. It obliges services to grant licences where, in environmental protection areas, forest land and they do so by law. This has been found by the Scientific Service of the Parliament and points out.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u169	Please, Mr. Femmelle, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u170	We, Mr. Georgiadis, know you're a hypocrite. I shall come back with two proposals: firstly, you withdraw the codes 7 and 9 which finance ELDORADO GOLD, not only for mining, but also for collecting its balls and voting for the amendment on lignite regions, even by sliding behind us, because we know what growth means. You, we said, change letters. Only those who save and save lives, but they finance politicians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u171	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u172	Minister, for one, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u173	One is enough. Listen, Mr Colleague, I will generally reply to my speech and the Secretary-General will reply. I'm sorry, though, very much. You cannot do what you have done before. You asked me in committee: 'It concerns, sir, gold'. And I answered: Yes, and the gold. And you came here and told me now that I was making fun of the House, because I said backwards. That's why there's minutes and videos. So you come to the House and say that I lied, that it is not about gold, when in your question if it is about gold, my answer was "yes, it is about gold". Would you drive us crazy, Mr. Famele?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u174	I'll drive you crazy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u175	Well, aren't you ashamed? I mean, honestly, that's above rivers! If I had lied to you, you'd give me up. I told you what you asked me clearly and then that yes, it was about gold. You are now saying a second question, if it relates to 'ELDORADO GOLD'. No, it does not concern "ELDORADO GOLD", because "ELDORADO GOLD" is already an ongoing investment. He can't get into the development site. But the development law, you know, is for new projects, for new companies. Therefore, it does not concern ‘ELDORADO GOLD’, but does not exclude gold from mining activity. That's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u176	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u177	Mr. Femelle, what personal now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u178	He said personal descriptions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u179	Well, now you're the ones who said you're more heavier. Are we gonna put them on the balance? He answered the questions you raised, and indeed the charge you addressed to him in relation to investments in gold. Please! Don't go like this now. There are also colleagues who want to speak. It's a long list.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u180	There's personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u181	Just for a minute, strictly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u182	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Adonis Georgiadis, in fact in committee, responded after pressure from us that marbles pressed him, and that is written in the Minutes. So we're saying, in particular...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u183	You lied before? Will you apologise?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u184	Please, Mr. Georgiadis. Let go of me. So I'm saying, right now, that if you want to prove...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u185	You lied?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u186	I didn't understand what? That you told us the marbles pushed you? In our criticism of integrating gold into funding, you said the marbles pushed you. I say, therefore, in code 7, 7.29.14, ores and concentrates of precious metal are referred to. We're asking you to remove it. And you have all code 9 - and here you'll look if you're reliable - which talks about supportive mining processes that it has - I read it to you - if you want to be serious to the children who hear the speech...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u187	What's the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u188	Please. Please. What was the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u189	‘Original, oil and gas drilling services’. Does your government fund oil and gas drilling and mining and quarrying? I put it before you, Mr Georgiadis, in particular. Do you finance them or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u190	Good. Mr. Minister. When he gets the floor, he'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u191	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u192	On this, what Mr Famelos said?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u193	On this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u194	But for a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u195	Mr Famelos is coming back, for something he has received an answer. It comes back to whether the average nuisance is a new event in Attica. I would remind you, Mr Famele, that you voted for the establishment and approval of spatial plans within Attica, namely the average nuisance of industrial installations in Attica. It's Law 4447/2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u196	You don't know well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u197	You have licensed three business parks, cotton, the Egyptian Prime Minister and Schistos. So, what are we talking about? We are talking about areas where environmental studies are already approved and not an installation anywhere in Attica. These are specific areas, they have a name and you have designated them as such areas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u198	But no placement is allowed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u199	Mr Hatzidakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with today's bill, it is clear that the government is making progress in implementing its commitments at a very rapid rate. The first hundred days of the New Democracy Government had voted for important reforms that showed a simple thing, that the country is returning to growth and European regularity. That was just the beginning. The objective remains sustainable growth, as well as job creation. The bill moves in this direction. The question is to overcome the strangles that prevented, even conditions, from being implemented. We know very well that two and a half thousand investment projects are still in drawers, and so much has gone through a great Golgotha. The Greek that had evolved into a bridge of Arta, the “FRAPORT”, which had been troubled with airports - a typical example of this in Thessaloniki in 2017 - and delays in investment park permits. There is a general framework of discouragement for investors that starts in chambers and reaches the courts. Do you know that in 2018 the average waiting time for a judgment in our country's primary court reached the thousands of six hundred days? So, four and a half years for an investor to make a judicial decision. All this has led our country to the seventeenth second place of the Doing Business index, as has already been said, and to the last place to attract investors between the countries of the European Union. This bill gives added value to the economy and paves the way for new jobs. I come from Serres, an atrocious county, which, unfortunately, we have the lowest per capita income and the remaining businesses in our region, unfortunately, many of them are seriously considering moving to Balkan countries. So the climate needs to be reversed, and this bill is certainly in the right direction, because, as the Bank of Greece has said, it can offer five points to GDP over a decade. And you must not doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that this will happen, because today tens of investment barriers are being removed and the country's entrepreneurship goes through the logic of licensing on notification and this always under the strict eyes of the state. We are finally going through the digital age with the single digital map, where by clicking everyone can learn land use and business activity in each region. We're finally going to digital books. It is shameful in 2009 that we have this picture in the Greek courts and that we have these delays. SYRIZA's talking about the trade unions. However, it ignores the fact that electronic voting will give additional power to the worker and make it easier for him to participate in the institutions. Yes, the right to strike, but yes, and the right of workers and citizens to move freely. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill has the ingenuity "Investing in Greece". "I invest in Greece" for us means I believe in Greece, we believe in the potential of the country, the Greeks. With this bill we are paving the way for tens of hundreds of investment projects to be implemented. Our aim is one: Development for all, and that is why we are voting for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr. Hatzidis. Mr Efstratios Simopoulos has the floor from New Democracy. Then Mrs Chabika Iatridis will have the floor and then she will speak and Mr Pierracakis, the Minister of State and Digital Governance, will speak. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u202	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to Mr Tsakalotou's speech. In fact, it put the difference between what we say left and how we think about the development of the country. What did Mr. Chakalotos say? That they need strategic plans. That is what the Soviet Union had to do. Thirty years. Is that what we want? Also, Mr. Tsakatos for the development conferences, if I'm not mistaken, that was the preamble to what SYRIZA says a strategic plan for Greece. They name the exhibitions of ideas development conferences and then strategic projects. This is our difference. We are, of course, following entrepreneurship in accordance with the rules of transparency, in accordance with the rules of respect for the environment, in accordance with all the laws. And yes, it is a multi-project, which facilitates entrepreneurship. That is what we do, we create tens of thousands of new jobs throughout Greece. That's what you can't understand. That's what you didn't understand while you were in the government. A lot of stumbling so that entrepreneurship - and be careful! - the little one, the middle one can't work. You prefer to legislate so that one percent who wants to outlaw not being illegal, rather than the ninety who want to invest and create jobs and have profits to do so without hindrance. You blame the Government and the New Democracy for actually serving interests. May I mention some articles to see whether we serve interests or actually a bill that favours small and medium-sized entrepreneurship? Do you disagree with the solution proposed in Article 159 for the central market in Thessaloniki? Do you know that three hundred businessmen are locked up and can't have licenses with the state's long-term responsibility? These entrepreneurs facilitate this multi-brand plan with Article 159. And they celebrate, three hundred small and medium-sized businessmen celebrate. I see that you also disagree with the article which draws too many joys over business, especially from the small ones, who pay for both the management bodies and the municipalities. It is a horizontal article that will help small businesses very much. As regards the Municipality of Delta in Thessaloniki, I agree that it is a burdensome municipality and we should all see together how we will facilitate it, but not by primarily burdening medium-sized entrepreneurship. I cannot understand what you disagree on speeding up the administration of justice. We need it and the small and medium-sized ones need it, because the big ones find solutions, they always find solutions. Small and medium-sized enterprises are suffering in court. As far as environmental conditions are concerned, I cannot understand why we are facilitating the setting up of business parks. Again, I would like to stress that small and medium-sized businesses are also being set up in business parks who are unable to withstand this orchestra of bureaucracy. You disagree, say prophecies in sin, for there will also be companies that will control investment projects. It is a pretext, as you have done so that you do not vote for ratification of contracts on hydrocarbons. They are prophecies in sins. There will also be private companies and companies. Where did you see it rule out the companies and why? With this bill, ladies and gentlemen, it essentially improves and supports small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. At the same time, however, strategic investments are being facilitated, the 4G network framework is being established, for investments, and the Public Investment Programme is being organised. So far, depending on the strength of local players, ministers or MPs were setting up the Public Investment Programme. Yes, a framework is in place so that the Public Investment Programme can be organised much more well. I also wanted to make two misinterpretations to the Ministers, particularly to the Minister for Digital Policy, who is here. I fully agree with this whole process which...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u203	Digital Policy myself, Reconstruction...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u204	Yeah, I've got you in my head. You're right. But what I would say, along with what you are doing, is to set a target in six months, for example, a hundred administrative burdens - because what you do takes time - to leave over the citizens and above all the businesses - I do not know if you are doing so - so that entrepreneurs, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, can see that we are taking steps. Because what we're organizing really takes time. And finally, to the Ministry of Infrastructure, I would like to say this: the register which is being organized is wonderful. I think that EGNATIA S.A. can undertake to organize it in Thessaloniki, which has the know-how and can do so. Of course he must take over the register for bridges and tunnels. I obviously support the bill, which is a bill for small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u205	The next speaker is Mrs Chabika Iatridis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u206	Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with a general observation. The opposition, and especially SYRIZA, are unable to understand that the present government is doing what has been promised to the Greek people, nothing more, nothing more. And he does this at a fast pace, at a decisive rate. We had promised the Greeks and Greek women that we will do our best to develop for everyone, that we will take the country out of the deinvestment, in which the government of SYRIZA had condemned with its policy Greece and all this away from strangles, far from ideologies, so that the country can go ahead to ensure a better economic climate, a climate that already seems to have improved, not only because we have come to markets, but because the Greek society sees that the Mitsotakis Government has started to produce important and substantial work. Ladies and gentlemen, today the government presents a bill showing our different concept of development. For us development must be part of a comprehensive strategic plan, a plan which, taking into account the structure of our state, must include all the critical ministries and that is what is happening in this draft law. I will highlight the main points concerning the bill and which give a new developmental orbit to our country. The licensing regime for strategic investment in Greece is being accelerated, without changing the conditions, only with regard to speeding up procedures. A more flexible process of certification of the integration and start-up of the investment is introduced with the participation of individuals. This is a very important fact. For us in the Dodecanese there have been considerable investments that have been stagnated, such as the Afantou Golf for many years. At the same time, other investments that create new jobs are also provided, such as tourist investments in Karpathos and elsewhere. For us locust islanders it is extremely important to create jobs in our country, because we want to stay in our country. The new Single Digital Charter is created so that everyone can see the kind of economic activity that is carried out and in general what is relevant to the potential for business activity. Finally, in Greece, it is time for us to have the appropriate tools so that appropriate investments can be planned. Entrepreneurial parks can be established and operated in the standards in force in other advanced countries. Substantial barriers to undeclared work are being introduced. A register of trade unions and employers' organisations is hereby established. And here I really think that the trade union movement cannot be against transparency or against democracy, which presupposes that the decisions must be taken by a majority and not by a small to a few people. We will all agree that the debt of the trade union movement itself is to create the conditions for greater participation of workers by means of a policy which is not simply limited to calling for strikes which are afflicting the other workers, as unfortunately we have seen in recent years. Finally, it solves a number of educational issues, especially in secondary education, which emerged from the SYRIZA government. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is a framework that is intended for the country to enter a developmental orbit. This can be done with an overall approach, business, environmental, labour, education. It is a bill that speeds up developments and processes, a bill that responds to the basic demand for Greeks and Greeks to see their country be a normal country in which entrepreneurship will not be persecuted ideologically, but will be a tool for the development of all. In closing my speech, I would like to point out that in the next step, when a new development law is planned, substantial weight and attention should be given to the remote island regions, possibly by providing more incentives and facilities, which we will have the opportunity to discuss and define at a later stage. Ladies and gentlemen, the development of a country must be based on all its powers in the public and private sectors. Synergy and cooperation are the key to taking a step further, to make the best possible use of all the comparative advantages of our country. That is why I support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Chabika Iatridis. The Minister of State and Digital Governance has the floor, Mr Pierracakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u208	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Plenary Assembly of the Greek Parliament is called upon to vote on a draft law whose title testifies, not only the content but also the targeting: 'I invest in Greece'. This is a draft law that has been touching on all aspects of the investment process and is then introduced, not only by a formal consultation, but also by an informal dialogue, a dialogue which has been taking place for several years since the crisis, and which concerns what kind of country we want, what kind of productive model we want and whether the country will succeed in getting out of the crisis in the end with a different model from that through and because of which it has been in the crisis, that is to say, through the non-marketable sectors of the economy in the outward sectors of the economy, in exports, in direct foreign investment, in innovation, in all which our country can do, but which is still not. And if we had to make a ratio from the IT field, we would say that our country is a country with the right material, but with problematic software, with the right hardware, but with the wrong software, with all those advantages in its location, with the natural advantages, with human resources, but with institutions not always well targeted, not always properly oriented. And the hardest job to change our productive model is no more than changing software than changing the rules of the game. This draft law includes a number of provisions on the competence of the Ministry of Digital Governance. We have talked in detail about this in committee. I will mention, for example, the single digital map, which will collect geographical data, which are currently scattered, often non-digitalised, not only in the central state but also in the OTAs and these data should be able to be collected, digitised, to provide citizens free of charge in a simple, valid and complete way, for example, existing land uses, construction conditions, orgymotomy. Secondly, we are establishing what we have already said, the single digital portal of public administration, the GOFE.gr, which will gather the scattered digital public services, which will gradually become more and more through interoperability and we have already said that in the first few months of next year a first form of this portal will be available to citizens. Thirdly, the national framework for simplifying procedures, which will be the guide to recording and simplifying each administrative procedure, with the aim of horizontally combating bureaucracy, which is the basic work of this new Ministry and, finally, the new Directorate-General for cybersecurity, the new structure that will essentially be the national coordinator for national cybersecurity policy, now within the general telecommunications secretariat. Where I would like to stand a little above is in most of the provisions concerning the Ministry in the draft law, regarding the licensing of antenna systems. And this initiative is a good example of intervention that comes to correct a chronic distortion, which has existed since the 1990s, when mobile telephony began in our country. And I'll start from something that's not included in the draft law, but which's what's involved most of them, which's about the radiation of antenna systems. In Greece we have six and a half thousand antennas. Sixteen and a half thousand antennas are located in fourteen and a half thousand unique locations. There is an international organisation, ICNIRP, which defines international radiation limits. Greece has legislated to move to lower radiation than international limits. We move to 70% of these radiations, and where there is a school or hospital, within 300 meters, we move to 60% of the international limit. Every year there are checks. Last year the SEA, the Greek Atomic Energy Commission carried out two and a half thousand tests. How many antennas were above the limit? Just four. And certainly not above the international limits. It was above our Greek limits which are lower. It is a matter of agony, and it is a fact that we need to have huge care for health issues or issues relating to the protection of citizens. This issue, however, is an issue that we have arranged with additional care on the part of the Greek state. What's changing in the antenna? The licensing process is changing, because there was an absurdity there. For example, very often an antenna changed from 3G to 4G and had to go through all the licensing. There was, in other words, a gray regime, which also had evidence of irrationality. For example, it must re-enter building permits for an already spaceed antenna. Such absurdities by the existing draft law, by these provisions, are resolved. And it is a necessary treaty to be solved, in and out of another prism. It is not just a prism here that we have resolved an outstanding situation that has existed for years. The prism is forward, and it is about how we get through this new era. We have the fifth generation networks in front of us. We're listening everywhere about the 5G. This is an issue that is debated internationally, and is also discussed under other conditions. Greece must not miss this train too. So, that's where we have a dilemma. We will either respond to the new operational data or stay in a grey situation and miss this train too. So our message is clear. With existing changes, antennas are either licensed or demolished. Gray ends. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law comes to a vote shortly after the first hundred days of the new government are completed, it comes to a framework regarding our Ministry and to complete its institutional tools, those which were first shaped by Law 4623/2019 and which are a completion of the first phase of a legislative cycle for us. We could talk about an end to the principle. This concept of the first hundred days has a great historical symbolism, starting with Roosevelt, starting in the 1930 ’ s and the thirteenth Roosevelt bills of 1933 that introduced the new deal and pushed America out of its very great crisis. In our first hundred days we've done too much and that's a qualitative difference. They are identified more with the end of the crisis than with the middle or beginning. That is precisely why, now, it is not a question of overcoming the crisis, but of planning how we go from now on. More than a hundred days ago, the question is where the country will go in the next ten years. And with the latest technological advances, it is certain that we will soon see things ahead of us, which look like a science fiction. For example, speaking of the fifth generation networks, many of their applications already, if anyone sees them how they develop, seem to come from far away in the future. To anyone who is sceptical, what I would urge him to do, it would be to compare 1993 to 2003 and how our life has changed from the Internet in a decade. Changes will now be even more rapid and cannot be supported by institutions, structures and networks which have been designed for the past period than we have been living for. The fourth industrial revolution will bring about even greater changes. So the first step is to remove the obstacles of the past. Such actions result from the proposed legislative changes, and I believe that in this light we should also address the overall draft law to be adopted, by answering the question of how we want Greece to be in ten years' time from now. Do we want it to be alongside the states that are leading their technological progress, or do we want it to follow by consuming developments? Ultimately, the future, the future, the future, the future, or the existence of it, and this time we have to do the first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u209	We continue with the list of speakers. Mr. Giannoulis Christos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u210	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I take advantage of the fact that I am succeeding in the step by Mr Pierrakakis, but I would like to say to him that the problem of the bill we are discussing is that, at the moment, about a thousand workers in a subsidiary of COSMOTE, with the legal interventions you introduce or take, within your Government, are hostages by a positive decision so that they are not hired workers, which is not implemented by the management of the company. They have been recognised as the right to equalise their wages, at least with the sectoral labour contract and it is not because we are going to 5G, but we will have become jungle conditions at work. That's parentheses. I wanted to start by saying - in my ears, I might hear it in a few hours - that it doesn't matter where an unresolved and bad bill was filed. The bill may be a mosaic service, but it saves the lives of our friends. Because this is in the core of a bill or in any case a biblical project that looks like a bill. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, such lies have never been spoken with such cynicism, vindication and prudence. You know, I don't particularly like standard gymnastics or the conditions accompanying it. They have entered the public sphere, but we will not seek it in his articles, where the rapporteurs and the speakers have done so with sufficient precision, we will seek it in the Prime Minister's presence yesterday in Thessaloniki. What happened yesterday in Thessaloniki? With a time sequence. He announced the subway would be ready in 2023. In a short time, the ‘KTOP’ requested an extension for 2025 and additional allowances. They have already received 200 million of your own governments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u211	On your own government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u212	For the Toumba stadium, I will say low-speaking, because the New Democracy Government does not want and much to know that the Prime Minister met with Mr Savvidis, did not release a photo, we call it low-speaking what was discussed and what was decided.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u213	Press release's out.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u214	Mr. Simopoulos, my name isn't Krounaki. If you want to censor Krounakis, do it, but I'm named Giannoulis Christos. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u215	I'll see you around.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u216	Don't interrupt, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u217	For the Prespecies Agreement, suddenly the rhetoric of demagogy in its best version, harmful to the most popular and commonly released public, and with your responsibility for treason and confiscated agreement, we are now suddenly respecting the landmark and interests of the state. If you really wanted to serve the interests of this country, you should have thought about it before you poisoned the Greek citizens with your cheap demagogues and now no one deplores the fact that hundreds of refugees, Mr Georgiadis, have been immovable for hours, in a way that I believe justifies you completely, but for the rest it has a different view and opinion. So I am not going to talk about the bill, because this thing, which you have put to the vote, does not stand in parliamentary ethics either as a volume or as a content. However, you have been living lately - and you are constantly repeating it - the assurance that you are once again self-powered government on the right. You feel it, you say it, you emit it. You give the impression that after 7 July there will not be elections again in this place, that you will be appointed a life-long government, that you will not be chosen again by the people, who have the criterion and the infallible force to assess the governments, but will remain stuck on 7 July. But you must understand that work, insurance rights, sustainability, continuity, consistency, political bravery, prudent legislation, consultation, programming and, finally, democracy is the oxygen of development. In this bill they are missing. I would also like to say something about work, although they have already been adequately documented. Create cynically the logic of "rich businessmen, bankrupt enterprises" especially in Thessaloniki. Those who come from or are elected there should have taken this lesson very well. But you who reward the worthy and the excellent, what have you done? You are proposing to take over the TEN - I do not know, if I am mistaken - Mr. Nicholas Bakcelos, the gene of the well-known family, friends of Mr. Mitsotakis' family. Alexandros Bakcelos was a friend with the late Constantine Mitsotakis and the family relationship continues. Do you know that Mr. Nikolas Bakcelos, his name is petty, that he flew around a hundred employees in the newspaper "GENELIOROS", without any compensation, without paying for years and owes a few million euros to the public through the bankruptcy company? He himself, a few days later, and his family had the possibility - I do not want to call it - to make charity gala for the people of the city. Is that, then, the relationship with the work protection or the protection of labour rights? Is this a concrete example, and should you answer as to whether another doctrine applies, that is, "we have the wolf guarding the sheep"? Because it is fashionable to apologise and remorse, before anyone apologizes, these days, in another room, is Mr Chrysochoidis, who is developing the bill on the refugee process. Since this bill does not stand up to harmonisation and discipline within its provisions and does not even stand up to criticism, I will remain a little bit in the apologies, saying that if anyone has to ask today for an apology, beyond you, Mr Brutsi, in addition to Mr Georgiadis, which often gives rise to the public debate with tensions and insinuations that go beyond certain limits, the one who should be sorry to have to ask today is, firstly, the one responsible for the people who are waiting in Malgara following their persecution by the Brasinas and the Minister of Health, Mr Kikilis, who had the courage to look at the sensitivity of Greek citizens for sending a young child to America. This is the New Democracy. We will continue to work for democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u218	Mrs Sakova Sophia has the floor from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u219	Are we not following the order, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u220	Mr. Conkogeor, to explain to you, Mrs. Sakorafa had not been consulted. There was an obligation and they were kept. That's what happened. Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last decade, on the pretext of the crisis and invoking the urgency of our country's salvation, we have, unfortunately, watched the disgracefulness of Parliament and its operation by all the governments with thousands of pages of bills being voted on in one day and Parliament simply has to sign it. The tragic situation, however, is that this unacceptable situation tends to become normal. Today's chaotic bill - monster with 213 articles and eight hundred pages proves it. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, I directly account for you. It is worth noting that what it involves is not discussed in detail. Because, if that were the case, the title would have to be changed. Instead of "I invest in Greece and other provisions", it should be said "I do what I want in Greece and I have all the facilities". The accident for the country, gentlemen of the government, is that you find a stranded way from the previous government, which applied exactly the same policy, dressed in fine words. Because of time, I shall refer in summary to specific articles that substantiate my opinion. The investor, as you mean him, is above every law. In Article 1, on the pretext of speeding up the authorisation of investment, time-limits shall be set at your acquaintances and on the grounds of services and, indeed, under the threat of disciplinary action by officials. If the Minister for Development is to pass through, he says. The approach does not require any further comment. But you shield the investor, who takes state aid for the next steps. The audit and certification of implementation shall be entrusted to improper private auditing mechanisms. The public authority is limited to minimum and sampling, a procedure which has created major practical and constitutional problems where, and where applicable, the electronic building licence process has been carried out. And it goes on unsuccessful. In Article 206 you certainly exaggerate yourself. Use possible requirements of future investors for the construction of special architectural design buildings, removing any limitation of volume and height of the New Building Regulation and any restriction for the protection of monuments, archaeological sites and historical sites, as well as any protected area "NATURA", "RAMSAR" etc. And all this, with the only decision of the Minister for the Environment and Energy and the agreement of the Minister for Sport. The Minister of Sports, obviously, enters so that the Minister of Foreign Affairs does not feel alone. Because this was first applied to the Greek investor, at the request of the national investor Mr. Latsis, I would ask, without waiting for an answer: at the request of the same investor, or are you making possible demands from other investors with the same quality characteristics, 'I don't put a single euro in my charge on regional projects, I destroy areas and I get a guarantee of super-currency profits'? I note, although I think it is a bit of interest to you, that this provision has a problem of constitutionality, given the increased obligation of the State to take measures to protect monuments and archaeological sites and to demonstrate them and is probably not compatible with the country's supra-constitutional obligations under international conventions that we have ratified in the framework of the UN and UNESCO, in accordance with Article 28 of the Constitution. So since you have arranged town planning, you are making sure that investors and cheap scientific staff are assured. Articles 169 and 171 introduce new, so-called flexible procedures for the recognition of colleges and foreign universities, which level diplomas and professional rights. The holders of unrecognised diplomas will acquire equal professional rights with the graduates of the domestic institutions and with graduates who hold a recognised equivalence and with a different length of study, such as three-year, five-year-olds. You see the characteristic examples of engineers. In addition, while the system of recognition so far only concerned European Union nationals, the term 'third country' is now being introduced. So, we're talking about American colleges, and so on. Therefore, apart from the fact that you are effectively circumventing Article 16 of the Constitution, the arrangement is detrimental to the public interest and discrediting the higher public education. In the same perspective, you also open up new fields of investment interest. In Article 179, under the pretext of allegedly having difficulty in applying the law in force, a simple decision of the City Council is granted without justification to private waste collection and transport services of solid waste and recyclable materials, cleanliness of public spaces and municipal buildings, electricity and green maintenance. However, the public and reciprocity of the respective services is one of the main features and reasons for the existence of local government. The experience so far shows that privatisation will lead to an increase in compensation fees and, of course, a deterioration in services. As for workers in the services to be privatised, they remain without a visible risk of unemployment. And your interest in investors is complete with Article 54. With the general electronic trade union register you have been implementing the search for BSE since 1970 to keep workers online and with the blessings of the GDPR. The blacklists with the trade union workers who travelled in the 1970s, for BSE not to find a job, are officially made electronic documentaries of the state so that any interested party can have them at his disposal. Any comment is superfluous here too. Of course, this concept of work and labour relations does not only restrict it to the private sector, extend it to the public, in an environment characterised by subsistence, legislate flexible working relations with private-law relationships, allegedly, to address emergencies or emergencies. Because this work has been played too many times, all you want is to create a new army of enclaved contractors in the public, dependent on the political leadership in question, so that they may be its potential voters. Ladies and gentlemen, I have left Rule 185 last. I would like to appeal to all my colleagues in this House who have served local government - and we are a lot of people. In particular, I am addressing those who served it from the positions of the mayor and especially the first city. Ladies and gentlemen, you are sure to know very well that the rotation of the vote provided for in paragraphs 1 and 2 of the article creates the ideal environment for arbitrariness, blackmail and corruption to flourish. I also call on you - because we have experience and knowledge - to support the withdrawal of Article 185 which I ask the Minister responsible for this step. In any case, however, the vote in favour of paragraph 3 of this article makes us all those who have served local accountants and contractors in the most provocative dishwasher by the municipal authority and indeed by retrospective power. The worst thing, however, is that we all know that this paragraph has a name and political reference. Honestly invoking my twelve years of service in local government, it seems to me incomprehensible that my colleagues - and now - consent to this unreasonable violation of every principle of law and good administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u222	Mr Konstantinos Kontogeorgios from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u223	I am sorry, Mr President, first of all, I would like to turn to Mr Brutsi personally. Because, you know, the Member has an obligation to judge the government and that's what we're going to do. Mr President, with all due respect - and you know it personally - some colleagues taking advantage of their previous term of office and remembering their glorious past, feel that Parliament is their own case and do not obey any regulations or any logic, such as Mr Famelos previously. You called from the Bureau that he was constantly violating the regulation or anything else, and he continued unsatisfactory, over the eleven minutes of his post, depriving his next colleagues, obviously, of the floor. So it is good, Mr President, to bring Members back to order and remind them that our rights are equal in this sacred space of Parliament. And a second comment on the missing person from the Step just now, Mr Giannoulis of the SYRIZA, whose question I ask him to tell us 'what does the cheap guy have to do with the retsindo'?' The same thing has to do with the bill under discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law "Investing in Greece" under discussion comes to upset the stagnant and blurred waters in the development area and finally to give solutions to time-consuming problems that afflict our country. Through a set of initiatives leading to the investment path, which is also the cornerstone of much-needed growth for many years in the winter. Before I place myself on the bill, I would like to make five important points, which call for the need to speed up initiatives that pave the way for investment in order to raise our economy to deal effectively and permanently with the consequences of the economic crisis in our country. Element number one: Unemployment. Our country has the highest unemployment rate in the European Union, as it reaches 17.2%, while the average of the European Union does not exceed 6.3. This means that there must be incentives to develop and encourage entrepreneurship in order to develop businesses which, however, must strictly follow the legal rules relating to labour law, competition and the restriction of unfair competition. Item 2: Part-time. Parttime work currently reaches 9% of all employees, while in 2007 it did not exceed 5.3%. There are reasonable indications that a large proportion of parttime workers are employed in full time, without the employer being paid the corresponding contributions. Third element: Exports. There is a discrepancy between exports and imports, resulting in a large trade deficit in our country. It is worth noting that the trade balance deficit is increasing by 6.3%, corresponding to EUR 1.8 billion between the time limit: July 2018-July 2019. Item four: Investments. Investments in our country have literally collapsed, given that in 2007 they reached 26% of GDP and amounted to EUR 60 billion, in 2018 they collapsed to 11.1% of GDP on the basis of net investments, which are negative after 2011. In general, investment as a percentage of GDP is the lowest among the countries of the European Union and percentaged as follows: 1.9% of investment in our country compared with 3.5% in the European Union, while the investment gap reaches 100 billion euros. Element fifth: The ranking position of our country based on the Doing Business index of the global bank. Greece takes the 72th position of this indicator and the last in the rich economies of OECD members. The Doing Business indicator highlights the degree of convenience that an economy provides in order to start operating a business and take serious account of the potential investors. Consequently, this legislative initiative comes to eliminate the monster of bureaucratic processes that acted as a brake on any attempts by candidate investors, raising huge and successive obstacles to any investment initiative. To deal with the slow administration of justice, to clarify the incomprehensible provisions of a large number of legislation, and to fill in the gaps in existing legislation, which has proved to be very difficult for the development of entrepreneurship to a large extent. And it even comes to reduce its operating and environmental licensing procedures, their time-consuming and cost-effective effects. Therefore, this draft law gives flexibility to the area of strategic investment, it makes significant changes to development laws in order to complete control and certification of a large number of investment projects. Investment laws to date, instead of being used as a useful development tool, have enclosed investors in a series of improper procedures resulting in the loss of resources and jobs. The Single Digital Charter is created which enables all interested parties to know on what specific points economic activity is permitted. The National Infrastructure Register, which will function in a digital format and will provide information to any interested party. Inside it, buildings and all public infrastructures as well as important information such as when they were built will be registered, when control and maintenance operations have been carried out and which body is responsible for these responsibilities. Entrepreneurial parks are created and significant incentives are given to enterprises operating in these organised infrastructures. Discard the nuisance steps in the manufacturing industries and are replaced by the environmental classification categories so as to avoid double licensing. The National System of Quality of Infrastructure by public private entities is established in order to address fragmented legislation on business obligations. The Writing Observatory is established, which is an important tool for its effective response while abolishing Law 3419/2005 and being replaced by new provisions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, just a minute. In the field of employment there are a number of provisions which guarantee employment relations, combat undeclared work, protect workers and prevent the abuse of the system. Let me turn to the national development programme a little. Planning, implementation, monitoring and control of development assistance financed from national resources of the Public Investment Programme are now being carried out. Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, because all this is being dealt with in this draft law, years of bounces that were working as a brake on the necessary growth and fuelling the unemployment monster, while at the same time creating a dominance of negative developments for the economy of the country. It is high time we all supported without micro-participatory pursuits and pitfalls of such legislative initiatives. And before I come to the Step, and above all to the Minister of Development, to remind him that mountain and isolated Greece, as is Evrytania, needs special care and a backbone of incentives for its development and prosperity. We're at zero. It is high time that special free tax investment areas were introduced because it is the only hope for these regions to survive. After that I am voting for the draft law which is currently being discussed in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u224	Mr Dimitrios Vartzopoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u225	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many indicators measure his easy business, but one of the most reliable, as the previous colleague has said, is that of the World Bank, which is based on measuring administrative burdens in very important areas, such as starting up, licensing procedures, import and export procedures, bankruptcy and financing procedures. According to this indicator, when the trouble began in 2010-2011, our position was the hundred or inch first, if I remember well, in a total of ninety economies that are measured. Later, in 2013, we went up to the seventyth second place, both in Samaras and Venizelos in 2014-2015, to the highest position we've ever had. In the next few years, of course, we have spread slowly, so that in 2018, as my colleague said, we can be in the seventeenth second place again. The purpose of this bill is to get back to the top. The purpose of this bill is to help us get to a place far better than the one we are and to reconstitute the feeling that it is worth investing in Greece. This is, of course, done with a number of measures which, ladies and gentlemen, are so much that only their mere references are left out. Therefore, allow me to stay only in some who have a symbolic, emblematic character and have a specific ideological mark. Firstly, accountants, audit firms, as well as engineers and related professions are given the opportunity to monitor and evaluate investments and to give production permits. I think - and I do not think I am mistaken - that this is the first time in the history of the state in which the powers of this deep state are transferred to the private sector. It is a concrete measure with a liberal character. A similar measure is the decision not to sign the agreements in business parks and the development of these parks by the political leadership, but by the General Secretariat and possibly by the physical hierarchy. This is not only compatible with what we say about a state that we have supported and voted for, but is manipulating the administration and enables it to build its self-respect again and become more productive. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, there is also an issue that is essential in terms of the ability of entrepreneurs to deal simply with the state. What do I mean by that? That one of the main objectives of this draft law is the famous National Simplification Plan for Procedures, which aims, first, to reduce the plurality and evil, but also, secondly, to improve the friendlyness of the services, as measured by the administrative steps that every citizen - businessman involved with the state - needs to take. Here, then, is a glorious field for the very competent Secretary-General to quantify the procedures, to quantify the objectives which will be a way of assessing not only the physical hierarchy but also this political leadership. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to these very specific liberal entrepreneurship measures, the specific provisions which the Minister of Labour brings to Parliament offer a substantial safety net, protect wage-earning and, indeed, in the form of full employment. This is done by very specific measures: Firstly, the draconian way in which not only those who not only declare workers but also those who submit detailed periodic declarations without paying employers' contributions are treated. Secondly, the fact that employers' contributions are being reduced only for full-time work over five years, while the costs of overtime in part-time work are increasing by 12%. Thirdly, the trade union transparency not only in terms of establishing and maintaining unions, but above all the possibility for the ordinary worker to decide for the future on matters which concern him directly. And of course last but not least, it is the fact that not only are collective agreements maintained and strengthened, but there is the possibility - where there is a real risk - that the employer, together with the workers, should fight for the maintenance of jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, this means that we have a bill here with a clear ideological sign, a combination of liberal treatment of entrepreneurship and a substantial protection of wage labour. It is a real symbol of Greek Christian democracy, a bill that will soon become a law, a true symbol of Greek social centre.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u226	We continue with Mrs. Gerovasili Olga from SYRIZA and will follow Mrs. Papapega. Mrs Gerovali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u227	Ladies and gentlemen, I hear many arguments today that this bill speeds the country's return to normality. But I think that where you say 'normality', you mean, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, the model of bankruptcy. This model was the one that brought our country into this situation and without a trace of self-criticism you restore it even further. Apart from refusing to consult critical provisions of this bill, you are certainly once again teaching bad legislation. This multi-brand plan that you call development - I would call it 'project - Frankenstein' - has it all, licenses, 'final' state, labour, justice, education and even amnesty. He's got it all. But this does not go hand in hand with what you announced in the election that a development is coming for everyone. Is this bill all of us? Or is it just specific? It's an interrogation of election statements and post-elections. Of course, as the New Democracy colleagues have said, this bill shows, in a very good way and clear lines, our ideological differences: on the one hand, we have ideological ideologies and maintenance. On the other hand, we have proposed prospects and social cohesion. Some aspects of this bill refer directly to the years of the memoranda, both of quality and of the substance of the legislature. On what you have done in the state as well as in various other things you are legislating here, let us agree that public administration is an upgraded development tool in the hands of the citizens, in the hands of everyone, so that the country can move on to development. I remind you that we have nowadays implemented, after drawing up a three-year strategy, and many steps have been completed. I remind you of steps towards the state's colonisation, the dignity, the mobility of employees, the digital organiza tions, the job profiles, the digital state, for example, the electronic movement of documents, transparency with No 4590/2019. Among other things, we have also created the Special Secretariat for Support for Operations for Administrative Reconstruction and Public Administration Observatory. This secretariat provided for the Public Administration Observatory. What was that supposed to mean? It was intended to develop a framework for monitoring and evaluating public policies and, of course, reforms, with a view finally to the reconstruction of public administration. In other words, he should observe and correct it. It also provided for the Administrative Reconstruction Action Support Unit for the provision of advisory services. In other words, technical assistance and expertise to improve the administrative capacity of public bodies. From the first days of your governance, you have broken it up. Of course, you have also dismantled the relevant Ministry, without that mean that we can forget as Minister at the Ministry of Administrative Reform Mr. Mitsotakis, Minister at the time of redundancies. What does that mean? It means that you have burned one of the main tools for coordinating public administration policies. And what comes - say - in his place? An Observatory for bureaucracy. That is, to observe it, to look at the bureaucracy, without a mechanism for raising all these policies. This is, of course, an Observatory which will remain in another ministry with hundreds of heterogeneous responsibilities. A centralised structure, in my view, which, in addition, also has the meaning to settle privileged poster in accordance with the privileged terms you have put into the draft law for the final state. I imagine that you do not want to admit that you have pro-electionally slandered critical reforms and personally targeted your opponents. That's what you can do. Hello, and I'm glad to meet you. However, you cannot distort efforts resulting from international expertise and broad consultation planning. Of course, I believe that you will not be excelling where you have failed over decades, because, in other words, you do not do your self-criticism. Of course, the communication system, which you generously support with your bill, returns all this support to you as well. So you give the public image that this bill has the absolute sympathy of all the social partners and that they accept this piece of legislation. Of course, we understand the support of BSE, the Association of Private Television Stations, the relief of the Mayor of Glyfada, the confusion of the leadership of the GSEU. However, we cannot close our eyes to the reaction of many bodies, who have demonstrated the fundamental weaknesses and problems of this project. After all that has happened in education, that you have abolished a series of arrangements, such as that for postgraduate students, aimed at the sustainability of universities, you are abolishing arrangements that facilitated access to higher education and that have been totally symptoms during the same period of registration in private colleges, widened the way to the recognition of professional rights and the professional equivalence of graduates. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] I also want to comment on this. I remember the 'nuclear' reasons a few months ago from the representatives of large chambers of the country against the merger of the IEI - TEI. This time I saw them very hypotonic. I don't know why, who the chambers represent and who the interests support. It is a question that arises again in this dialogue. This move, of course, you made it to defend very specific interests, with a clear class choice, sub-funding, occupation of public universities, with a solution to private colleges. Healthy entrepreneurship? It's a question of whether it's a healthy entrepreneurship. Of course, it's enough everyone can pay. I have heard the Proctor of Haroscope University in the debate with the actors about the risks posed by this decision on the labour market and the Greek public university. But your choice is clear to the end. Entrepreneurship support. I won't argue. We all want to support entrepreneurship. What entrepreneurship, though? Because you said about everyone. There's not everyone in this plan here. In the context of this project there are few, specific, ‘friends’ or ‘friends’. Anyway, agreed things. For the same reasons, of course, there is also a tradition of private interests from the main areas of operation of local authorities.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u228	Ms. Gerovali, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u229	I'm hanging up. I remember the reactions of the eight and a half thousands of employees in cleanliness here. Today, these reactions are justified in a system which cannot withstand administrations elected simply proportionally and which cannot support this. So, once again, you are legislating for a comprehensive mayor model to serve these jobs you have arranged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u230	Mrs Papariga has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u231	As you know, gentlemen of the government and the other parties, we are not hiding behind our finger. For us, as many times we have said, the Members of the Communist Party of Greece expressed this in their speeches, the law is the right of the worker. The law for us is right, not in general of the middle classes, but of the small, poor, middle-sizes city and countryside, who are oppressed by the large business groups. The law for us is the right and the right of the people to refuse to shed their blood for the interests of leading capitalist forces, for how the pipelines share, for how the sources of raw materials will be shared, for how they will change the borders, for how the spheres of influence will change. Will you tell me why I'm starting with this? Because that's the essence of the plan. And it is no coincidence that the development came along with issues relating to the labour union movement and, of course, labour relations and rights, insurance and other matters, of workers. Today - I will say names, we do not like to talk in general - in the newspaper 'Kathemerini', which supports the respective sovereign policy, regardless of whether it is in favour of one or the other government, there is an article that says 'The immunity of the JRC' and calls on the government and the Prime Minister personally to take measures, because it says the JRC enjoys immunity. And what does the JRC mean? What the JRC does publicly, openly writes it and does it from 1918 until now, that it has struggled to understand its power, its right, the development of labour struggles, the development of all forms of struggle, depending on the conditions of course, for the development of the alliance of working class with poor popular layers, etc. Not to mention - I do not know whether it is worth it in Parliament - all the position of the Communist Party of Greece. And that's what he thinks of immunity. Of course you'll tell me: a columnist is, slowly, what happened? It's his personal point of view. It's not his personal view. For years now and not only at the moment, the right to strike, the right to organize, the right to emancipation, the fight against employers and the government is considered to be a questionable right. We, Mr Brutsi, are not going to be Japanese and support strikes, sit in their offices and machines with a white bracelet. We're not with the trade unions Mr. Corbin's guided. You know that in England - because Mr. Corbin has become a big symbol now - the trade unions are members of the Labour Party. They're trade unions like that. Many trade unions - in order not to generalize - declare the strike and ask workers to sit in the garage of the large - because they have large factory complexes - or in the underground, not to go out on the sidewalk - say these unions - so that the authority of the business is not exposed to the public service, but to be a strike within the workplace. We are not going to follow, support such actions and even say that they are modern, modern methods of fighting. The New Democracy clearly says that social inequality is about normal and even considers that social inequality is also an incentive for everyone to want to go up above, above, above, as if it were a matter of personal choice. SYRIZA has a different condition, she has just said so from this step by Mrs Gerovas: social cohesion. What does social cohesion mean? Can social cohesion exist in a society with exploiters and exploiters? Can social cohesion exist in class society? That's your difference. One speaks rawly and clearly by saying that it is right for the entrepreneur, and the other says that social inequality was created by nature, as has earthquakes and other natural phenomena that man or science unfortunately were not yet able to deal with. The other says'social cohesion'. We cannot support any social cohesion. Social cohesion means that workers and business groups have the same interests. They are completely contradictory and uncompromising. And when they sit at the same table - we support collective bargaining - we tell the workers that the correlation of powers is negative. Negotiation with the employer can result when strong class struggles have been precedented, mass and when you sit on the table you are claiming to be the uncompromising opponent with whom you can never have a common interest. It's over. That is what we and these are the fundamental differences we have with government policy and other parties. I followed the debate in committee and really - it was very important - that I was sorry, because I do not know how many workers are attending not only the plenary sittings but also the committees of this House. There things were very nice and very clear. And I should also like to congratulate Mr Georgiadis and Mr Drasakis on their 'controversy' and friendly debate. What did Mr. Drasakis say? It would not be possible for the government today to invoke an investment programme, call for investment or for tsunami investments - it did not say the word tsunami, now I do not remember his words, I did copy them at the time he was talking about - that it could not have brought a development bill if the whole work that SYRIZA did had not taken precedence over. And he does not mean the work of the Ministry's study committees, but he does mean the strategy followed by SYRIZA for attracting investors to Greece, strategy and against popular interests and against the labour union movement, etc. And Mr Georgiadis replied to him: 'We certainly took this serious job that the Ministry had done and gave a follow-up'. That's the point. Industrialists say 68% of the measures they wanted to take were taken by SYRIZA and stays 32% for New Democracy. Or some go to compare by saying that SYRIZA gave so much dividends to the people from the "beat" that it became, the New Democracy gives less or - I know - more. It is not a quantitative matter. Even if the previous anti-popular government that was SYRIZA and the previous one took five meters or took ten and the next took four, or vice versa, four anti-popular measures were taken by the previous one and six, they act cumulatively, they are continuously and act cumulatively. But no new measure would have been taken by the government since it legalised everything that has happened in the years of the crisis, and when it was again in SYRIZA, it was enough to talk about worsening the situation. You're not accepting one thing. You don't take it consciously, not out of ignorance. At the time when you are talking about digitisation, about the 4th Industrial Revolution or at the time when you say that investment is being made in Greece in specific areas you do not accept that these, regardless of their class character, prove that Greece has developmental potential and wealth-producing sources, unfortunately not for the people but for capital. You do not admit, too, consciously, classically and not ignorance, not foolishness and stupidity, the following thing. And only progress in new technologies, digitisation or the so-called 4th Industrial Revolution raises a question: objectively, legislatively - I would say - the human needs, the needs of the people are rapidly increasing. We, ladies and gentlemen, are also fighting for the restoration of the losses and for the overthrow of the laws that have been in place over the years. Because the stay of the laws means perpetuation and legitimacy. And SYRIZA legalised the previous laws, and the New Democracy legalised them. But under no circumstances do we expect us to go back to 2009 - under no circumstances! - because then there was a gap between the country's potential and the human needs, and this gap is growing. I'm not going to deal with where the investments are going. Investments are made in certain sectors. It's always like that. SYRIZA criticises the fact that the New Democracy does not have a vision, that is, that it has not put much "salt" into the plan - because SYRIZA is true that it has put a lot of time to say "left sauce" - and says that it is intensifying the country's structural problem and that an invitation to investment is being made in just a few areas. Of course, he fails to mention the cheap labour force, all these antiques. He says it once and for all, just to remind him that he once said something more before he became a government. If you take the development program of the Change Movement, the New Democracy, the SYRIZA before the elections, where they said that Greece has advantages to call on investors were precisely the same branches and sectors. In capitalism sectors, capitalist, i.e. companies with high profitability and export performance, and others are left crazier. Can I give you an example? There is talk of tourism. Another says it is the flagship in any case of the Greek economy, etc. What's coming here? How many five-star hotels will become, what infrastructure, modern infrastructure, hotels, casinos, etc., for those who have a delivery, who will, of course, leave profits to the hotel owners and develop the national income of which is certainly a classic, but on the other hand there is a programme that says that I must solve, stop the problem of the Greek people's family, new couples cannot make tourism in the summer? Because in summer it is necessary for you to have time to have leisure and tourism even abroad, to become infrastructure, popular camps, modern camping, for parents to go with young children free of charge or too cheap for those with low incomes. Tourism includes nothing to address the issue of the use of free time and needs for holidays, for tourism in the Greek family. Nice to meet you. That there will be great hotels in the center of Athens, we know that. You're struggling to invest. You're clearly fighting. Alas! The unpaid capital, the lake capital, the overcompensated capital in the years of the crisis must find a way out. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm done here. They never put 100% of the hot money they have in an investment, because they always want to do in multi-class investments, rag in other ways that increase their capital. They always want bank loans, which is now difficult. The whole banking system in Europe is experiencing problems. They therefore make use of the NSRF - created by the sweat of the peoples of Europe - they make use of public investment, everything goes into the same bag. They will definitely get additional money and environmental privileges etc. Not to mention them in detail. The MPs of the Communist Party of Greece said so and SYRIZA also whispered to oppose them. Therefore, this multi-brand plan is a tombstone for the working people, it is the great and golden opportunity for business groups. Finally, there is no government that did not have a few more friendly business groups next to it. This does not necessarily mean money, etc. Always. This has always been the case. The government told SYRIZA that it was making selective benefits. That's what SYRIZA says. Same taste for both parties. What can we do? In fact, there are differences, and the people would do well to assess the differences that exist between themselves, otherwise bipolarism, which is a basis for this rotten political system, would not exist if there were no differences. Finally, Mr Brutsis, you are maintaining what is rotten and erroneous in the labour movement. We don't idealize the trade union movement. There's rot, there's also fraud. And now it's not just government union. The government's trade union is also giving birth to anti-government trade unionism, because the opposition is also in the middle parties. What is being promoted in a more modern and decisive way today is the employer's, because employers' union is more decisive, is directly linked to the work of the worker. The phobias imposed by the employers' union is more than just government union, and what you are going to do is a completely guided by the employers' trade union movement and the small and medium-sized ones and others, so that whatever government it is in place, the employers' union to break labour rights to the end. I don't want to say big words. Our concept is one: the rights of life, work, struggle and action of the working class and its allies. There's no other way. This is a one-way road.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u232	Mr Yoyakas Vassilis from New Democracy has the floor. Until you get to Stepma, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House is organised, forty-six students and three educational sessions from the 1st Kalamata High School (second section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Yoyaka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u233	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is, first of all, a feature of the speed with which the government makes its programme commitments. We are consistent with our plan for more and better jobs, for better incomes, which will come mainly through boosting investment and supporting private initiative, from creating a more favourable business climate, which is necessary, so that we have growth with numbers above the European average after 2020. This bill attempts to tackle well-known problems in a flexible, practical and in several cases innovative way for Greek things. This is an attempt, for example, by transferring licences for large investment projects to the Ministry of Development and Investment. If the competent authorities do not comply with specific time limits, they do not comply with those deadlines, they shall endeavour to do so by providing for disciplinary penalties. We know, of course, that there is a shortage of staff in many critical services, such as those for the approvals that will eventually be given by the Minister, perhaps, of strengthening the relevant central services with qualified staff. That is why we expect to see how these provisions will work in practice. Another innovation is the parallel mechanism for the control of investment projects and the approval of the production operation of investments. The delegation of these tasks to individuals is expected to dismantle the system. However, as the establishment of audit bodies remains important, I believe, Minister, we should look very seriously at how we improve the National Register of Certified Auditors and who it includes in terms of the faster planning of on-the-spot checks. Innovation is also the digital map by which the complete picture of a property is given, so that the person concerned is aware of the possibilities and limitations of its use and exploitation, such as innovation for Greek things is the facilities and incentives for the businesses that will choose to be active in business parks. Installation and operation costs are reduced, environmental costs are reduced, administrative burdens are reduced. These are some of the changes that we bring to the development side of the bill. We are making it easier for business, without making any reductions in environmental protection, but also having our interest in protecting workers, in jobs, which must be maintained in difficult times. That is why we are allowing workers and employers, only if they want to do so, to decide on the application of sectoral agreements to undertakings with significant real and concrete economic and structural problems. In fact, we are giving the floor to the workers themselves to decide, even on a local basis, if they are excluded from the sector, as long as there is no industry-level agreement. We ensure that the Minister of Labour is able to extend a sectoral contract to the whole sector with elements to be provided by the Labour Register, which is another important innovation. We are taking a first step towards bringing an end to abuses of workers, increasing the hours of overworking, with more serious consequences for undeclared and undeclared work, with improved financial incentives for the recruitment of undeclared workers, with the reward of good employers, who will enter a special register, to have additional incentives and exemptions. We show, in other words, very specifically that business freedom does not mean business immunity, it is not a zero sum game where what the employer wins is what the worker loses. I said it in other words at the beginning: we want to create wealth that will have a real impact on everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to see the Minister of Labour taking steps to put an end to the issue of outstanding pensions and the suffering of hundreds of thousands of pensioners. Over six hundred thousand pension cases and another four hundred thousands of insurance was pending at the end of August, according to a question that we recently tabled. In total, then, it's over a million. We hope and expect that in a maximum of two years, Mr Minister, it will be zero. Here we will be again asking you. Along with the organisational changes that are taking place, along with the decentralisation in the adoption of pension decisions provided for in this bill, it is urgent, Minister, to strengthen the regional offices of the ECA with staff. One of these is the one in Ioannina, which still has serious shortcomings in important work, such as the issuing of successive pensions. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, on this legislative initiative the government shows that it wants and can be dealt with with with the big issues that are asking for solutions and that it is determined to meet the expectations not only of those who trusted it, but of all the Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u234	Mr. Marcos Kostantinos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u235	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard from previous colleagues for the time being, I would say quite well-founded and retained, of the type of 'vote' or of others. I am going to call it a 'currant' bill. And don't hurry to think I'm using improper terms. The rag is a very useful tool in the rural economy and in the home, for which the housewife takes pieces - pieces of various fabrics we do not use and makes a final useful one. Here, then, we have a bill of lame. My choice is at the moment to take the little piece of education. If we generally judge the bill, but also the pieces relating to education, we can safely draw the conclusions that we have, firstly, legislative initiatives characterised by neoliberal conservatism, authoritarianity and cynicism and - to allow me to say the word, I do not want to offend anyone - from incompetence. Starting from the latter, what other than incompetence constitutes two and a half months after legislation have thirty-six articles that correct previous legislative articles of this government? What else? I shall therefore refer to education, and I shall be brief in all chapters. The state of the Minister of Education has been characterized by brutality, I would say, contempt for Parliament. And the last time it has brought in amendments, and now it has not been accepted to convene the Committee on Forums, it has not accepted to join in any consultation with the other parties, even with bodies which have a great deal of involvement in the issues. It adopts amendments to various bills and acts like a bull in a glass shop. "Tavros in a glass shop" means taking private colleges and equating them with the universities. Where are you, honourable Members of the New Democracy, who accept the equation of our universities' diplomas with the private colleges that have their annexes here in Athens? Where's your excellence? Did you throw her behind your back? I hear you say 'I wish it were colleges'. If that's the view of the party, then we're opening another chapter. We then come: Instead of strengthening the IATAP, that is, what recognizes academic equality and then comes to the autonomous section of harmonisation with European legislation, which the previous Minister for Education has adopted and legislated in order to find professional parities, IATA leaves itself in its weaknesses and creates another front, another source of employment rights. Who? The associations of the various sectoral professions. In other words, if I do not have a name and a target - the same club, whether it is public law or, if necessary, - but let us say that it is public law - will undertake to assess the graduates, see if they lack a deficit in their education, ask for additional education and then give them a professional parity. If that's possible! Lawyers will develop a system of examinations to make legal schools a parity. That's why the Minister didn't want to be a law school in Patras. If that's possible! The recent Chamber of Deputies - and the previous speaker was right to - tolerate the three-year degrees with the four-year and five-year degrees of polytechnics in our country. That's a disaster! That is why I say that he is 'a bull in a glass shop'. I'm on my way to the next item. Let's see our degrees and our undergraduate training. Without even seeing one year's experience, the Minister of Education has abolished what we called 'green' schools and'red schools'. In other words, what, with a rational approach and a study, was decided so that in a number of schools that estimated and approximately the number of people involved was exactly the same as the number of seats available so that the dismissal could enter without an examination, was immediately abolished. And all desperation told us the Ministry the other day that we have six thousand applications for relocations. Apparently, we'll have one! Apparently, we have six thousand six hundred applications for relocations! I shall now refer to the next subject on postgraduate studies. That's where the cloak has fallen. At the moment, postgraduate programmes which for some are not an interesting scientific and educational one, but a means of economic return, are being released. These were started by Friends, Anagnostopoulou and after Gabroglou, and are now left unaccompanied, with tuition fees that are not limited and can be upgraded at least every 20%. The result is to increase - and this is certain - the postgraduate programmes, because fellow university teachers will find a way to increase their income, the tuition will also increase, and the final result will be to depreciate this institution, at least in Greek. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] The next two, Mr President - and believe me, I will not delay - are about standards and experimental schools. You all realize - most of you here are parents - that the enforcement of examinations for the introduction of students and students means that children will start schooling from primary school to enter some good schools. They're already happening. That's gonna grow too much to get them into the experimental high school. What does that have to do with it? First of all, our stereotypes say that this is unfair to the lower economic classes. Your stereotypes are not interested in that. But there's something else as a consequence that could touch you. This is the fact that in this way we are building a society, which has a grim reality and reproduces the poor characteristics of man, what we need to take care of as a society to extinguish and manifest through our laws the bright side of human nature, solidarity and not the competition and the law of the jungle, because this way of the jungle is now beginning with the children of primary school. This procedure as it was with the draw had another good product. It showed that regardless of the social context, whoever happened to the right education could progress and move forward. And that's what you're removing. I'll be done in a minute, 'cause these days are now, and we're getting ready for parades. Of course, this is not the first time that the New Democracy has shown that the laws and the Council of State use them as a la carte. I would like to remind you that the Council of State has consulted that course performance is not a crucial criterion for selecting the signifier in primary education. The active relationship of primary school students with national symbols is not consistent with their degrees and it is up to the legislator to formulate other criteria and means of rewarding students’ performance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u236	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u237	Believe me, I'm done. I would like to tell you that in the Experimental University of Thessaloniki, a historic experimental high school -- Alexandros Delmuzos founded it - there were no grades in primary school. I don't know if they exist now, but they weren't there, and that's what Cristidis, Delmuzos and so many other excellent people taught.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u238	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u239	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not as if it were essential that excellence should be a matter of substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u240	Before I give Mr. Papachristopoulos the floor from SYRIZA, I will give the Minister of Labour Mr. Brutsis for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u241	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am tabling a legislative improvement in the draft law which has been tabled, in the sense - let me tell you - of the urgency that the insurance system in our country requires following the data which were brought to Parliament yesterday by the three Members of the New Democracy who have tabled a question - for reasons of ethics I have to mention their names - Mrs Raptti, Mr Yoyakas and Mr Gikalaya. The question of the Members of the New Democracy came to replace a question that SYRIZA should have asked when I challenged SYRIZA, as Minister now, to ask the Ministry of Labour to learn the serious legacy and open wounds that SYRIZA inherited with his inertia towards the new government. So yesterday they came to the House through the honourable Members' question, which mentioned the results of the loose ends left by the SYRIZA legacy. The results are not only revealing, they are tragic. I am obliged to read this information in order to reflect on the memory of both the Members of the New Democracy and all the wings, but also the Greek people. The outstanding main pensions are 189.851. The outstanding supplementary pensions are 87.991. Widow's pensions are 2,688. Recalculation of widow's pensions 82.012. Recalculation of pensions: 222.989.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u242	Do you read this mockery to us?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u243	Outstanding insurance cases: 375.627. Other outstandings: 61.926. Single date: 36.064. Total outstanding: 1.058.748. And you have the enthusiasm with the 'AGEY' brochure to disprove the elements of the Ministry of Labour, which, until yesterday, was the head of Mrs Ahtsioglou! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This, unfortunately, is the situation that SYRIZA left in the Ministry of Labour. And what did he do? The last time he deceived the world with public appearances by saying that the next time there will be no due and outstanding pensions. That's what he said, isn't it? We all remember it. We have a memory and we remember it. And what did he do? Nothing. Inertial, absolutely nothing. Only inertial. And today we are coming for the third time through our intervention of the bill and now with this legislative improvement, which follows on from our other actions, we are stopping all forms of secondment and from the subsidiary fund, from the EIB, and from the main social security institution, EFKA, to any other agency.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u244	I would ask that they be distributed to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u245	Statements require immediate measures, immediate actions. We are already stopping mobility from the Ministry of Labour by the end of 2020. In addition to this provision, we have already taken other measures, and we are speeding up the issue of pensions by two months by another procedure, improving the rate of award. Before, eighty-six employees put them in the pension award, increasing the rate of payment by 17.2%. And not just that. We continue with other actions, which will evolve over the next period in the interests of the workers' insured who demand - and fair! - to quickly retire. And very soon we bring the House the great reform - I think it will take place within time, the services are already speeding up the procedures - 'Digital Pension', so that, from 1 June 2020, about a third of the pensions will come out, issued, paid digitally. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That is the big reform. This solves problems and not in a fat way and words fat, as SYRIZA has done all the previous period and left this heavy legacy. One more thing. How is it possible, SYRIZA's gentlemen, that you, who three months ago, lead the Ministry of Labour to question and give to the AUGI brochure a headline for lies, when they are elements of the employees, the Offices of the Ministry of Labour and not arbitrary elements of each Minister? Finally, why didn't you dare ask a question? Why did you not ask the Ministry of Labour what the reality is and what is the truth and why did you allow the New Democracy Members to ask a question to restore the truth? This is the reality and I call on all the sides of this House to support the legislative initiative of the government which brings about a concrete solution to the big problem, and in particular to the question of mobility - and I ask SYRIZA to vote on it - and the issue of the legislative initiative, which is forbidden from leaving the ECA by any official and the question of stopping your signature, which I have asked for two thousand ECA officials to reduce - elements which I have tabled to Parliament - and the issue of the balance sheets of the ECA. Just think that all the time they talked about those great surpluses, and it turned out there was nothing because they were just talking with simple budgets, and in this bill - I ask SYRIZA to vote for this - we are now having an obligation for the ECA to issue balance sheets. You'll be confronted with history and truth, gentlemen of SYRIZA! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u246	We too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u247	Madam President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u248	I should like to apologise to Mr Papachristopoulos because the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Janakopoulos, has asked for the floor. Here, Mr. Janakopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u249	Now, Madam President, is this possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u250	Ladies and gentlemen, please don't shout! Excuse me, he had an objection, I gave the floor. It's over. I don't understand that behavior.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u251	The New Democracy has, however, been provoked, Madam President. Look, Mr. Brutsis is very little to describe the 'SYNELE' as 'leaf', a newspaper which for seventy years has been giving struggles for democracy, which was the one to be destroyed during the post-World War II period. He's young to call it a "leaf" this newspaper! Mr. Brutsi...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u252	What is this, Madam President? Is it possible to hear such things that our prolongation destroyed democracy after World War II?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u253	It's out of the question!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u254	Mr. Brutsis is very small...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u255	Mr. Janakopoulos, wait a minute, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please. We want the procedure to go properly. I gave the floor. He has the right to say what he wants in these two minutes. We have to listen to him. If we don't agree, we can bring in our objection. Please, if we really want the procedure to go the way it should be in this Chamber. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u256	I propose to Mr Brutsis the next time he puts HUNGARY in his mouth, that he has washed it very well. First of all, that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u257	Mr. Janakopoulos, allow me. It is not a Member's expressions in this Chamber!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u258	Describe this historic newspaper! He's not allowed...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u259	You will allow me to tell you that neither your level allows nor your education to speak in this way.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u260	But you did not make any observation, when it was called "AYSY", to me you are making an observation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u261	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u262	Be careful how Mr. Brutsi speaks here. So the late Minister for Labour did not find a word about the fact that he abolished the unilateral appeal to referees, and he did not find a word about the fact that he abolishes the collective negotiations, which have come back, like the principle of expansion and the principle of more favourable regulation, after leaving the memorandum, but all he did in his previous position was to repeat the relentless lies, which are now only anger to anyone who knows what is happening to the insurance system. Let me remind him, then, that in July ECA replied that the outstanding main pensions were a hundred thousand. Now suddenly they appear as an eighty-nine thousand after Mr Brutsi's own speech, and perhaps I have no confidence in the fact that he has not touched on the evidence. That's the one. Secondly, as far as the rest of his argument is concerned, he added to the main pensions the recalculation of pensions, while he has been told that the recalculation procedure has been completed on several occasions. Therefore, this element is absolutely false and in his knowledge false. And what's he doing next? With another smuggling, in which we have been accustomed to these three months, which is the Minister for the only thing he works for, firstly, to demolish labour rights and secondly, to produce fast news about the insurance system, he adds to it all and any question that has been put to the FBI for any insurance case, and that presents as an outstanding or outstanding pension. So these things may pass to the political audience, to which Mr Brutsi is addressed, but to anyone who has the basic knowledge of what is going on in the country's insurance system is not going to pass. It is good, instead of continuing the make news, to sit and a little to work for the benefit of the insured and not just to abolish labour rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u263	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u264	Madam President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u265	Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u266	Look, I don't want to fall to Mr. Janakopoulos' level. It is known that his style, political morality and his way he speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u267	Absolutely! And yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u268	I shall, however, put it to the essence of what he said. It is incomprehensible, ladies and gentlemen, that a Member of Parliament who has also been a minister, and today it is in the Qualified Opposition to question the elements of the Ministry services. These elements, gentlemen of SYRIZA, which you are questioning through your newspaper "AGEI", in which you give the material to write your micro-party perception, are elements of the services, are not elements of the Minister, Brutsi. Is that what you're questioning? They were four years old. You were lying to public opinion, lying and continuing today as Opposition to operate in the same way. Therefore, the Greek people know them, they know them, they are now watching them. Madam President, I would like to repeat that the figures which have come to Parliament and which have seen the light of publicity, all the evidence of the outstanding pensions, of the main, subsidiary, one-off, are figures which have been made public and brought to the House, following the question of the Members of the New Democracy, the services of the Ministry of Labour, as they have done in every ministry over the years. They are not written and the Minister, the Minister, does not take care of them, but the agencies. And with regard to the recalculation, is it possible today to say these things, Mr. Janakopoulos, and to be exposed? Haven't you been informed? "AUSTRIA" do you read? One of you tells the lie to each other and then you're telling each other a story? For the whole recalculation that kept him in the secret wardrobes and had not been recalculating pensions since January 1, 2019, you were reprimanded and the Citizens' Counselor and pensioners filed complaints against your political leadership. You didn't deliver the recalculation, we made the recalculation. Two hundred and twenty - two thousand nine hundred have not been recalculated. Isn't that a loose end? Shouldn't we say it? Shouldn't it be? Will you do it? But you didn't. That is all, Madam President, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u269	It's not new pensions, it's recalculations.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Madam President. I'm gonna get away a little bit. The bill you're trying to pass - and you have the majority to pass - we'll see it globally. Before I say anything about this bill, I want to remind you of the following. CEDIT SUISSE, the Swiss colossus, published an article two days ago, in my opinion very important. 0.9% of the world's population owns 44% of the world's wealth. And you don't have to tell me. That's for granted and that's the way it is. Second fact. OXFAM, a reliable NGO, has published a list showing that eighty-four people on the planet have assets as many as three and a half billion on the planet. I say this again, on the one hand, they are eighty-four people, and on the other they are the poorest three and a half billion people on the planet. These are features of what unconditional, no limits, no private initiative rules. That's it. Furthermore, a Mr. Swartsman who travels trillions is currently burning the Amazon forest, which was a quarter of the planet's lung. You will tell me: 'It concerns us immediately?' Immediately no, but it is a characteristic example of what it means to submit to money, to the profit of offshore, without limits, without conditions, without rules. Incidentally, Mr. Swartsman is a consultant for President Trump and finances Bolsonar. Another six hundred scientists ten days ago published a work on global warming. I repeat what it means - all these examples are not irrelevant - unconditional submission, without limits, without rules on the private initiative. If you don't know, the planet is being destroyed right now. And he's not ruined by himself. He's ruined because very few, no one controls them, cares for our fates. So six hundred scientists in Barcelona say that - look for them, I'm only talking with evidence - the rise in temperature, which is greater in the Mediterranean than in the rest of the planet, is likely to rise two more points in forty years. What does that mean? The hands of people who live, breathe and die only with money, profit, no matter what else, bring these results. And we come to ours. I want to ask a rhetorical question. I don't want anyone answering it to me. It's my question. You have commanded the country for many years, over forty, altered the PASOK with the New Democracy. You managed - and I say it soon - in these years to reach the ten-year bond - and I always speak with numbers - at 23.9. It's tangible proof of a bankrupt country.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u272	Now how much is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u273	Don't interrupt me. I haven't interrupted you and I'm not interrupting anyone. You managed to make out - I have the post 'DIE WELT' - about 800 billion in economic paradises, to strange banks, offshore and go by saying. Here I am talking about Greece, beyond the debt of 320 billion. Rectoral question: In the three months that you have been ruling, what you have not been able to do in forty years? It's a rhetorical question, people listening to it now. Let's answer it, the one who listens to us. And I come to ours...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u274	What's the question?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u275	The question is whether, in three months' time, you have been able to achieve what you have not achieved in forty years, which you have broken up a country that has literally finished it, you have been bankrupt, you have looted it. I am telling you that I have here in front of me the paper 'DIE WELT'. If you doubt it, I'll give it to you. They left 800 billion. You made it in three months. I leave that question to anyone who wants to answer it. Let's go to the bill, the type of sun. My time is a little too short, and I know it. Anyway, I guess you could show some tolerance because I was patient. Immunity Memorial is this famous bill. You have reached the point - listen a little - to give 'FORTHNET', to give millions to an entrepreneur. I don't have anything with the man. You arrive at the point where you "handle" it around 280 million and take it by 41. And not only will it play a decisive role, almost monopolistic. He's got your bill in it. In fact, you don't even ask him "since you had" not even name the shares. However, to the children of the market, you are asking for 'from now on'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What else are you doing in this bill? Article 16 that you were unable to constitutionally violate, violated by the side street, and do so now that there are records. What kind of notes do you pay off truth? I don't have anything with private colleges, and they do well for some kids and they go, but you have to have money to go to private college. Some can't even reach them. More than that, public relations and a rug do not recognize them either in Britain or in Germany or France. What are you doing with this bill? Are you paying back some bills to some businessmen? It's a rhetorical question. And you are still getting to the point of passing an amendment with retroactive power to protect a mayor, your friend, who was collecting signatures to pass... I think you're out of your mind. At the moment, Athens is experiencing a dump. You are privatising or placing the collection of solid waste on the back, and in fact you are putting all workers at risk in all the municipalities of the country at risk. What for? To put in private. I don't think it's finished with this bill. I don't characterize it as the people who hear it. I want you to know this, you who discovered that the fire in Matti was finally climate change and you took the elections in a fraudulent manner, which you discovered at times that the Treaty of Ambassadors "is very good and we will honor it". But they burned homes, threatened us, became our life hell, and you didn't make the crumbs. Because that's how you got the election. I don't have any more time. I shall conclude, Madam President, and thank you for your tolerance. You still have a problem called'refugee'. Use "immigrant" and so on, as those who come from Africa, who have dictatorships and from Afghanistan, where at thirty-three million are voting for one and are ballots from the government and the Taliban, they are immigrants. I'm repeating this again. You discovered after three and a half years that this was a geopolitical issue - with you, with pleasure - after you said inaccurate, exaggerated, smuggled and put lives at risk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u276	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u277	I shall conclude, Madam President. But you have in front of you a reality that's tough. I am not happy at all because the refugee issue is national. It's a huge matter and you don't know what to do. Receive the nonsense you cultivated. None of your mayors, not one, wants one of these people. It is a big problem and we should all go together - I say it and I mean it - in the European Union to push. When, on September 29th, you were held a Maltese, Italian, German, and France, you were absent. I don't know what else you can do. You'll know your SYRIZA is in agreement with this problem. Do what you need to do, because I say this again: you are shaking not only one country into the air, but an entire European Union. Thanks and apologies for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u278	Ladies and gentlemen, there is no tolerance, but not so much time. We're cutting time from our colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, forty-seven students and students and three teachers - attending them from the 1st Kalamata High School (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Georgiadis has the floor for twenty-five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u279	I won't need it, Madam President. In any case, we have said so thoroughly in both the committee and the first reading, both on the articles and on the second reading. I think that with colleagues we have actually exhausted the bill. I shall say a few words about what has just been said, for reasons of historical order. Speaking of any SYRIZA MEP about conditions of violence and anger against MPs, which have led to a point of life becoming hell, as was previously heard by Mr Papachristopoulos, is a monument of tribulation. I just want to remind my younger colleagues that in order for the PSI to be voted in February 2012, we had been set up a carauli in Kifissia and Queen Sofia in the traffic lights and flew stones in every parliamentary car and the police put us in the House from the National Garden, backwards from the statue of Truman, because otherwise we could not get to the House from the world around - and that night they burned the film "Atticon" and took over the center of Athens. It was the age of the indignant. It was a time when Mr. Tsipras justified the violence, saying that it is fair to have a popular anger. Mr. Katrugalos on a television show - I was next to him, and I had really stayed on track - justified some violence, as a sign of the wrath of society. It is extremely happy that this time is gone. It is even happier that Mr Tsipras and SYRIZA have matured when they found out how easily the river of populism and anti-parliamentary violence can turn against themselves, as happened at the time of the Prespecies Agreement rallying, where the New Democracy never justified any act of violence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u280	You said 'the traitors'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u281	We never and certainly are not traitors and we never told you. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u282	You said it was treacherous.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u283	As Mr. Tsipras found with the lady who extinguished him on the plane the day before yesterday and watched the video, a lady who, a few years ago, supported us, now - I know - the Golden Dawn and who was inside the dancers of the Constitution on the day of "no", the proud. I say that just to remember what we have lived. Therefore, accepting from SYRIZA any kind of criticism that our party has helped make their lives hell in their homes, etc. It is a monument of courage. As to whether we took the elections in a fraudulent manner, as it has been said, these days, ladies and gentlemen, we hear one after another the high-ranking SYRIZA officials explain to us how uncomfortable they were to govern in 2015 and how much they had fallen victim to the product of their delusion. That is, since they themselves had delusions, obviously what they said to the Greek people to vote for them, it was wrong. Admittedly accept their good intention that it was wrong negligently, that it was wrong and not deceitful, but wrong in the worst and best case of them, and that the Greek people lied in 2015, that they have now accepted it. So, let's leave all this behind. You have ruled and I believe to some extent that has matured you. I say to some extent - and I come to the bill - because I cannot answer the SYRIZA rapporteur on the bill now. That's our bill. It's a big bill. I've been a 12-year MP. I have to say that it is one of the largest legislative bills to be voted on in the Greek Parliament and I am very proud of it. Do you believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it would be possible for such a bill, with such specific practical and detailed provisions, to prepare itself within a hundred days since we have come to power? The best proof of how well-prepared we were and how much we worked before the elections, so that we could honour the confidence of the Greek people, if he decided to give it to us, is this bill. What's this bill doing, Mr. Katrin? It is coming to resolve a number of practical issues. I told you in committee myself in my first speech. You returned it to me as a charge. I want to tell colleagues that too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u284	As an admission.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u285	No, it's not an admission. The admission is when you admit a mistake. This is not a mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u286	A weakness.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u287	It's not a weakness either. I am extremely proud of the nature of this bill. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I do not call on colleagues to vote because of party discipline. I call on my fellow Members to vote for it with pride, because this bill has dozens of provisions that make people's lives easier. In fact, the apologies in Greek society are the colleagues who will not vote for this bill, because they should go to explain to their fellow citizens why they decide to make their lives more difficult and I explain: Is the JRC entitled to vote against this bill? Of course, yes. Why is he entitled? Because this bill, ladies and gentlemen from the JRC, is a bill that works and its thoughts are to facilitate the capitalist economy. So you say, "we deny capitalism, we are communists and we want a central design of the economy", yes, you have every right to vote against it, because you disagree in principle, you disagree at its core. The others ruled as capitalists, but they do the same! How do they vote against it? So why is Mr. Pappas voting against a bill that facilitates business activity when he, as Minister for Digital Policy, said that we should facilitate business activity? It can't be done! It's automatically insane. But your opposition role was responded indirectly by Mr Drasakis to the committee yesterday, because you have come to vote against and denounce articles by Mr Drasakis. This really is above rivers. But I would say - and that is what I thought - that after the first-reading school, there will have been some kind of co-responsibility and that after all you will sit down and read this bill. You insist on the same line and I will prove it to you. You have come, Mr Pappa, the SYRIZA rapporteur, and you have raised two main objections. In the first objection - and you even consumed several minutes - you mentioned the fact that Mitsotakis talks to us about lignite mining and clean energy, while we, in our bill, integrate lignite mining into this bill and development law. You were also answered in the debate on the articles and answered by the WWF and answered by me, but you insist - read the Minutes to see - to have the exact same accusation. "But how can Mr Mitsotakis speak of clean energy and you subsidise lignite?" Well, we don't subsidise lignite is the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u288	You didn't hear me. You pulled it, and you did it very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u289	If we pulled it out and did it well, why did your criticism of your first talk? The criticism should have been "you were in the mood and let me take it after our fuss that you took it back". You didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u290	Class 9, why didn't you pull her back?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u291	Let's go to second. The second is even more obvious. He says Mr Papapas, SYRIZA's rapporteur, "We disagree with outsourcing". In other words, by allowing private audit companies to control and certify the investment, and whether or not it can join, i.e. disbursement - more correctly - the amount of development law. Because, in addition to all others - says Mr Pappas - the company itself cannot control and the company itself has made the company subject to development law. It cannot - Mr Papapas said - be the same person, company and control and control. I read from Article 2(3), page 437. This is a House and we must also read what we are voting on and what we are voting against. ‘The carrying out of audits of investment projects by auditors, accountants or audit firms, as defined in this Law, shall be considered to be compulsory audits. Occupied auditors, accountants or audit firms carrying out audits on investment projects as defined in the provisions of this Law shall apply mutatis mutandis to the investment project operator the provisions on the prohibition of non-control services applicable to the carrying out of compulsory auditing of entities in the public interest.’; Let me say that it's legal, because the law is necessarily legal, and you couldn't understand it? But if you were to go to the explanatory statement referred to in Article 2(3), you would read very easily and understand what you were anxious about. I'll take it, too. So what does it say in the explanatory statement? That the above auditors apply the provisions on the prohibition of non-controlling services applicable to the carrying out of compulsory control of entities of public interest in order to avoid situations of conflict of interest to the person of the verifier and to ensure the public interest. In other words, the law we have brought has already responded to the anguish of SYRIZA's rapporteur. As long as he'd read it. But here, we have this oxymomile, ladies and gentlemen. We are allegedly pretending that time has not reached us, that the government has not done a good legalization, but has taken it quickly. Yes, sir. We've brought it into public consultation since August. It's been not a week, the law says, but a month and a half. We went to the normal parliamentary procedure. First reading, hearing of bodies - seventy bodies came here - on the articles of debate, second reading and now plenary. Uh, but how long does SYRIZA need to study the bill and at least the criticism he's going to make to us will be on the bill we're voting on and not on an imaginary text that they have in mind? That's very disappointing. And it is very disappointing for a basic reason, ladies and gentlemen. Because we will never be able as a society to consult human and civilised if we do not decide - and this is an invitation to Census and Elassonian Anti-Policy - not to opposition to everything. I understand the need for parties to exist. And in their efforts to exist, they must also make opposition even to things that they may not trust. This is happening in democracies. But be careful now where we are. We are in the first steps of a new government. The people made a very clear statement on 7 July. The New Democracy has taken self-reliance. Next election will be in 2023, in four years. We all understand that the achievement of the increase of our Gross National Product is not a matter and bet of the Minister of Investment Adonodos Georgiados. And if Adonid's career and career don't go well, the Greek people will survive. The world isn't broken. Nor is it just a bet by Prime Minister Mitsotakis. There were previous governments, there will be further governments. The development, ladies and gentlemen, is a bet of the Greek people, it is a matter of national survival. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] If we cannot attract foreign direct investment, where we remain in the European Union, if we cannot increase our Gross National Product, how can we obtain the necessary resources to pursue a demographic policy, to pursue a defence policy, to pursue a foreign policy, to pursue an educational policy? If we cannot get our own real money, ladies and gentlemen, our nation will erase, our children will leave abroad and mothers will cry at home when they talk to them on the phone. Do we want to reverse this? This, ladies and gentlemen, will not be reversed either easily or in a magical way. It'll only be reversed if we decide to play with the rules of the game. And what do the rules say? That the investor today has many options. There's a lot of oranges making oranges, Mr. Katrin. See what happened in the case of 'VOLKSWAGEN'. The news has just passed that "VOLKSWAGEN" is thinking - it has not yet been decided - to cancel the investment in Turkey, two states have come out - Romania and Bulgaria - and they are publicly competing for which of the two will give more incentive to "VOLKSWAGEN", so that the car industry can go home. And while Bulgaria started with 160,000,000 as an incentive, and then Romania gave more, within one day it decided 260,000,000 as an incentive. Why? Because today, ladies and gentlemen, in fact, investors can go to any country they want. What's the criterion for deciding where they're going now? The opportunity, whether they can do their job, whether they make money. Listen here and something shocking about you on the left. Yeah, all investors, you know, are speculators. Everybody! Injurious investor does not exist. So, what's this bill doing? This bill tells investors: "Lords, forget about the old Greece you heard when you arrived, you will be in trouble with courts, towns, archaeologies, with bureaucracy. In this Greece now... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I'll raise it now. I'm not saying you didn't read it, but you're doing it for propaganda reasons. We say, then, that from now on, in this Greece that we are building, whoever wants to act will be able to do so. SYRIZA now says: "Abrogate Archaeology and you say to go to build on ancient times." I think Mr. Janakopoulos said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u292	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u293	If you didn't say so, someone else would have said so. Maybe Mr. Pappas. I'm not sure. You're friends, someone said it from both of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u294	They didn't say. They meant it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u295	I'm sorry, guys, let's talk seriously. If a Georgian comes in for investment and decides to legislate to dig and put the buildings on the ancients...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u296	No way.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u297	I'm telling you I did it. To forget the Greek lawsuit, and when you accused me of ancestor and archaic, to forget everything and to say that I legislate - especially - on ancient times. Yes, sir. And let's say that the MPs, unbelievable beings like some - some in here, they voted for it and they didn't get any news. Could it be? Don't you know that there's constitutional protection for the ancients? Can a simple legislator convince someone that he can legislate to build on ancient times, why does he want to do so? Guys, the criticism must be serious! What does the ancient bill say? The Greek people must hear it. You haven't read it. It says that when you are dealing with a PPP or a big investment, a sixty days period is set in which the Archaeological Service should answer to the investor what to do, so that he can legally proceed with his investment, that is, if he has to pay a excavation, if he has to move the investment, if we have to give him another place, because this space is of enormous value anciently and nothing can be done there. So answer him. We're not going to tear down the ancients! Because today someone goes to make an investment, goes to the Archaeological Service and can wait, to get an answer, two or three years. And I ask, Mr Catarini - let them whine whatever happens - what exactly do you disagree? Don't you want there to be a deadline for the Archaeological Service to answer? You're going to Elijah, you want to tell your voters that if they go to make an investment, that the Archaeological Service doesn't have any timeliness and answer anytime? Is that what you're going to tell your voters? You can't tell your voters, neither you nor anyone. And what we have put in, not only does it destroy our ancient and cultural heritage, but it protects them. And you know why he protects them, so we can come to who he really cares about ancients and cultures? For as long as there is no clear legal framework, our society sees ancients as a threat. In the Greek province they make their crosses do not fall into ancient times. And if they fall, they either tear them down or they disappear them. Because, they tell you, if they get news that we have ancient, we're destroyed. For what? Because we made the Greeks view the ancient threat!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u298	They're taking them home.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u299	They take them home, as you say. If, however, we made a clear framework, such as this one, and we said to each Greek, "You will not destroy, my child, if you find the ancient and the statements and come the Ministry of Culture, you may even have a profit, make your village more familiar, make your region known", then people will love the ancients and protect the cultural heritage instead of destroying it. An argument seriously from the Opposition why it is wrong to set the sixty-day time-limit so that it is compulsory for the service to answer and to what is bothering you, I throughout this debate have heard nothing but general austerity. Uh, with general exodus, I'm sorry, we're not going forward. What's wrong with this bill, so I don't get tired of you. What is the other criticism that has been heard? Heard the criticism it is, he says, an interministerial bill. How did Mr. Janakopoulos and Mr. Castanides say so I wouldn't blame him? Immigrants. I will not repeat that the inter-ministerial bills were common practice in SYRIZA. I'm over it. I want to explain why it's not. Looks like it's, but it's not. On SYRIZA, when we said "multi-project", what did we mean? Many bills in one, namely that various ministries to save time parliamentary, instead of bringing their own bills, united them in a bill and among them had nothing to do with it and nothing to do with it. Is that the case bill? Of course not. Because what other ministries - the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Digital Policy, the Ministry of the Environment - have put in this bill a single article, the only criterion, to get an article, is whether or not it contributes to development, that is, if it accelerates...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u300	Is the municipality's scandal a criterion for development? The fact that we erase criminal prosecutions?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u301	Mr. Colleague, please. Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u302	I always answer, but with Mr. Femello, I'll tell you what has happened. Just now, when you weren't in the Chamber, I fell victim to a terrible vulgarity that forced me to go back to see the video again, to see if it was really like I said or not. And unfortunately, it's for you. It's the eleventh minute of my speech. Mr. Famelos came to the House a moment ago and said to me: "You are a liar because when I told you in committee about the gold bill, you told me no. So what interests are you serving to lie to the House?" I told him and reminded him that in the committee of the House I told him exactly what was going on. I told him it was about gold. I mean, he blamed me for no reason. And instead of saying an apologies with dignity, that he was confused, he continues this lipstick. So I'm not answering you, sir. Until you apologize, I will never answer you in the next four years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u303	I'll take the floor to answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u304	However, if I do not apologise for something you see in the Minutes of the House and in the video, I will not answer you for the next four years either in question or in anything. I won't have anything to do with you. Because with a man who comes here alone to slander in such a way that a colleague of his, I have nothing to do with it, and I am very sorry. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It would be honest of you to say that you were wrong. But you don't even have that honesty inside you. I am coming back now, ladies and gentlemen. So this bill is what it does. Whether it is at the level of mobile phone antennas or it is at the level of recognition of professional rights of colleges, whether or not it is at the level of the Ministry of the Environment for the Digital Charter, or it is at the level of the Ministry of National Defence with the amendment for the Scaramaga shipyards, what is in place, the whole has a single criterion, whether or not all this speed up the development of the Greek economy and the answer is that they speed it up. That is why we are proud of this bill, which is why it is a good bill and that is why you should support it! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Amendments will be made in a few minutes. He's on his way. It's just a matter of minutes. I'll take the floor later to explain them. For both, however, I would like to make a special report and give you the time to place you. The one amendment that will come, the Minister - for my amendment I am talking about - will be the Single Authorisation Authority. He'll be here, I told you. We told the committee that I would bring her last week. If you remember, the debate began from the hearing of bodies and the positioning of the Chairman of the Technical Chamber of Greece, Mr. Stasinou. We'll have it in a little while, and I'll wait for officer opposition to be deployed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u305	The Broadcasting Amendment will only concern equipment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u306	This is going to be a legislative improvement. Sure. What we said is true. That's right. We will also have a second amendment which I would like to explain why we are bringing it. It's about Golden Visa. I imagine that the issue of Golden Visa, you all know it. It began by law of Mr.Metarakis at the end of 2014, but bloomed, dominated during the era SYRIZA which was the government that followed. Many thousands of mainly Chinese - not only Chinese, but also other nationalities, but let us not fool ourselves, the Chinese are very big customers of the program - buying these Golden Visa through the use of POS, automatic machinery. There was a involvement in the use of these machines. An entrepreneur who had a grey zone was accused of stopping operations through POS. My initial interest in this matter came when I got Golden Visa's data and saw that after that milestone, the programme was almost frozen. A programme that had brought nearly one billion euros for the Greek people, the Greek economy, had stopped. However, something much worse proved to be along the way. A number of decentralised administrations, following the prohibition of the use of the POS, began to adopt decisions to cancel the Golden Visa and thus the Chinese investors had to demand their money back from the Greek State. But this could cause great damage to the Greek economy. We have received an opinion from the Bank of Greece with the signature of the committee and Mr Alevizatou that no European or national legislation is violated by the use of POS, which is considered to be completely legal, standard and transparent bank transaction in the document of the Bank of Greece. We will therefore bring the amendment now that it will redeploy the use of POS. And we're making a second adjustment to Golden Visa and I'll tell you immediately why we're doing it. One of the problems observed in the program was that 90% of real estate sales went to Attica. SYRIZA tried to regulate it by allowing a way out to invest both in bonds and in shares in the Stock Exchange. But it wasn't very interesting after all. Investors prefer to buy real estate. The direction of all the people who want to invest in real estate through Golden Visa in an area of the country and especially in Athens, not even in Attica in general, has led to a much greater increase in the normal value of real estate in this area, which is beginning to make the market difficult from the back. It raises rents, creates problems, etc. We are therefore giving the Ministers for Development and Finance the right within the amendment by authorizing us to fix no lower amount - 250,000 will remain as a threshold - but a higher amount per region. For example, I am telling you now and what is our intention: Attica has a higher amount of other regions - we will see what it will be, the criterion will be those that have lower economic growth, lower GDP and therefore have a greater need for investment in real estate up to this value of 250 and 400 000 - to be at a lower price so that we can direct buyers to other regions of the country first to sell their real estates and people in other regions of the country who have no benefit to date from this successful programme, and secondly, to unload Attica, which really has the negative dimensions of a positive measure, absolutely legitimate and welcome by the Greek economy. For the other amendments, I will speak when they are all coming, but that is what I tell you right now, so that you can have the time to think about it, and I will bring you the text soon. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u307	And we, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u308	Madam President, I would like the floor to make a clarification because it has been mentioned to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u309	Mr. Femmelle, I think you're on the subject. You said your opinion. Allow me, because I am chairing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u310	Madam President, we will resolve this with Mr Georgiadis. I'll read the Practical and close it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u311	Good. It's over. After you read the Practical, that's it. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u312	Mr Georgiadis, because I do not want to charge you, but I do not want you to use excuses tomorrow, to say that you have said so in committee. I'll read through the phone if you'll excuse me. Now let's go to what it's all about. 'He said Mr Famelos 'Gold is excluded?'. "No, I didn't say gold was excluded. I said that coal is excluded." So you're not saying it's part of it. You said it wasn't excluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u313	Mr. Femelle...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u314	Wait a minute. I read from the Minutes. I respect you, and I want you to respect the process. So you go on and say, "The Union of companies that extract the marble and ask us, etc." You don't want the marble to come in? The committee's ends, Mr. Georgiadis, and we're looking to find the codes, don't have any misunderstandings, and the marble and granite codes are with the gold ores. Let us make it clear, Madam President. And I inform you here that first code 7, which is gold mining, do not have marble and granite - is code 8 - and furthermore that code 9 is a means of supporting drilling for hydrocarbons and transporting gold mine bazaars. So we say: To clarify your political position for 7 and 9, that you choose them to be, so that the House does not mislead that because of marble and granite the gold enters. Do you get that clarification and political responsibility? On the basis of the Minutes. I didn't mislead anything, Mr. Georgiadis. Now is it clear what you said in the Minutes? That is what we are asking for, the political responsibility of 7 and 9. Not because of marble and granite. Political choice of your government. The gold mines, the hydrocarbon drilling support, and the gold mine balls. Take a seat. And if I said anything more, I recognize it, but I didn't say. That's exactly what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u315	Minister, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u316	Madam President, I'm gonna need a minute. I think we're big people and we can get human beings together. You asked me: 'Gold is excluded?' Answer: No, it's not excluded. What does this House understand? Are we really having this conversation?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u317	You can't mine him because of the marble.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u318	Is it a political will?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u319	I repeat: Marbles brought them as an example then on how this article was started. I didn't say I expressed my political will to exclude gold. I said backwards, it's not excluded. You came here and accused me of misled the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u320	Mr. Comrade, can we hear the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u321	Secondly, I think we now understand. I repeat, Mr. Femelle, making a mistake is human, it's not shameful. And I've done a lot in my life. But you get up and tell someone with decency, that's what I was wrong, but I have one, two, five objections, fair.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u322	The nine?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u323	I have never misled the House, because I have explicitly stated that gold is not excluded from development law. What's excluded now? What we expressly write in it is anything about lignite and hydrogen. We are expressly writing this in the explanatory statement. In the article it says: "Anything about lignite and hydrogen", I tell you to know it and exist in the minutes of the House, as a session of our bill and political will, that anything, whether it is accompanying or not accompanying, which concerns lignite and hydrogen, is excluded from development law. It's over and out. I'm telling you, excluding development law. We will not sign any accession to the development law, nor will there be any supportive work on lignite and hydrogen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u324	Will you take the nine off?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u325	Mr Colleague, allow me, but I will not allow this kind of debate to take place.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u326	One clarification, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u327	Your parliamentary representative who will shortly be given the floor may be placed on the subject. Isn't that right? Thank you very much. The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, Mr. Hetas, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u328	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, I was looking at the massive file you had in front of you here, and you explained to us the bill. Let us say, of course, that in consultation the pages were a hundred and twenty, Mr Georgiadis, it was not all that package that you showed and I scared, the truth is. There have been seven hundred pages of annexes in the course. In consultation, of course, it was a hundred and twenty.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u329	The consultation wasn't over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u330	The consultation was not over, but the consultation was a hundred and twenty, and seven hundred suddenly the pages became. You said that you were ready before you were born, that is, before you became a government, because such a bill of seven hundred pages is not prepared in a hundred days. But you brought it up at 12 o'clock on Tuesday and we had a committee on Thursday. Since you were ready, why didn't you upload it a week earlier, have time to process it? You also referred to foreign direct investment. I wanted to say some other things, but since I was lucky to follow you at the Step of the House, after your own suggestion of foreign investment and foreign direct investment, I shall refer to them. You know what? We have another philosophy for foreign investment. For us it is not a foreign investment, whether directly or indirectly, the sale, for example, of PPC. As Mr. Villard keeps saying, when I have a house, and I sell my furniture to save it, I will sometime stay without furniture. VOLKSWAGEN seeks to invest, left Turkey. Why don't we create ideal conditions for a colossus company, bring it to Greece and invest a German colossus in Greece? These are the investments. But how can these companies come to invest with the tax regime in our country and when you 100% of the tax advance do that 95%? Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, 100% did it 95%! How can these companies invest? These are serious investments and you know that, Mr. Georgiadis. With regard to the content of the provisions of the bill, our special speaker has been mentioned in detail and I think he will do so in his second language. However, in some articles, as in Article 190 for online gambling, I cannot help talking about them. I'll talk about it, because it's timely. Reiterate, Mr Georgiadis, the nightmare that destroyed many families in our country, the "fruits". Do you remember that old fruit, the "fruits"? You legalize this destructive addiction. You define a three, four million talisman to legitimize it, and now what are you doing? You wrap this black hole in online gambling with a robe of legality with these three - four million. But in this hole many Greeks will fall, Mr. Georgiadis, and unfortunately also minor Greeks. Because you know very well that in online gambling, and not only, unfortunately, our minors and children are very closely involved. Unfortunately - and I am not just saying this - our country is in the first place among European countries in betting and gambling to the sixteen years old. On the basis of a relatively recent pan-European survey, by ESPAD, for modern teenage dependencies is more than double - listen - the proportion of adolescents in Greece who say they have been betting online. But rather for minors who will gamble freely, Mr Georgiadis, there is not the same sensitivity that there is for these minors who go to see "Joker" in cinemas. If that's not hypocrisy, then what is hypocrisy? Can we get the sixteen-year-olds out of Joker in the movies, but at the same time, these kids can gamble freely online? Mr Lazarides, if you don't like what you hear, you can continue reading. Anyway, it's good to see you here. It's not very common for you to be present, so just sit there and listen to them. Article 158 for the media: With regard to this sector, as described in the bill, we will not know who is behind these companies. Aren't we gonna know? We know, in other words, why we know who you have good relations with, and who you're doing photographic devices, and who helps who, of course, helps each other, washs one hand, Minister. And to tell you that the culmination of your bill is that the main shareholders and shareholders of the media are exempted from submission "from the outset". So we don't know where the money came from. It is a brilliant thought, indeed, which obviously promotes transparency. Congratulations! Not knowing where that money comes from! Finally, I would like to refer to work, namely the possibility of exempting certain undertakings from the application of sectoral agreements. In other words, any trade union will come and set a minimum wage without regard to sectoral contracts. We now go to something else and to what happened yesterday in my constituency, in the 2nd district of Thessaloniki, in particular in the beautiful ones of the other Brasna. It was an all-night thriller in Brasna, where people's blocks, people living there on a daily basis banned the Samos refugees, these illegal immigrants carried by the New Democracy, which had and had the obvious idea - and I wonder how you are implementing it - the spread of illegal immigrants from the islands to the mainland. The civil battle has begun, I will say, against this disgrace, which you continue too. They're talking about red October all the media. Over the last fifteen days there have been five thousand illegal immigrants on our island and they are thirty - four thousand five hundred with rough calculations. This is the negative record so far on our islands. Today, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank both the SYRIZA party and the New Democracy party, because after a very long period of time we have finally despised in this Chamber - and I think it will be in the Greek - the word 'lathonian', which, as many times as the Greek Solution used, you have put us in the corner and you have shown us. Mr. Janakopoulos has spoken of the smugglers. Since there are no smugglers, Mr. Janakopoulos, how do you use it? Of course we have been justified by Mr Georgiadis who says that there are of course. So, because I raised and found the "ladder" in ancient Greek - smuggling, mistaken, wrong, from there it comes out - it's the first synthetic of words and expresses something that is secretly done. That's what the dictionary says, if you're looking at it. It says examples below and listen a little, because we stick to words and lose the essence: Lathing reader, smuggler, smuggling, smuggling, illegal immigration. It's called the dictionary. He's got the nerve dictionary saying illegal immigration. It's not just the Greek solution. Also poaching, poaching, poaching, poaching. So, there are these people. I also told you, ladies and gentlemen, that I was hearing voice statements. Unfortunately, I cannot put them in the Minutes here, nor can I make them play, but Mr Mitsotakis said beforehand - I heard it a moment ago - that the islands could not be decongested by flows from the islands to the mainland. They must return to Turkey from the islands. The current Prime Minister, of course, said in election, because he is now talking about multiculturalism. Now he's talking about proudly young people, about integrating these people into the Greek society. And of course, the time will come when the children of these illegal immigrants, once they are integrated into schools, will lift the Greek flag in schools. That's what Mr. Mitsotakis says. Ladies and gentlemen, brief parentheses as head of sport. At some point, we were informed that Mr. Aegeanakis' bill on sport would come. Yesterday we saw once again the very ugly face of violence. We've become an international resilient in all the media: In the Champions Lig race, we've had tramps, bats, wood, open heads, blood, handbags, everything. There were dozens of minors on the field. Our tongue has haired to talk about fighting athletic violence. And we ask what you do, when you do, how you do it. Mr. Ignace, let's talk. We've been aware of the issues, twenty-six years I've been doing this job, I'm a sportswriter, I know them from the good and the backwards. Get out of your offices, come meet us, have a serious conversation. They have Skopje, ladies and gentlemen, and - whether you like it or not - the Skopje have unfortunately given lessons of democracy in response to the polls, while you are shaking at the same time - because this is a very negative development for you, unfortunately, it is a difficult situation to find out whether or not this agreement, which will be abolished, has been abolished. In any case, it has never been implemented. Or do you think the Skopje have respected this agreement since the day the gentlemen signed it from here on the left? The sign, for example, in the statue of Alexander the Great from somewhere written with little stamps, as if it were a darkness, within forty-five minutes, it was unleashed. And a lot more. Now the game's on. The Greek Solution calls for the convening of the Council of Political Heads of the Parties on such a serious issue as the Prespecies Agreement. Yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, we were returning - I am going to another topic - to the high level of political confrontation, as the two sides of the left and right here in Parliament have been used to here for so many years in the committee for Mr Papagelopoulos. It was watched by Mr. Villardos, who - you've met the man, has a civil courtesy - who stayed open by his mouth watching what was taking place there among political representatives of the Greek Parliament. 'revanists', 'trabucus', and what was not said in there. You said nothing to us in committee of course about the more than two billion lost by the funds and also lost by the Greek people, about 2.5 billion. And you've again served in a theatrical game. You remembered the past again, but you didn't do the most: put Mr. Tsipras back in the dash, and we'll be with you to get this case to the end. Either it turns out to be a construction or it turns out to be a scandal. And I close with the Prime Minister's presence yesterday in northern Greece. I could not go into that. As far as northern Greece is concerned, in my region and Thessaloniki I have a particular sensitivity. I will not say that he visited the Prime Minister's office, who had won it and considered it a funny case and was a client service wash, etc. I'm not going in there, I'm going over it, we've been through it before. He maintained it, "the other side", he did fine, in fact, move on. So he held a meeting on the progress of the works in Thessaloniki. The Thessaloniki metro - listen a little to what he said, are his statements, I'm not saying them - will work entirely in April 2023! Four more years, sucker Thessalonikius, wait! The OSH fleet has already strengthened, but will see a significant increase in early 2020! The upgrading of the region will be auctioned in the new year! Three "will", Prime Minister, within half an hour you visited Thessaloniki. Still, the Thessalonians what they didn't hear yesterday! Thessaloniki, Mr. Mitsotakis, has left without buses. You must have taken the service car to you, and it was nice to do, because you're Prime Minister, but there are no buses. And at that time you told us about the fly out. Do you know what fly out is? Thessaloniki only has a bus, nothing else. So the fly over will be auctioned at the end of the year! And as he proudly told us, Mr Simopoulos, he contacted the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Karamanlis. And Mr. Karamanlis and you will work hard together to build this airspace.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u331	He's handling it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u332	The roads are not, he says, the responsibility of Mr. Karamanlis' ministry. I tabled a question a few days ago to your Minister for the Carmiliola Perea - Machinery road and asked him if and when there would be a new engraving.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u333	He's peripheral.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u334	Yeah. And Mr Karamanlis said to me, "I'm sorry, sir, wrong, please speak elsewhere." He didn't show any sensitivity. You'll make the fly over. For now, we don't have to move. Get a bus to get the poor Thessaloniki to work. We'll wait another four years for the subway. We've taken enough 'will' even of course with the fly over we'll have solved all our problems! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u335	We too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Kotsos from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u336	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law with the excellent title - and I would say ambitious - 'I invest in Greece'. You will allow me to consider this bill as a flag for the ideological identity of the New Democracy, the New Democracy that trusts humans, who believes in the private economy, which encourages investment that triggers entrepreneurship. For the New Democracy which opposes stateism, which is trying to speed up the slow, stiff and inefficient state of our state, the New Democracy that wants to simplify procedures, enable people who are trying to find fertile ground in our country. To turn the Greek economy into higher and long-term sustainable growth, political reforms, fundamental investments and a long-term strategy are needed. That's exactly what this bill comes to do. On these issues it comes to answer this bill, in a country that can be "exaggerated" that is the last country with a Soviet-type structured economy, with an economy that is constantly evacuated from state mechanisms, freeing forces and enabling the private sector to create. That is why we, as politicians, must create a national consensus environment, which is a difficult one, but we must achieve it, because a successful and sustainable innovation system is created only through a long-term strategy, consistently from the bottom up, as we have said, in a process that we handled agricultural programmes, such as the LEADER programmes, programmes that are created by society itself and which go up and not from downwards, and create a favourable environment in a process that is passed by the Greek economy, so that we can really make it possible from the investment in Greece to move to a pro-investment climate. The main areas that need initiatives are the improvement of the regulatory and business environment and the reform of the research and development system. This bill aims at macroeconomic stability, reliable economic and fiscal policies, stable and clear fiscal policy, another maliciousness of the Greek state, simplification and codification of legislation, a single digital map, business parks, digital governance, facilities for the use of the environment and energy, but protecting the environment, smoothing collective labour relations with the country's international commitments, addressing undeclared work, exploiting modern technologies in administrative justice and developing a national programme aimed at developing and exploiting all available resources. All these provisions define the ultimate state, with the organisation, operation and transparency of the government, the government institutions and central government and are consistent with the plasticity and effectiveness of control and supervision of businesses, with the aim of always attracting strategic investments. In particular, the single digital map aims to upgrade public administration and economic development through the creation of an electronic base in spatial data to provide comprehensively valid and institutionally secure information that enhances economic life, attract investment and eliminate bureaucracy and corruption. Of course, the public administration must succeed in speeding up the procedures of the judiciary, for investments that have been going through many years of eating there. And here you will be allowed to pass on a personal experience of modern Greek abadirism and Greek abadirism, which I experienced as mayor in my area at Mousaki Karditsas. An undertaking that today prides itself in producing the best bottled water in the world - since the first time I took over the municipality's administration in 2003 - has found it involved in the courts and, in particular, in the Council of State, after appealing for three - literally - inhabitants of the region. Do you know how long this court dispute lasted? Ten years. What was the result? To force the businessman desperate and disappointed, due to the many loans he had from the banks, to sell around 49% of his business to foreign investors. He managed to run his operation after ten years. What did he offer to the small local economy? Forty-five jobs in a village of three hundred inhabitants, about 150,000 euros a year in the municipality as a reward fee and, of course, a last name product, which is now advertised - I do not know if I have the luxury to say the name of the company - the region. Please tell me what serious and wise businessman, when he has these difficulties in front of him, can he come to invest in Greece? To develop jobs, but also to risk the same, always based on profit? Because at some point we have to disintegrate that concept too. For long periods, the concept of profit was an incriminable concept. For all this, then, the will of all is needed. For the conversion of the productive model of the Greek economy, from the failed introvert character to the outbreak of the crisis, to the extroversion of innovative and competitive character. You know, ladies and gentlemen, a philosopher of Germany from the Baden-Württemberg region says: where there is a risk, there is hope for rescue. Well, our country has been in danger for a long time. The rescue hope is here the government. It's the New Democracy, and I'm sure we'll make it. Because we are firmly committed to this, and that is why we support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u337	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr Lazarides has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I am sure you all know Samuel Beckett's play "Watching God" and I am sure you know that Godo never comes. That's how the investments in our country were in SYRIZA. We waited and never came. Why is that? The reasons are many. There were the timeless structural pathogens of the Greek state, which let us be honest, not all SYRIZA created them. The main reason, however, was the ideological allergy of all the members of today's Major Representation, even in any phrase it contained the word "investment". After all, we must not forget that Mr Tsipras' government, with his own tolerance, if not inducement, systematically sedated the largest investment in Greece, that of the Greek. It is the same person who had said those heavy words: "If I sign privatisations like the Greek one, you better vote Samaras". Finally, Greek women and Greeks, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, voted Kyriakos Mitsotakis because they believe in investment, because they want growth everywhere, development for everyone. It is no coincidence, therefore, that under the SYRIZA Government few investments have gone ahead, what our Government left you, for example the privatisation of the fourteen airports, which you have spent as a civil opposition. On the other hand, investors fleeing and accumulation of lost opportunities were observed. A little missed, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, to leave the "ELDORADO GOLD" from Greece, while many companies carried cannon for your day. I submit to the minutes a document with large companies that left Greece on SYRIZA. [[At this point, the Member, Mr. Mercos Lazaridis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And how could it be done differently, when you wore the investor's suit and Kumundur's fist, you lifted the protester's fist? You have hypocritically brought in this House a development law that has failed. But how does it work? With the capital controls imposed by the Tsipras - Varoufakis - Kammenos government? I thought about addressing various of the failure stories and what potential investors are accusing us of. For the economy of time, however, I choose a phrase by an American investor who says it all: "For the establishment of a company in Greece you need four months in California an hour." Yeah, that's right. It is also so, with constant tax changes, administrative strangles, deficits and difficult digital infrastructures, large non-wage costs, opacity in business operation, delays in the administration of justice. The result? Non-competitive and therefore not an attractive country for investment. Ladies and gentlemen, that is exactly what we are fixing with this historic and brave effort today. We legislate something that does not just solve a problem, but opens wide open the door of opportunity. We prove the consistency of words and works of the Government of the Lord Mitsotakis. We put investment at the heart of its interest and development at the core of its political objectives. One takes a long time to list one in one of the beneficial effects of the law. I will try to sum them up at 10 plus an 'end'. Finally, in our country, the process of certifying integration and starting production of an investment is being made more flexible. Finally, we have a Single Digital Map. Finally, we have a National Infrastructure Register. Finally, the start-up status of business parks is being modernised and simplified and the opening-up process of an industrial activity is being simplified. At last, certification and licensing control are accelerated, as private operators will now be subject to conditions which ensure impartiality. Finally, we promote the country's digital transformation by modernising the framework for the licensing and operation of mobile phone antennas. Finally, we are setting up the national redesign and simplification programme to combat bureaucracy. Finally, we are making GFCM more flexible by reducing the operations for which it controls. Finally, justice procedures have been speeding up by digitising legal instruments since 2021, with immediate reduction of suffering for citizens, improving organisation and reducing costs for all sides. Finally, the country acquires institutionalised cybersecurity. Finally, it acquires a single digital portal of public administration. Ladies and gentlemen, I am well aware that this legislation is not the end of the road. It is, however, a bright window of opportunity, with a glimpse of the prospect of the country that we want to have. Of course not all our problems have been solved, of course we still have a lot to do. But the resistance to this bill, I think, is from the evil, is ideoleptic texture and microparticipatory. So let's think about the options we have for where we want to go home. We can, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, think closely of micro-partners and say 'no' to the resolution of long-term and structural malfunctions, 'we are fine as we are as a country, not to change anything', because it suits a few who build careers to feed back misery, which strengthen their 'yard', stealing the hope of many. But we can think of less short-sightedness, not to think about us, to think about those who want to live and create in that country in the near future. I would personally be ashamed to deliver the situation to them as it stands. How about you? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u339	We too, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Biziu from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u340	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, jobs, opportunities and prosperity for all. This was the election promise of Mr.Mitsotakis, this is the primary objective of our government. The creation of new and better jobs, however, means strengthening the economy. The aid to the economy in turn involves investment. The New Democracy has always been in favour of investment, even when the word "investment" was not popular in left-wing attitudes. In order for investors to trust us, the time has come to finally create an institutional environment that is investment-friendly and business-friendly, an environment that is stable and reliable that will offer security and confidence to the one who decides to invest in Greece. It is this pro-investment environment that ensures the government bill we are discussing today and we have in mind a vital objective so that these investments, which have already begun to come, create new, better jobs and real prosperity for all. Let me refer to the situation that we received from the SYRIZA government. Greece ranks in the 20th place between the Member States of the European Union as regards per capita GDP, having declined from the 17th place it held in 2013. Our country still maintains the lowest rate of employment in Europe. The overall net position of foreign investors in Greece remains the lowest among the countries of Europe. The World Bank’s Doing Business Index ranks Greece in the seventeenth second place among a hundred nine economies. We are lasting in Europe for 2019. By 11 posts Greece retreated during the four-year period of SYRIZA. In such unfavourable circumstances business in Greece is a form of modern heroism. With personal experience, coming from a family that is conscientious of entrepreneurship and production, I know the value of the changes that we are discussing today. In the ears of the citizens, all these changes may not mean much, but for anyone who has attempted this bill in Greece it is key. In short, the authorisation procedure for starting an industrial activity is being simplified. Incentives are given to the establishment of enterprises in a single business park. An alternative procedure is introduced by auditors or audit firms. The process of certification of the completion and start of the production operation of investments is considerably accelerated. A major reform is introduced by the provisions governing procedures in the General Commercial Register, known to all GFCM. This is a point of the bill that touches me personally, since I have been a legal adviser to the Larissa Chamber for many years and I am first aware of the daily problems of the trader and the free trader. At the same time, each freelance and businessman's demand has always been to simplify procedures in his dealings with the state. This is precisely what we are doing through the extensive limitation of the legal acts and items, through the automated registration that will now be carried out by the responsible, through the expansion of GEMI services by conferring competence on the notaries. The proposed provisions drastically reduce bureaucracy by consolidating the legality and registration process within a strict timeframe by GFCM. The responsibilities of the development directorates shall also be abolished. The debtor shall assume responsibility for the truth and legality of the information it makes available. With these provisions, the government wants to build relationships of trust with the world of entrepreneurship, Greece that wakes up early, to cultivate a culture of professional, moral and personal responsibility so that the businessman ceases to be treated as a suspect, but to reward his effort and effort. Ladies and gentlemen, after a decade of crisis and monuments, all of us, even the largest fighters of private initiative in this Chamber, agree that investment is the only way to achieve the objective of growth and prosperity for all Greeks and Greeks. No matter what disagreements we are divided, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population, I am sure we all agree on one point: if Greece is really independent, it must become economically strong. It is a duty for this House to vote in favour of these changes by sending a clear message to the whole world. Investment in Greece today, because Greece can now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u341	And we, my colleague. Mrs. Brysidou has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u342	Madam President, Ministers, with a sense of responsibility, we have to look at the major problems of the country and immediately move on to draft legislation that will put the axes on which strategic designs will move and solutions will be given. We still need supplementary laws to correct errors, to overcome deadlocks and to give quick results. This is precisely the present development bill we are discussing. Greek projects are not able to withstand long-term plans with supposedly vision and strategy and substantially postpone the resolution of the problem. We need immediate practical solutions, well-qualified, that will work. Young unemployed have lost their hopes. The elders have lost their job and many still live with the stress of the imminent unemployment they see outside their doorstep. The answer to this is the government's determination and its readiness for a bill that will increase investment, strengthen entrepreneurship and create new jobs. Investments in an environment of global competition are not made with theories and wishes. It needs to be consulted on a precise account of the necessary sub-texts and interventions, as was done with dozens of statements submitted to the Ministries. Incentives are needed to investors, especially those who invest in large projects, such as the provision in the bill for for forty million more, where hundreds of new jobs are created by extending the building factor from 0.4 to 0.6. A rapid control mechanism is needed. This bill provides for political engineers, engineers, accountants, audit firms and any other professional expertise, where necessary, for the rapid completion and launch of an investment. The delays in investment controls were long and constituted a key obstacle even to their final implementation. Today we are talking about the country is suffering, while young people desperately claim a job, two and a half thousand investments and jobs are waiting for control. For this reason, criticism has been exercised, insulting scientists who are supposed to control that if they are paid by the individual, they will also make it easier for him to obtain permission and for the sampling to be carried out by the Ministry, with the penalties provided for by the offenders who are excluded from the requirements of the law, are not sufficient to ensure formality and legality. Gentlemen of counter-population, for those who had this view, I mention from my long-term experience as an engineer that the Greek scientist, however badly affected by unemployment, will do his job well and that the public sector does not need him to be formal and legitimate. Besides, the whole country is studied and built with the supervision of private engineers outside public works. So why the objections to this point of the bill? A major prediction is also the certification of private auditors, who will control and supervise the market, ensuring the application of the rules. At the same time, however, new jobs are being provided. How many times did each Greek become angry with the tiresome bureaucracy which in the field of investment is disastrous? The introduction of the bureaucracy observatory at the Ministry of Digital Policy - under which administrative procedures will be simplified - is a top measure, modern and effective, solves problems and takes Greece forward, making it an equal and pioneer, like other countries in Europe. Of course, we must not forget that Greece needs to increase exports. And this is not done by small interventions, but by coordination of actions and services under the auspices of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And here I would like to refer to my prefecture, Kosanis, and the neighbouring county, the Kastoria Prefecture, which once again guaranteed strong economic activity and jobs, thanks mainly to their exports, which are currently at a tragicly low level. The increase in exports, however, can arise, for example, by obtaining a visa from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs quickly and in a large number of traders from Russia, which are the largest customer part of the product concerned. Another major step forward is the provision of industrial and business parks, where overall upgraded environmental protection systems, such as waste management, waste disposal, noise pollution protection and at the same time studies such as environmental impacts of all infrastructure projects, can be developed, enabling the investor to quickly prepare only the part in his own project. Finally, it is worth pointing out the arrangements of the Ministry of Labour, which systematically deals with undeclared work and also with misleading part-time practices, which deprive workers of income in insurance funds and resources. The fine for any undeclared work will be EUR 10,500 and a reduction in the fine to EUR 2,000 if the company hires the employee for 12 months, while overtime increases for each hour of work in parttime employment. They are measures in favour of workers, such as the possibility of agreement between the social partners, workers and employers, for their sectoral contracts when the company is bankrupt or out-of-court settlement. And that's a charitable measure too. Because the greater and more important right for workers is not to lose their jobs. And it is worth fighting it on a temporary basis with the possibility of this bill until the time of the crisis in the company passes. This is certainly better than letting mass redundancies take place without explanations, except when a company is declared bankrupt. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end by telling you that the citizens are asking for solutions and the model of the previous government has failed. We in Kosani prefecture felt it more than anyone. The country's largest energy centre has been decommissioning by 50%. Permanent staff decreased from six thousand in 2010 to three thousand in 2019, temporary staff decreased. In addition to all this, the SYRIZA National Energy Plan has been designed until 2020 to close all thermal plants. And while it's all over, SYRIZA planned for a fair transition. Where and with whom, though, will a fair transition be made? How are the investments going to be? What plan or law will there be for jobs? The current government is abolishing the NOMEs. Approximately 200m euros will go to PPC in order to get back financially. In addition to this draft law, it lays the foundations for growth, particularly in areas like ours, which have the highest unemployment rate throughout Europe - which we need and which our citizens are waiting for more than anyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u343	And we, my colleague. Mr Voloudakis has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u344	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill has become an opportunity to discuss and what development is for each of us, for each of us. And that is a good thing, because some misunderstandings need to be resolved. First of all - I believe - it means jobs for everyone today. That is the first request in our country. But can development come as a result of a number of decisions? Will the Minister decide that tomorrow we will have growth and what kind of it will be? Of course not. Development is a process of physics within the economy. It's a result of people's productive work, above all. It is what economic life results when it is not inhibited. The first task of the government in Greece today is to remove obstacles from the path of people, to allow productive powers free to produce what they can and must and so prosperity will come. The State cannot be an entrepreneur. This has been founded as a confidence in most people now after the collapse of the Soviet bloc. However, there are some other perceptions - which still remain in public dialogue and as flags of some of our parties and many of our fellow citizens - such as the concept that the state can direct things, choose in which areas people, businesses, activity and resources should be directed. And that can't be. And in fact where he's been tested, he's failed. I heard Mr Tsakalotos say this morning that the market fails many times to choose the quantity and quality of investment that an economy needs. That's true, we know. He didn't tell us anything new. Where to see what happens when state planning fails, when there are people who think that these market decisions can substitute them and try to do them through their offices. There to see a disaster! The market does make mistakes. It also has the mechanisms for correcting it. Because the wisdom of many eventually produces better results than the design of any wise brain. This is the difference between our own liberal approach and the socialist or neo-communist approach. That's what the bill does. It brings out a number of obstacles, facilitates, for example, the licensing of companies, facilitates the assessment of companies and the control of their investment projects, by giving this work to private assessors on conditional terms, facilitates the setting up of business parks, solving much of the spatial obstacles that exist in our homeland and thus facilitates development. We really need quality investment and quality jobs in Greece. One sector that we can do above all - an area in which we are deprived of in our own country - is industry and manufacturing. We have been processed in Greece, despite what we believe, and despite the fact that we are very backward, of course, in relation to Europe. The share of processing is 14% on average in Europe and 8% in Greece. The fact that they are behind, of course, means that they also have great growth prospects and create jobs. This needs to be done primarily as I said before. What prevents processing in Greece? It's two things. One is bureaucracy, the obstacles to the operation of businesses, and the other is the high cost of energy. Tell me, what are you gonna do? Are you going to subsidise the energy? Oh, no. The cost of energy in Greece will be reduced, Minister, if we acquire a competitive energy market in Greece and then our industry can also grow and offer more quality jobs. I must point out that in the processing of the average wage is EUR 25 when in the services it is EUR 11. This, let's see where our country has a chance of creating prosperity for all people. You are bringing this bill a series of regulations, Mr Minister, on strategic investment and you are doing very well. There has been a set of regulations in Greece for strategic investments, very large investments, where an Interministerial Committee is mobilised to solve problems. That's right. Our homeland also needs something for small and medium-sized enterprises. As you do for strategic investment at the level of Ministers, it could be done the same at the level of the competent departments, possibly, at regional level in cooperation with the ministries. Because no matter how much the regulations that exist here really facilitate small and medium-sized enterprises, problems always arise in real life. As it will solve them for the major strategic investments, the interministerial structure could solve them by a committee of service members on the subject at a lower level. Because many jobs from small and medium-sized enterprises will come. You are bringing this bill and a number of arrangements for the management of the Public Investment Programme. The provisions for the national development programme. Indeed, we need to check how to manage the Public Investment Programme properly, to check how public investment is implemented in Greece. But I am afraid, Minister, that these provisions result in a very heavy pattern. When I heard the committee say that you inherited part of these provisions from Mr Drasakis, I say 'Here'. Now it explains. Here is a good'splan in the generosity." You told me, Minister, now outside the debate that they are also the demands of the Commission. But the Commission is also a very heavy bureaucrat. So here, we need to see what happens. I have a lot to say, but time doesn't allow. I will only tell you two points in terms of the provisions for the management of the Public Investment Programme. In Article 127 you leave the investment management director at your Ministry to assess these investment projects, projects that want to be included in the Public Investment Programme by regions or by Ministries that are unclear. There's this fabulous management address all-government. And that's what you need to look at. In Article 129(5), you give a maximum of eighteen months, Minister, to come legal commitments for any work that has been entered. It's a long time now. Why eighteen months? And you're giving them the possibility of prolonging. First of all, I'd say that eighteen months should be twelve months. And I would say further that if the possibility of further prolongation is allowed, it should be only in case there is a judicial involvement. To be specified. Not everything at the discretion of this very strong address. I'm closing in with a very small example. In Chania, Minister, there is an undertaking that produces drones with certification to sell them on the international market. This shows what Greeks can do when they're released. And that's what people have achieved despite today's obstacles. I believe that with the steps you take and more needs to be done in the direction that I have said, we will be able to see many examples of these in the future because our home country can and must have a level of prosperity which is far higher than what it has today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u345	Me too, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mr Loverdos, has the floor from the New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u346	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a myth that has prevailed over the last ten years in Greece, especially since the collapse of 2010, that democracy is in decline, does not work, that the institutions are not working. I can't believe it. And no reasonable man can believe it. The democracy of post-1974 was the best period of democracy that this country has experienced. Obviously, anyone who says it does not know the history of Greece. The history of Greece was full of diversions, constitutional and other, extra-institutional interventions, including military movements, even divisions and civil wars. Fortunately in this period since 1974, we have lived the best period of democracy. All parties participated in democratic processes. We had a rotation of the parties in power with the vote of the people who have never been misled. On the contrary, we have seen that whoever is elected by the people is elected to the government. And that's very positive because it never happened before. It's a good period for democracy since 1974. But he doesn't go to say that there are no problems. There are too many problems in the functioning of our democratic culture. One of them is immunity. Immunity, for example, of trade unionists or a portion of trade unionists who mislead the trade union and labour rights of citizens and workers. The bill now submitted to Parliament is a bill that brings provisions on this very matter. On how the trade unions work. And not to hide behind our fingers the main reason why the strikes are made - and tomorrow the strike and protests will be made - is precisely that. That an organised minority of trade unions will no longer impose its will on the majority of workers. And that's why they react to the way the strike takes place in the computer record brought by Mr. Brutsis. That is the main cause of concern. And that's what strikes are about. This shows, however, that the present New Democracy Government has a completely different view of things than the Opposition or much of the Opposition, especially the one on the Left. I am afraid that too many people in Greece have not realised what happened in 2010. We still have not realised that the country collapsed because we had a system in which the New Democracy was largely involved - do not hide behind our finger - which was lending the state to create artificial consumption. And at some point he couldn't raise the weight of this huge loan. We still believe that stateism, populism can save the country. They can't save the country. The country must change its direction. And the bill that the government brings, which is a multitude of ministers, actually has a very important symbolic role. What's he saying? That this model that some considered to be a model of growth and economy in the past decades cannot continue anymore. That it needs a different standard and a different development system. I have already heard the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Pappas, referring to ideas. Mr. Pappas considers that liberal views are ideals. The same might be true of us. That left-wing opinions are ideological. In any case, however, what some have not yet understood is that your views have actually been applied for decades. And they failed. Now he needs another way. Another direction based, in my view, on entrepreneurship. That gives the bill we are debating today as a symbolic direction towards all of us. Who's that? That the Government of the New Democrat Republic and Mr Mitsotakis does not wish a country that lives solely on behalf of the state, which will be made up of civil servants, as you once said. Well, there's no one in life. Life is a constant process of creation and demanding. It does not want a country that is made up of 50 pensioners, dividends, benefits. Social protection is needed where it really needs to be. But not where you don't need to. We need another way, another course, another country, another Greece. To be able to our child who today leaves abroad to find a job to stay in Greece and not just to find a job. I'm taking it further. To be able to be an entrepreneur. The entrepreneurial activity, the one that creates, is the one that looks up to it that will save Greece and make it a truly modern European state. There are certain things even in countries that have emerged from the dissolution of the Soviet empire, such as Romania and Georgia. Read what changes have been made in Georgia, mainly in its digitisation. Read what seriousness exists in the implementation of the law and business activity in the fight against bureaucracy. Why even in Estonia, which was fatal twenty years ago or Georgia, cannot be done in Greece, which fortunately did not have as much a collapse as those countries had? We didn't mind, that's what I think we should change. This bill, as the Minister said, Mr. Georgiadis, is not the shocking bill. It makes some sensible contributions to removing the obstacles to bureaucracy, the mines that hamper the development of investment and entrepreneurship in our country. It's the first step, it's not the final step. They'll follow more, and they'll have to follow more. I believe that the majority of Members should go in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u347	Thank you. Now Mr Maraveyas has the floor from New Democracy. Mr. Comrade, you have seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u348	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the final result of a great concerted effort to relaunch the country's development. The relevant committees of Parliament, which reshaped, at their successive meetings, the contents of critical articles of the bill, also contributed to this effort. That is why I would also like to congratulate the ministers who have taken into account the comments and suggestions made by colleagues, which, as it seems, had a positive effect on the fullness of many provisions. The reason why we need such a bill is both obvious and urgent. Valved investments at a time when Greece needed economic oxygen, a loser four years where things were said, but they weren't. The Greek, large hotel units, some of them and in my special homeland Magnesia, processing, telecommunications and so many other fields fell victim to indifference, at best, by SYRIZA for the development of the private economy. Everything for four and a half years has been revolved around a state-owned development, which has not only brought fruit to many, but also created questions about who is benefiting from it. Even today there have been many unanswered questions about which individuals without funds tried to make money, taking advantage of state property. We all remember pasture cases, with television frequencies, constructions and lending in the air, with air. But growth was never to come. All that was to be done and done was to expose SYRIZA. That's how we got to today, you came to the committees, you didn't have a good look at the bill. In order not to stay on the obvious, however, I would like to say a few words about some of the government's flagship initiatives, which show the direction in which it will move. First of all, the creation of the Single Digital Charter, a tool accessible to everyone for free. This is a simple, almost self-evident observation: in the 21st century we cannot send papers to the municipality or the region to learn about the use of land in a region. And we cannot wait for months for a public document to get information from the outset on a map. Useful information, such as the existence of archaeological findings, the proximity of regulated activities, the disposal of facilities, any urban constraints, all of these must be readily available to each potential investor. Because investors have shown that they are interested in our country, but to stay, our country must also prove that it is interested in them. No one now commits their money to the era of globalisation, to a place where there are still uncertainties. At this time there are thousands of attractive investment destinations. Unfortunately, some of them are more organised and offer more incentives to investors. The aim of the bill is precisely him. For Greece to become such an attractive investment destination. That is why the first step of the government - and rightly so - is the simplification of the framework for setting up new production units. For example, one cannot retrospectively invoke a legal barrier to an investment if this restriction was not included in the Single Digital Charter from the outset. It's a simple and clear thought, I'm really glad that the Ministry of Development is finally doing it. At the same wavelengths, that of simplification is also the liberation of permits for businesses that are not in any way burdening the environment. Where they are not included in specific environmental categories, their activities should simply be disclosed to the competent authorities and not necessarily authorised by them. It is a measure of common sense, I would say, which will help to make investments from small and medium-sized enterprises and regions outside the organised receptors available, for example, for the installation of light processing plants. Another major initiative, and here we should also stress the contribution of the relevant Minister, Mr Pierracakis, is the national broadband project, especially for the 5G. The country's early preparation for its introduction to the fourth industrial revolution also requires concrete intervention in the wireless networks. Therefore, your initiative to regulate the complex licensing and operation framework of antennas is not only useful, but also critical to the country's digital transformation and its participation in the new industrial revolution, which is already changing the world. I now come to the provisions of the Ministry of Labour, which are the second and main pillars of the bill. There is a lot of talk in our country about the transparency and representativeness of the trade union. What the New Democracy says is very simple and self-evident: to enable all workers to decide directly, without intermediaries, on the crucial issues that concern them. This means transparency in membership, transparency in decision-making by the trade unions and, of course, the legalisation of these organisations. Madam President, we have been filled with union seals and various representatives of workers who may ultimately represent only one group of their friends. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This must be changed and done by the Minister, Mr Yiannis Vroutzis, who is involved in the creation of registers, which will ensure a rapid and secure diagnosis of the trade unions' representativeness to conclude collective agreements and, on the one hand, the fulfilment of the numerical criterion for the extension of sectoral conventions. The same is true of dealing with the alleged work and abuses of many businesses, who are misleadingly using part-time work, to remove resources and revenue from both the social security system and the workers themselves. And this supposedly has to change. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] Unilateral recourse to arbitration shall be regulated and brought into line with Union law in accordance with national and Community provisions and in full compliance with the relevant Council Decision of State, and in particular with the recent recommendations of the International Labour Organisation. Many of the delusions he was saying and SYRIZA must be made up. Many of the messages that have troubled us in the workplace must be disguised. With truth and honesty, we will proceed to find the real solutions. We can deal with the big problems and help the citizens, but only after we have admitted where these problems are actually found in society. I wish today that we could also hear a word of self-criticism from the Qualified Opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u349	Thank you, too. Mr Mandas has the floor from New Democracy and then Mrs Perka from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u350	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to be able to stand up to you today and tell you how innovative and how revolutionary the new development bill is. What new and amazing ideas we will incorporate into Greek legislation, what innovative provisions we are cutting and that we will become an international example to imitate our practices. Unfortunately, however, that is not the case. And that is not the case, because in this bill we are not talking about innovative and innovative. But we are talking about self-evident, everyday and simple. What troubles us and makes life harder, what we have been convicted of in a timeless stain, these burdens that still hold the country back. So what is this bill, ladies and gentlemen? In simple words it makes two basic things: Firstly, it speeds up procedures and helps investors to overcome a lot of unnecessary obstacles. Secondly, it is faced with institutional and structural weaknesses and diseases that have so far acted dissuasively on investment, which have driven wealth away from our country and turned it to others, more favourable destinations. And don't have the slightest doubt, with wishes and rhetoric of decades past, no one will invest in this place, no one will seek opportunities, but it will sail to other, safer ports. We are therefore reversing this very course. In other words, we are creating a much more investment-friendly environment, more flexible, more modern, more substantial. We remove what needs to be abolished, reform what needs to be modernised, leave behind perceptions and institutions of bankrupt Greece and implement the policy that will build the new, self-powered and powerful Greece of the 21st century. Of course, there may still be some people who wonder, perhaps some more looking that way, the alternative, 2015, the path of illusions, the turbulent and irresponsible way that SYRIZA put us in, overthrowing the Samara government at the end of 2014. At last, you admitted, Mr SYRIZA, that not only did you drop the Samara government, not only did you destabilise the country's recovery course, but, as you yourself said, you were completely uncomfortable for what was to follow. And the results of your irresponsible persecuting are experienced to date. But, after your monumental existence, when you were supposed to adapt to reality, I ask you: Where did you lead us and where did you keep us for four and a half years with your amateur and ideological policies? So I will tell you: in the absence of development, at the dawn, stagnation and stillness, where nothing moves and everyone lives a slow death until the final fall. I am sorry to say this, but you were the definition of counter-reformation in the economy, education, justice and labour. No, therefore, gentlemen, there is no other way than that of work, investment, growth and competitiveness. The route of the private, free and productive economy, which opens opportunities, which frees human creativity, which does not divide misery, but creates new wealth. And this way serves the current development bill. We say this clearly, and we do not have any illusions: we want investments, under rules and frameworks, which will bring growth to everyone. We want new and well-paid jobs that will improve the quality of life of citizens and stabilise the country financially. We want prospects, studies, projects, economic activity, less state and more private initiative. And we are proud of what we believe and wish, ladies and gentlemen, because we were right then and we are right today, and we are right every day. A large section, therefore, is now taking place with the government's tabling and discussing the development bill, a bill, which is, the truth, that it was studied and discussed in detail the previous period, which was consulted at multiple levels and comes to give fresh impetus to the country's economy. Its objectives are clear: Removal of multiple investment barriers, limiting unnecessary bureaucracy and simplifying environmental and urban licensing, modernising the institutional and legal framework for investment and entrepreneurship, transparency in representative representation of social partners and trade unions, providing incentives to create new and well-paid jobs. In fact, I find it hard to see who would not want to deal with all these issues. And I ask you: does it make sense to maintain the system of degrees of nuisance while we can abolish them through environmental licensing? Is there anyone who is disturbing business parks and facilities offered to new businesses? Or, on the other hand, we are satisfied by today's institutional labyrinth for land uses, construction conditions, rhetorms, wind, forest land, etc.Huh? Or is the drawing-up of the Single Digital Charter, which will at one point include all the necessary information? Ladies and gentlemen, it is no longer possible in Greece for the investment files to bathe thousands, due to the failure of the state to control them and approve them as they should. We must meet these needs, but without weakening the control process. We must, therefore, develop, in the form of controls and private individuals, with the state always maintaining its supervisory and licensing role at every point. As again, can we in a European country orchestrated and undeclared work be poured out in a European country? Work, we all agree, must follow rules and that is why we are giving clear incentives to support legal and full-time employment, while at the same time tightening the framework of fines. Is it possible for someone to accuse us of that? Or is there a lot of people in this country who don't see where the union has been led? How has it been mutated into an opaque system that serves a few against many? So why are you blaming us? What about trying to restore democracy and genuine representativeness to an old and outdated institution? The Greek society gave its answer to all this, about three months ago, and we must listen to it. We have to change everything and we have to do it now. With rules, with a vision, respecting the environment, adopting good international practices and adapting them to Greek reality, thus establishing a new Greece that is entrepreneurship friendly. And that's exactly what the new development bill comes up with. So we say to investors and businessmen: "Come on, not to make your life difficult, not to get you your properties. Come and we will respect your time and your money. Come to create, win and benefit all from it." In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to focus on an important point which I think needs to be raised. We have all lived in the four years of SYRIZA's cubulation, all of us have seen the most burning revolutionaries turning into the best servers of foreign and domestic short-term interests. We saw the hard people turned into persuasive lambs in front of the prospect of losing power and legislating against what they were supposed to be pushing for years. Unfortunately, in this curse, gentlemen of SYRIZA, with your lies, you have led not only your party, but the whole political class of the country, because you have done so in the most indifferent, fattest, and the most raw way that the country has seen in the last forty years. But we're not like you. We told the Greek people the truth and with this very agenda he voted for us. We will not cover up our actions behind supposedly excuses and deceitful ones. Instead, we will assume our historic responsibility to restore the wrong texts of this country. So the promise we made to Greek citizens was simple, honest and clear: Yes, we will achieve high growth, yes, we will create new and well-paid jobs, yes, we will lead the country forward of a new era, become investment and business friendly country. That's what we said in the election, that's what we're saying now. And we're proud of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u351	Thank you. Mrs Perka has the floor now from SYRIZA and then the Minister of Labour, Mr Brutsis, for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u352	Ladies and gentlemen, I could say that today's government accepts that the legislation of the SYRIZA government, as far as development is concerned, has proved to be operational and effective if you are simply proposing a number of fundamental changes. Sadly, however, these changes are interfering, although significant, dynamically and changing the strategy, vision and ultimately the philosophy of the national development strategy developed by the SYRIZA government and came to fill a timeless gap. For decades the Greek economy was moving without compass. Economic growth was anarchist and fragmentary. There is no doubt that the timeless absence of a development strategy has been the main cause of the collapse of the unregulated growth model that prevailed in the country over the past decades. This failed productive model revives through the photographic and non-provisions of this bill. Generally in the bill, with these point interventions, your ideological view of development is described. What development are we talking about? Because this is also described by the obstacles you think there are. We are therefore talking about development, which is based on cheap labour, environmental and spatial principles and rules, the know-how of college masters, the withdrawal of the state from strategic sectors of the economy, such as controls of all kinds, and ultimately the service of a group of interests, against healthy entrepreneurship. In fact, you are strengthening a private sector which has to focus more on the exploitation of customer relations with the State, rather than on the use of the advantages of the Greek economy, the reorganisation of production and investment, research and innovation. We have already started from Article 1 by distorting the concept of'strategicity'. Thus, even a small PPP project is described as a ‘strategic investment’. We intended as self-justified integrated strategic investment for those who have been approved by the Interministerial Committee of the PPP, but at the same time have been subject to the European Fund for Strategic Investments, which provides for certain minimum sustainability criteria, it applies the policies of the European Investment Bank in any case it has security differences in relation to the environmental sustainability of investments. We can then see that additional sectors that do not have a serious impact on the Greek economy are available to be included in the development law, but obviously serve photographically specific lobbying groups, such as postal agencies, newspapers and magazines, delivery and, of course, broadcasting programmes. The same logic provides for the possibility of strengthening ore mining activities, here is gold. We cannot detect any developmentist logic here. The important point here is, of course, that the money allocated to assisting enterprises is finite, so they must be used in the best way possible and in clear guidelines for the direction of the Greek economy. Of course, you have completely missed the fact that in order to move forward to the post-linerning era, there is a need to support and strengthen the areas that supported the largest industrial project in the country and I am talking about PPC without the corresponding benefits. I am referring to the regional units Florina and Kosanis. We have also tabled an amendment to this effect so that there can be integration into the special schemes of development and for these regions. Apart from this, however, on environmental licensing issues, it seems that you are trying to serve different customers in every section of the bill and that in a curious way, environmental licensing is changed so that I think you too will have control over what will apply after the law has been passed. There is provision for a 30-day strategic investment issue, which if not enough - which is very reasonable in Greek not only reality, but also in European, all European countries have more time and, in fact, very satisfactory consultation - the signature of the Minister goes, I assume, omission of several aspects of an environmental investigation. These decisions, among other things, are very vulnerable to appeals particularly to the European institutions, so they have no legal certainty. And, of course, the usual suspects, the transfer of responsibility elsewhere? To civil servants, as if there were no other determinants of administrative capacity, such as pluralism, ambiguity of legislation, duplication of competence and sub-delegation. Do you consider that officials can conscientiously do their work under threat of disciplinary persecution and authoritarianism? I will stay a little on infrastructure and public procurement issues. We see here in Article 81 that the system of study - construction is coming back and for projects relating to building and renovation infrastructure, that is, more relaxed terms. It is a method that we have seen on the metro of Thessaloniki, which has not yielded very well, let alone it now comes without the requirement of a specific premeditation and without accompanying studies, such as geological, geotechnics. These shortcomings may give rise to new data and planning changes, which will bring about a very long delay. Although a few articles go in on the grounds of an acceleration, history says so, and I will go to the next article, to which I will be allowed to make a brief regression, I think I will be able to do so, and I am talking about concessions. A few years ago, Mr. Souflias had signed five concessions. He was committed in times unbelievable. In four months, archaeological research would end, and in three months' time the expropriations would go from there, due to the delay of the public clauses to the concessionaires. Many billions have been paid by the Greek people with this commitment. You know what's going on? Every time we omit stages and strategically and environmentally and the maturity of an investment or project does not matter, resulting in greater delays, objections, renegotiations and at the end - very high costs paid by the Greek people and collected by the concessionaires, contractors and investors respectively. That is why we have tabled an amendment at this point in concession contracts where you are reducing the time for demands such as Archaeology and expropriations, that is to say 50% for the contract to be signed. So we come and say that it is 50% for the contract to be signed, but for it to enter into force there to be a breakthrough here so that it is 100% so that we do not find ourselves in the position of paying these contracts again. I'm afraid I can't make it. Mr President, I would like your tolerance for a while. Generally on spatial planning and town planning issues, all the principles and rules that exist are really being circumvented either by the specific spatial areas that pierce the existing planning either with the FFS or are talking about the spatial data. Of course they are well and of course exist, but on the one hand they cannot be private and they cannot be handled and the most serious thing if they are not 100% we cannot put them into effect because there will be no right to refuse authorisation, for example in the NATURA area where forest maps have not been completed. Privatisation of public works, disposal of cleanliness, lighting, green contractors. Here is the fact that in the whole bill you don't love civil servants at all. You love some mayors, however, and we also have a photographic provision to dismantle a friend of your mayor from the "surroundings" municipal council meetings that cost some millions I think. I conclude by saying that at last we must finish with this New Democracy account that SYRIZA is against investment. We are in favour of investment by rules, laws not uncontrollable and state-owned. We are first planning strategies and then implementing with prioritisation, legal certainty taking into account climate change and while respecting the country's natural and cultural heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u353	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, the Association for Forty Three Students and a companion of the Department of Political Science and Public Administration of the Kapodistrian University of Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I shall now give the floor to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Brutsi. Since they have expressed their desire to speak now at least two parliamentary representatives and probably also a party president, I would like to ask you to allow me to go as follows: will Mr Brutsis, Mr Amanatidis, Mrs Kanellis, Mr Janakopoulos and Mr Gregoriadis speak in the middle of the day. I will of course agree with him. I'm clarifying it so you know the show. Here, Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u354	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for this bill I think someone should answer a key question: why is there? Why is he here? Spontaneously it comes out that this bill that is reform came up and why did the answer to the question asked by all Greek citizens: 'We are happy here today?' it's no. And I'm explaining. Let us see and describe the space around us, how the Greek situation is, the economy, the society. For example, let us look at issues relating to investment in development. Investors, are businessmen happy? Answer: Catalysts no. Overtaxation, extermination contributions, bureaucracy, administrative costs large, lack of a digital state, burdens huge, towns, archaeologies, all come as obstacles to blocking development itself. The other question. Where are we on the labour market for the workers, the retired, the unemployed? Let's see the scenery. Unemployment ended in 2018 at 19.3%, while in Europe unemployment is at 6.8% in Europe of twenty-eight and eight.2% in the nineteenth. It's Uragua, Greece, our country. In the insurance system you have seen the recent decisions of the Council of State. All the fundamental antennas of the existing L.4387 have been humiliated that you have advertised to the fore. And justice came and said that we need to change structurally in matters and supplementation, to make the system more attractive and more rewarding, and fairer and at the same time, he also spoke about the extermination contributions of the free professionals. That's the reality. At the same time, we see hundreds of thousands of pensioners waiting in line for their pensions, what they rightly seek, seek. This, unfortunately, is the tragic picture of today. So the question that comes to everyone is: Are we happy with this picture? Globally, I think we all answer no, even though we hide behind our party property. Because reality is irreversible and the truth, unfortunately, haunts our country. What do we have to do? We need to change, go ahead, do something new. Something we're going to find out here in Greece? Oh, no. To do what the rest of Europe does with 6.8% unemployment. That's what we have to do! Because at the heart of this development bill, the changes that Adonis Georgiadis brings and all his ministerial team and the entire government together, it is not for growth as an end in itself. It's the man, the pensioner and the worker. Are we pleased, Minister, Mr Papathanasios, that today we have one out of three workers with EUR 320, less than the unemployment benefit? Are we pleased that full employment is now falling short of the new uptakes of part-time work, flexible forms? Are we happy? Of course not! And what does the opposition, especially the SYRIZA side, who has been running the place for four and a half years? He says, "Down out! Don't do anything." Lovers of inertia. What is SYRIZA's proposal? None. Just inertia, silence, lovers of nothing. Stay here, chained in a past that haunts the country, in a past that led it where it was led and we stay unrealized, to do nothing. So we say 'no'. We're changing Greece! Greece will go forward! There won't be any stagnation. We have it as a government, we have it as parliamentarians, we have it, because we love Greece and we have to turn everything back for the better. We need to reduce unemployment, wages need to be increased, but investment must come to the ground and growth must come. The questions, which are relentless to the side of the counterpopulation, are now coming in here, and the whole bill has been canceled. It's questions that come through the bill now. Did you really ask the part-time workers or the unemployed or workers who are being paid so low for their abuse in the labour market? Of course, there is immunity in the labour market. There are abuses, unacceptables, employers. I say it and I believe it. And the previous period when I was a Minister of Labour I had baptized this abuse, this abuse in the labour market, as an economic and social crime. Because tracking infringement is not just a protection for the worker. It is a system which has three sides: the protection of workers, the application of labour law, the increase in insurance funds and, at the same time, the strengthening of healthy competition. Because there are also the consequences of workers. What are we doing with this bill, which the Opposition cancels from its first article to the last? We are making speeches - speeches which four and a half years have not done and which do not belong - as 12% increase in pay for part-time work, to the best of the agreement. And that's not overtime, Mr. Katsotis. It is a further time in the agreed part-time work. It's not overtime. So, here, what does SYRIZA answer - and I am curious what he will say - that we are strengthening children and workers working on delivery and that abusive behaviour exists? Is this problem going to be solved? I can't answer that. But it's important. It's a step. Because the other will try to avoid this cost and to avoid it, or to extend the working hours through a contract of employment, the four-hour period will do so exodus or go to full-time work. Two. We amplify the framework on the part of undeclared work. From now on, after the vote of this bill, whoever is arrested with undeclared work, bad head, expects him to suffer a great deal. And I'm explaining. For the first time, the Electronic Register of Infringibility, a register in which those who are now arrested after the vote of the bill will always be recorded on the black list of APRC and OEL. In fact, the legislator, the Ministry of Labour, comes in for the first time, and they force the supervisory mechanisms to re-check, which has not so far been the case within the same time. If arrested, 100% increase to 10,500 and if recaptured in the next 200% year, the company is practically closing down. Are we going to say 'no' to that? Does the government not show its will that it wants to fight offense? We live here? Have we solved everything? Oh, no! It is a constant effort and it is the next step, which will be the culmination which will hit the breakthrough at the root of the flexible forms of employment. Because flexible forms of employment are nothing bad in the sense of their existence. They coexist throughout the developed world. Infringibility is the fact that there are distortive aspects of flexible forms of employment, abusive behaviour. That is what we want to hit and increase full-time. You say, Mr. Brutsi? How will you increase full-time, in addition to the development you call for, ideologically, politically? We will do it in a measure and a structured way. In other words, as of 1 July 2020, the Prime Minister announced it, we will reduce insurance contributions by five points - do not underestimate the number, it is a very large number, it is a strong incentive - only to full employment. Therefore, all these measures, as a package of intervention on the labour market, should be aware that they will result in very positive results at the end of 2020 in favour of workers, in favour of healthy competition, i.e. consistent enterprises, and in favour of income on the insurance funds. And what does the Opposition answer? Nothing! All in all, it rejects the bill. I ask: Four and a half years in the government why didn't he do that? Why did he not take these measures in favour of workers? Why has it not taken legislative initiatives, on which to support a policy that shows that it is in favour of full employment? Not only in words, but with actions, with legislative initiatives. In the criticism of industrial relations and the rest. I understand, with absolute respect for the JRC, your radical disagreement and you are absolutely right because you have a completely different approach. I do not understand, however, the hypocritical way in which the Qualified Opposition lies in this. And I'm explaining. The core of our policy is free collective bargaining. We confirm, disproved by SYRIZA, which in all previous years said that once Mitsotakis and New Democracy arrive, they will abolish sectoral, serial and expansion. The next day, we're showing something different. We are in favour of sectoral agreements in favour of free collective bargaining. But where does a question that SYRIZA does not answer? Let's see the crucial question. One question arises. How's the New Democracy? It answers the question of the following dilemma. I have an operation that has specific features. Suddenly this operation goes into a power of economics and can't stand on its feet. We've got two streets. One way is to close down, lose all hope for this business to survive and lose jobs. The other way is to give her the right to live and not to lose jobs, which are in the law, secondly, to maintain an employment relationship between employees and employers and to keep them alive and to avoid losing jobs, and the wages will be above the national general collective labour agreement. The dilemma is simple. What a decision each one makes. We are therefore responding - and I am addressing the SYRIZA side above all - that we want the company to survive, to live the business, not to shut down the business, not to put the company back on the ground, but above all to keep jobs alive. That's our difference. On the subject of the OMD. We're not shutting down the OMD. What do we do, though? And here's the hypocrisy again on SYRIZA's side. How's SYRIZA? He's judging us about the OMD, us. He's judging us where? On an issue that speaks of unilateral referral to arbitration. Do you know whose recommendation this is? It's ILO's. ILO, the European International Labour Organisation, has been a SYRIZA crown for four and a half years. From morning to night here in Parliament, I was sitting on opposition benches, SYRIZA said about ILO, the achievements of ILO, and that he is doing everything under his instructions and in collaboration with him. Well, what we are doing today for the OMD is a recommendation of the ILO, the International Labour Organisation. And what does SYRIZA answer? Again, in other words, we must love those old, well-known left-wing lines about 'workers' and the rest. Well, we're explaining. None of this is happening. Greece will go forward. This bill is a great reform, a section. Beyond your opposition and criticism, I know that we all have the common desire in us to move on, to keep our children in Greece, to find jobs, to create jobs, to create jobs, to be well paid, because we all here in this blessed country, our homeland, have the same struggles. And one more thing to close. It is beyond any political moral morality that SYRIZA's position is to identify me with BSE. At the hearing I put myself on different sides and said that we are firmly opposed to BSE, which speaks of business relations and employment contracts. But who says so? Listen to this paradox, and that is what I am closing down, Mr President. This is the first time in the history of the Labour Law of our country, the operation of the Ministry of Labour, which is happening at the same time: firstly, at the moment we are discussing there is no representation of workers. The SYRIZA government left the workers in the country without representation. Because he has responsibility for not having the GCC conference. One of the prisoners. So, under the responsibility of SYRIZA, there is no GSC today official, institutionalised, but it is in the courts. And secondly, this is the first time that this has been happening in the context of the social dialogue, namely that SYRIZA brought the social partners together with the industrialists and industrialists in northern Greece, something that no one had ever thought about. That's the reality. Two industrial entities put SYRIZA in the social dialogue and without the representation of GSC workers. So the answer is simple: Whatever you say we have a responsibility, we have taken the decision, the Greek people have voted to move Greece forward and we will take it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u355	Thank you, too. Mr. Vellopoulou, I have announced you will speak. Because we want to make it easier for Members, would it be possible to speak after two Members or now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u356	If Mrs Canelley wants to, Mr President, I agree with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u357	A lot of favors today.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u358	Thank you very much. Mr. Loverdos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u359	Mr President, for many weeks, as long as New Democracy's governance of the place, I have been following the Ministry of Labour with irreversible interest. I happen to be a freelance professional now that I'm talking to you and I have personal experience. I'm watching what the Minister says. It's all he's talking about, connecting them to growth, that's not inappropriate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u360	Mr President, what's he talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u361	As a parliamentary representative, Mrs. Kanellis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u362	Will you speak on every line?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u363	I have a right to any Minister under the Rules of Procedure. I'm not abused.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u364	Please address the Bureau. We said speed up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u365	So I say, Minister, how is it possible to talk about everything, but do not talk about the EBRD? Do not talk - not leaks how much inside it is - what happens in these months that you and what you have received. We know very well that what you received creates a weakness for every insured freelance professional to regulate his debts. He wants to settle past debts and he can't. He's giving some money and they're lost in the perverse depth of his previous debts. When he asks 'how many are these, to pay them off' and answers he doesn't get. There is no growth without the functioning of the public funds and the insurance funds being rational. You will be asked to tell us, as you say everything, what will happen to this matter. Will you inform the House? You accept problems that you have received and you will soon be the one who created them because you have not spoken. The National Representation asks for it. And because you have another day tomorrow, take the floor for two - three minutes to tell us what is going to happen with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u366	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Minister, please answer tomorrow very much, as Mr Loverdes has asked you to do. The order is as follows: Mr Amanatidis, Mrs Kanelli, Mr Velopoulos, Mr Janakopoulos, Mr Gregoriadis, who is the most hurled of all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u367	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, as many hours as you are here with us, in all the debates and measurements of the most important findings are about entrepreneurship and job creation. But that is the fact. The question is what we're doing. With this draft law, as it is evident, we are simplifying procedures, integrating the use of modern technology, contributing to the speed of decision-making, approval and integration of investment projects. And, of course, as is self-evident, there should be an environment and a spatial planning. This is done in a sustainable natural and structured environment from which these investments often draw their strength. They should also be supported by a healthy, productive and cooperative working environment as well as by the banking system. The title, therefore, of the draft law: "I invest in Greece" is not a slogan, but is a practicable policy that is a central objective. It is supported by the necessary tools, creates the necessary institutional background and frees the country's investment potential. More specifically, it compresses strategic investment deadlines and contributes to their development. The change in the economic climate should rapidly evolve into investment practice. Secondly, it respects - important - the role of public operators and contributes to improving their effectiveness by assisting private companies in the control of investment projects and certification of the integration and start-up of production operations potentially and if the investor chooses to do so. This procedure is subject to a sample check, therefore the reliability of that procedure is increased. Of course, a critical parameter for every investor - and believe that because I have huge experience in this matter - is not who controls his investment, who certifies its completion, but how quickly he will get the money he is entitled to in order to be able to do business. Also, although not mentioned, I appreciate this regulation that not only the investment projects that will be submitted since the law was passed are included, but also those that are already in the rating phase or have already been submitted. The third issue is the Single Digital Charter. His prediction of a dynamic update creates an attractive environment that will dramatically reduce the space from the initial idea to the final investment decision. My experience with the Geographical Information System, which we developed in my professional activity in Development West Macedonia, the well-known "ANCO", whose development I coordinated, makes me a strong supporter of this initiative and this effort. The National Infrastructure Register creates a public sector infrastructure repository, why? To know which infrastructure, which building belongs to whom, who has the responsibility of operating, who has the responsibility to maintain it. In my professional activity, I met infrastructure to improve, but we didn't know who they belong to. So that is an important initiative too. Environmental licensing is facilitated. It moves to a lower tier and, above all, without any action being taken, I would say, an attempt not to support the environment. Another item that has not been stressed so far is the strengthening of PPC's viability, since it is provided for in an article in this bill that it will receive about EUR 200 million for use of services of general interest for the years 2007-2011. The development of modern national network infrastructures, in particular fibre optic networks, 5th generation networks, Wi-Fi network and others, with a road map of the planned national broadband project. The national simplification programme will contribute to speeding up quality, speeding up decision-making, improving the quality and quantity of the work produced. Here, too, my experience in practice confirms that this initiative included in the draft law is indeed a very important initiative, which strengthens the historical and institutional memory of each body. Intangible investment - and in my view, an intangible investment is as important as a huge development project, an infrastructure project - as provided for in the draft law on digital governance are, in my view, also a substantial interference in an environment that optimises growth and the development process. As far as collective labour relations are concerned, there are undoubtedly fair arrangements for everyone: workers, employers and society. Each new does not mean that it has a negative target but is a productive and up-to-date redefinition of the current situation. In particular, the register of trade unions and employers shall ensure healthy relations. Not in the monkey unions. Nor can I mention the possibility of selecting the conditions of the more favourable collective agreement for the worker. Is that self-evident? If so, indicate as a positive forecast by those expressing divergent views. If not, substantiate. Furthermore, many are not stressed by the positive prediction of extending collective bargaining. Why, too, are the positive arrangements to prevent a unilateral change in the terms of the working contract not shown? Why is there no emphasis on dissidents that the treatment of undeclared work and the provision of employment for alleged workers are measures to protect workers, as well as the payment of fines respectively? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A number of issues are dealt with under the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior. Allow me - and I beg your pardon - to make a reference to the regulation of staff matters, in relation to the provision of Article 187, which concerns the regulation of recruitment issues. Following the clarifications provided by the Secretariat-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, that the co-financed programmes do not fall under the provisions of paragraph 1 of that Article and are still subject to the applicable exceptions, together with those referred to in paragraph 2, the issue has been dealt with positively and effectively. I conclude by making a proposal to mobilise investments in areas that are in a phase of transition to energy production, under a low-lip print scheme. The proposal is to introduce these areas into the special areas, in particular, Article 12(l) of L.4399/2016. As mentioned above, it is clear that the environment for development is becoming more friendly and that the concern for speeding up everyday practice. For this reason, I support and vote for this draft law which will contribute to what is a national objective: more and better paid jobs based on the development of entrepreneurship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u368	Thank you, Mr. Amanatidis. Mrs Canelle from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u369	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. There are no overtimes for the colleagues of the ministers who have thanked them for the previous speaker. However, if they were to receive overtime as parttime or permanent employment, they would be like the ones envisaged, a two-and-a-half per annum. And you're obliged to work four hours, and the employer will oblige you to work two more for one hour and another. And so the question was answered, Minister, why did you bring this bill? Because no one's happy. Businessmen are not happy, workers are not happy, and you fell from Mars and you will thank them all. I can only answer you with the journalist Munich of the questions. Forgive me for the 'Munza'. It goes to the five questions: Who, when, where, how and why. In that sense, as the journalists say. They are the five crucial questions: Who, when, where, how and why. Where did you bring this bill from? You didn't bring it from virginity for nothing. You have stepped on previous governments' projects. Secondly, who brought us into this situation? The policy of the previous governments. And within all of this, you start or rather start stunningly with an infinite respect for the JRC and its positions, which are others, but you respect them. You're very respectful of the JRC! Among us now, if we look at how we voted as Greek MEPs in this House, I do not know who exactly respect them, because each party has voted half the way and half the way, except for the JRC. The rest of you are voting half the way, or half the way, against or in favour of the Communist Party whether it will be banned or not in other countries from Europe of the great values. So look at me, you can't. It's hard. You can't look at the hoods when they talk, even when you respect them. Why? Because we have heard the new Republic's rapporteur say here the fantastic thing that there must be business. You never thought that for there to be business, for there to be anything you're talking about, for there to be wealth and wealth, the first thing you need is workers, workers. There may be jobs, but without workers? Where did you get that? You will have a ship with a captain, a shipowner, but there will be no sailors! He won't have anything! This is a big leap to artificial twisting intelligence! Unless you think you're some kind of gods and development is a goddess, a muse that comes this muse now and settles everything. For example, who - not to say the word now, why is it forbidden, it starts from the letter mit and the whole world knows it - will hire someone permanently and definitively when he can do so with the abolition of collective agreements? Why don't you tell me that you're defending collective bargaining. Who's going to, well, get a man on a permanent and stable job? The grown-ups anyway have them that way. So much is coming out and stealing to such an extent that they don't need to get a black job now. Who's gonna get a black job? 'APPLE' will take? "NOVARTIS" will get a black job? Are you kidding us? Are they going to get it? The big wines you're bored with? Google, are you bored? Is GOOGLE gonna get a black job? The multinationals? Will the ELPE get a black job? Who's gonna get a black job? The one who's troubled, why hasn't he become too big yet? And you want him now to make it easier for him to be too big. How will he be too big? Teaching! That's a big invention! A little insurance policy, a little pocket money, a year like that idiot, I'll suck your ass, your youth, your aspirations, your studies, your mother, your father, your shoes and your socks! The school's over. You go away. Next. In part-time working conditions, three or four matures, fine! You're going to have to work because if you don't work, I'm gonna get you fired from part-time work. What? I'll give you two hours. You talk about growth, like growth is a luxury thing that comes into the dreams of people who have to sit in their homes or in a prison or out of work in some free Wi-Fi somewhere, see how people live. That's what you want. Let me explain it to you in the tourist profession. Our heavy industry is tourism. To see the workers of this heavy industry, the workers in the tourist profession, on the basis of this development and on the basis of these industrial relations. Watch what you're doing. Work relationships don't just twist them. You do not dismantle all the struggles and everything that has been done so far for employment rights. You legalize the slavery of the concept of work, by making all those rules that may relieve the bosses of using apprentices, part-time employees, people who make a working union and this working union make it after the extortion of the employer, to accept a minimum wage. If they don't, there's more. It's going locally. He will say "locally, you can't go with the collective agreement, the sectoral, the hotel staff, because this island has a problem". And since he has the island problem, let's do less of the money here. We're going to a local. If it's not local, our friend the hotel owner, the one who's paid for it from Cook will take the employee on an operational contract in his own business. And if he doesn't get enough of that to save money, he'll go to individual contracts and catch one of them. Where will he find them? My sweets, my registries! He'll find them in the registries and have a black list that says, for example, he won't take him, be careful. He's red, he's in that club, he's been working at that hotel that made a strike fourteen years ago because he was his best friend. And you're going to make business cartels. You are building a cartel of businessmen to monopolize in conditions of disgusting work with votes for three memoranda within the European Union, with reduced national sovereignty, with geostrategic reclassifications in the area that increase fear, so as to strengthen the ability of the businessman to blackmail at national level, allegedly. And since you do this, you come here and present yourself as a salvation and as your negotiation because Greece will go forward. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I ask as a journalist: which Greece? Why would he go forward? Who's going out front? When and how will it go forward? That's what the JRC answers, and that's why you respect it. Because the JRC does not represent a purely and undetermined nebula as a concept. Even as a home to see it, home without a people there is no. It just doesn't exist! For her people, she speaks of the worker, who should cost less. Because as soon as you're talking about profit, you'll be costing it right away. What is the ‘1’ cost that threatens profits? What is it? I'm sorry to be simplistic, but I have to say this again, because he told us that it was self-evident. Of course, it is obvious that in order to raise the profit, the cost must fall. What is the ‘1’ cost number? The work. Therefore, your development must take place without worker growth. If workers and workers grow as a material for the primary production of wealth, there can be no profit, it cannot be done. Of course the JRC has a different position. It speaks of strategic planning and does not talk about the auctioning of wealth at the level of public investment which is, in fact, private. It does not speak of a contractor dealing with the concept of profit and of the state. He's not talking about the country as if it were a field. He is not talking about investment as if he is being kind and will face the enemy's army toward him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u370	Mrs. Canelle, you'll have to close up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u371	I shall close, Mr President, but anyway I am not the first person to spend time. What is the army of enemies? The workers? So many legislative interventions for workers? Do you know what you're doing? You do not make labour law, but business law for the treatment of workers. You make it easier for the capital cartel to reach such a point that you think - and here you press - that the worker will not answer you. When the JRC shouts "worker you can without bosses", once you try to tell him "worker you live and have to live with bosses", it will give you the answer. Our difference is one: you will not give it to you where you think you are, but it will give it to you where you expect it and where you do not expect it in ways you never imagined. As soon as they get their hands off and business doesn't work, because the workers will take the law in their hands, then you'll understand if they can run a business without workers. Of course, it is not worth talking about whether to vote or vote against something that everyone presents as salvation, but about the majority of the workers in this place is a cheap ticket to hell.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u372	Thank you very much, Mrs. Canelley. The President of Greece, Mr Velopoulos, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u373	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to start once again with the New Democracy, but in the context of the Rules of Procedure. It is not possible to bring us any amendments at the last minute. It's unacceptable what you're doing. You have made an amendment industry. And the Minister or the ministers are not here to tell them. Adonis is my friend from our youth, and he knows very well that in his business he hasn't done the job lately, but he was organizing and planning it. Otherwise, he would be a failed businessman. Is it possible for you to bring me amendments at the last minute? Is that possible? And until when will this absurdity continue? It is unreasonable what is being done, that Members cannot study them, that they cannot have an opinion. How many do you bring? So, you Members of the New Democracy themselves are not ashamed to vote for something you don't know? I don't understand that thing. I really can't understand it. So we're breaking not the Rules of Procedure, but the logic. We can disagree on many things in here, which is both serious and understandable. But we cannot disagree with logic. You cannot come and tell us at the last minute 'take amendments, take amendments'. That means you were lying to us in an election. You had no plan, you had nothing. So you come here and bring a development bill - we will discuss it if that is the case - which is not properly prepared because, once again, you are bringing so many amendments. Why have amendments been last minute? Tell me you of the New Democracy. Why should this story continue? So let's go to development, the most famous growth that's still coming, but on foot like a turtle. Listen, ladies and gentlemen. Development with banks that drink the blood of the Greek people cannot be done. You want the plastic money to fight corruption. Yes, but listen, Mr. Colleague: When plastic money has so many reservations that it has nothing to do with the outside, it means that 100 euros of plastic money is 92 euros, it is 93 euros. And you suddenly remembered to the government that this is the case, and suddenly, he says, the representative, Mr. Petsas, and you said to see it. So you didn't have a plan again. Turns out you don't have a plan, you don't have a plan. How is it possible for the pensioner's 100 euro bill - which is why I am against plastic money and I do not have a visa and I do not use cards - when he goes to ATM to make money, to give it to him 95 or 96 euros? You steal him from there, too. You're stealing from everywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u374	This is where you pay to ask the bank how much money you have.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u375	That's right! To get an extrait from the bank, as the neoliberals say, I have to pay. If I have 500 euros in the bank, I have to give five euros. If this is not called "tocosculpture", what's it called? And if you're not a loan shark servant, then what's your name? Tell me what's your name! You tell me! Change it! Change it, gentlemen! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Let's go to the rest. As far as the tax bill is concerned - we will also talk about this bill - employees and pensioners are out of tax, while there is no tax change for those who have an income of up to EUR 8 000. And I ask you to understand: What is this development coming on foot like a turtle? How will you bring growth? I'll give you an example. Even now that we're talking about - listen to me, Mr. Levane, why is it serious - you know that the Ministry of Fisheries is not responsible for the vegetarians? Listen, my fellow Members: there are vessels fishing illegally for me, because they are taking and drilling underneath the veins, they have devastated the Mediterranean. And that's what the government allows them. So I ask the Ministry of Shipping to tell me what they are going to do and answer that they are not responsible, but the 'Ministry of Broccoli', the Ministry of Rural Development. Do you understand what we're saying? Is the Ministry of Rural Development responsible for fish and vegetarians? Yes, Mr Levane, this is your state, the bureaucracy that you have been fighting for years. You have decades and you have the Ministry of Rural Development in fisheries. These are incredible things! They can't! It's not reasonable! So you should make a serious state to deal with you seriously and the investors you expect to come because they come from China, America, etc. I hear about investments all the time. And my friend Poppa used to say here when Mr. Poppas was in America, when he went on a trip, that investors are coming. Then my friend Metarakis went and said that investors are coming. Adonis went and said that investors were coming. And everyone's sinking in the Atlantic from America. I don't know what's going on. Investments are sinking in the Atlantic. Once they cross across New York from the sea to Europe, they sink. I want to get a little serious, and I appeal to people's sensitivity. There can be no veto in this country in the Mediterranean. They're destroying the spore, destroying what's in the sea. It's a shame to tolerate it. Do you understand? And you leave it for research, says SYRIZA since 2018. And you don't change it. Change it! There is one thing in Greece, fishing. Help the fishermen. You're talking about growth, that's what I'm saying. Let's go to the rest. Many wonder if there is an alternative to the memoranda. Listen. You don't have to find out about America. There are solutions for development. Copy Portugal's programme. What's simpler? Take Portugal's program and copy it. From 2011 to 2015 without PSI, people came out of the memoirs. They came out in four years without PSI. Can I tell you what they did? They did exactly the opposite to what you did, precisely the opposite: they increased wages and pensions in the social state. They rejected specific rates of taxation. The big estate tax has been abolished. Stop selling public property. Here you are champions, Champions League, give them all. He nationalized state-owned businesses. Another Champions League, you get it, you sell it all, whatever state is there to give it. Result? Increase purchasing power, mostly investments. Reducing unemployment. Reduction of the deficit. He paid debts to the IMF a long time ago. Decrease the debt and the young are returning to the country. In four years Portugal did so. So many brains in here, so many ministers - professors do you - can't understand that good ideas are stolen ideas? Steal from the Portuguese at least the idea. You don't have to do anything serious. Here you cannot do a Ministry of Rural Development, do it for fishing and go to shipping. In other words, these are incredible things to say honestly that you are making a serious policy. We are now going to the stress of the New Democracy. Gambling. Hey, what's the gambling love? What kind of gambling? What kind of gambling? We saved our homeland, we must all be gamblers. Go to the Greek casino. Go to the casinos, fill with "shoes" Greece to finish the problem. What are you doing? But what are you doing, Ministers? Make Greece a country of gambling. And what's the worst of all? The companies you want to grant licences owe millions of euros. You don't say to them: "Pay first and come and get permission." You give them permission, and we see what we are doing in the process, whether they will pay their debts. Do you know how much they owe? Have you been looking for a little bit? Have you investigated this a little? How do you give them permission? How do you give permission? If I don't have tax information, I can't do anything in my company. You, one who owes the state, owes Michaelus a license. If that's not a photography for your own friends, for your own friends, what's it called? You tell me. Tell me what it's called. Why? No fines paid. No check has been made. So the kid can do it from home, the kid you forbid him to go to "Joker", the movie. Another tragedy, too. Greece burns, with "Joker" we do, and if the sixteen-year-old, the seventeen-year-old can see the movie or we can't, send the MATs, send the cages. When there is a law, gentlemen, that at sixteen the child can change sex, you forbid him to see "Joker" you, to understand what your logic is. We are talking about an absurdity of an unscrupulous kind. You fall yourself into the traps you're going to put on the others. You're being self-sufficient. You put an autogol at 93. Let's actually go. The SEP's black list comprises two thousand seven hundred eight illegal betting companies. Do you understand that? It's illegal. But listen here. The kid will have the possibility at home, on the internet, to sit and play "shoots". Play "shoots"! Is that what you want, our kid to make it play "shoes" all day and slot machines? What can I say? I imagine in the next election the Greeks will become slots themselves. They will call the time and at the time when they voted for you with 40% and they will not be wrong. I won't say anything about the toys. Let's go to another matter. Here's the question: Are they returning most of the amounts played by players? Have you looked into this? You're not saying anything in the bill. Let's go in good time now. With 250,000 euros you give Greek citizenship to someone who comes here. Is that what Greek citizenship costs, gentlemen, 250,000 euros? Do you know how much it costs to other countries, Italy, Germany? Do you understand that? Do you know what you're doing? With 250 grand Erdogan's agent, he's paying for it, he's taking home, and he's taking the visa. Any agent who has money comes in, because the agents have money, and he gets citizenship. What are you doing? Is that what Greece is costing you? 250,000 euros? And that's called growth? Are we serious? Bulgaria: 511,000 euros. Monaco: 500,000 euros. That's where another former minister went. You're not going, I imagine many of you. It's not bad to go. Spain: 500,000 euros. Cyprus: 500,000 euros. Bahamas: 450,000 euros. Andorra: 400,000 euros. Portugal: 500,000 euros. Malta: 320,000 euros. And you, with 250,000 euros, give Greek citizenship. Now what can I tell you? I don't know. I do not understand the logic of your irrationality. For me, listen, Greek citizenship is invaluable, gentlemen. It's priceless. Understood. You can't give anyone the Greek citizenship for 250,000 euros. Yes, you can do whatever you want, ruler, but at some point you'll apologize for what you're doing. Because you're smiling down there. You're smiling! The point is, the Greek is crying. She cries every day. Ask the Greeks out how they're going through. Ask those who don't have money and those who have money, if that's what you're doing right. Now let's go to the fatest. Very premiere with the 5G has caught the Greek. But you are not saying that there is a war between HUAWEI and NOKIA. And they don't say, Mr. Pappa, just like you didn't say that HUAWEI is a Chinese company, "NOKIA" is the favorite of Piat, the Ambassador, and we should do well to get NOKIA, because you are always obedient children to Mr. Piat. That's the reality. On the pilot project in Kalamata, Mr Piatt has made a statement that it cannot be "HUAWEI" to take projects. Who? The 'HUAWEI' which, as far as I know, is concerned - the technology, that is to say, Mr Papa - is better than 'NOKIA' and cheaper. So let me see where you'll give the 5G. Because if you are well-being children and obedient children, the territories of the United States, you will give them, I imagine, to the NOKIA. But if you look at the national interest, you will prefer this and you will look better. Because that's photographic. It's photographic, too. Now let's go to the rest, 'cause time is pushing too. You know, I feel very sad when a proposal by Kegeroglou to the pre-review committee was made to take the reins and the trumpets off.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u376	Hello, President!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u377	Hello, Santa. And I say it with a lot of sympathy. Is it possible for the citizen to hear SYRIZA's gentlemen say the gentlemen of the New Democracy and the gentlemen of the New Democracy call Paul? Pick it up, guys. All right, no matter how right it is, it's not that thing he's had since his student years, it's been beating the whole world in the dorms - most people do it, I imagine in here - to do it in the House, to do it arena! There's been a circus or pre-inquiry. It's a circus! It is not possible that the Members of Parliament will be dissatisfied with each other. And he's got an apestom, he's confused the Cretan Leventia, my friend Paulakis, with the apestomia. Aristophanes was also a thyristophanes, but he had a little sense of humor. Well, let's get a little serious, because all this, frankly, is absurd. They're spies. He said something about PASOK, you agree, you disagree, follow or don't follow. They can't outweigh each other in the pre-inquiry, like it's a field. Why, Mr Kegeroglu, can I tell you what is happening now: Go get guilty of someone, but the 2 billion lost by Novartis will never find them. The ones who ridden them in their pockets don't find them, because most of the offenses are dropped.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u378	We packed them up, we took them back.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u379	Delete, Mr. Loverdo. That's what I'm saying. I'm not talking about the company, I'm talking about the natural faces, and I'm saying this, Mr. Loverdo. It's just that you've downloaded the prices. This is another issue and it is to your credit. That's all I'm saying. I say that those who have been taking it for decades, Mr Loverdos - I am not talking about 2011, for 2012, for 2013, for 2014, I say for years - will never be apologied. They have villas in Katali, villas in Panorama Thessaloniki. They've got the money in the pockets, they've been enclosed, and they're acquitted every day. And people hear in the pre-inquiry saying the other tramp and the re-institutor. Well, that, in a democracy at least, is not meant to be spoken in Parliament. I think so. Let's go now and close our speech. Members of the New Democracy, I read the bill you are bringing, Mr Chrysochide, the new bill on poachers, immigrants, refugees, as you say, I do not care about that. In Brasna, we had a social explosion. And I will say it publicly and let some people be disturbed: the Democratic right of local society and the mayor is to refuse, since they were not asked to be called there. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] You're obliged to engage in dialogue. You don't decide and you're ordering. You don't take the world wherever you want. And after all, if you're sorry about the poor little kids, the poachers' kids, why do you take them to the buses like they are, not to say what? What is it? Aren't they human souls? From Samos - Piraeus, from Piraeus - Thessaloniki, from Thessaloniki - Evia. That's a nice plan you've got. That's a good organization you've got. That's a nice state you're building. Listen, gentlemen, to make it clear once again. These people come here without asking. You are obliged to ask the residents if they want. If they don't want, plan to go to uninhabited islands, make structures for people, have them there to take them back to their homelands. In Greece there are no others. And what you're bringing is criminal, and I'll prove it quickly, to close, Mr. President. Article 21: The Government of New Democracy comes and prohibits the re-propelled. That's what the Chrysochide bill says, we won't be able to do push back and reprocess. Do you understand that? Do you understand that? You're transferring them to mainland Greece. You put social reactions and disputes in the local society. Why are you doing this? Tell me one reason. If you tell me it's the replacement of the population to solve the demographic problem - because that's what some say - I'll tell you the following: Incentive Greeks to give birth, encourage Greeks to return our young people, give them money and work to have children. It doesn't hurt your tooth and you cut off your head. Support the Greeks to be born Greeks, so that there will be Greeks in the coming years. That's what we're telling you. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] In conclusion, I will say something to you: we have become a celibacy internationally and this is not the first time with New Democracy, unfortunately. We've become a veto for Skopje and begged Mitsotakis not to veto? Are you all right? Do you understand that? He vetoed the entrance to Skopje? France and New Democracy begging and begging Macron for vetoing. These are incredible things. You who would change the deal, you who would not give the name "Macedonia" and the Prime Minister "we will never say "Macedonia" Skopje". It says "North Macedonia" with ease now, as if we were to say "Upper Petralon, North Petralon, Lower Petralon." What's this? Who are you kidding? In conclusion, I will say: For us there is a reality. VMRO, this Soviet party in Skopje, is your brother party in the European People's Party. Don't make fun of the Greek people. You're the same as SYRIZA. You give the name, and you will pay for it in the next election.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u380	Thank you, Mr President. Today we'll go by an hour in the morning. Tomorrow we begin at ten and half in the morning, because we have first parliamentary control. There are six topical questions, which will end after ten, so I tell you that we will continue the bill at ten and half. The planning is the vote to take place tomorrow at 10 p.m., but that requires speakers to keep their time, otherwise to the end, unfortunately, some speakers will be removed and that is not what anyone wants. Because it's on the list of speakers, and I know who they are, I would recommend to the New Democracy and SYRIZA that no speaker be removed. SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative Mr Janakopoulos has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u381	Thank you very much, Mr President. I sincerely had no interest in this debate here - and I would ask colleagues on the part of the Com mittee to believe this - to raise issues relating to the general political debate, the general political conflict, for example, which relate to the issue of 'NOVARTIS', because I believe that this draft law has many issues which need to be discussed in depth. However, a moment ago, the Minister, who is responsible for this bill and who has submitted it, Mr Georgiadis, rather than being in the Chamber and taking part in this very important debate, with a statement on the perimeter of this House - and after two public interventions by the House today in the media, one on radio and one on television - has chosen to make a statement which, in my opinion, goes beyond the limits of political conflict. In political conflict there may of course also be calls and contagion, that the tons rise. All of this is perfectly reasonable and reasonable. However, I think that specific limits should also be laid on this type of political controversy. I think Mr. Georgiadis is over. Just because it came up with the Swiss television documentary on the issue of 'NOVARTIS', in which Mr Georgiadis himself admitted that there are politicians who were funded by 'NOVARTIS' and because he was in an extremely difficult position, he chose to leave this difficult position today by saying that those who were financed are Mr Tsipras and Mr Polakis. One wonders whether or not Mr Georgiadis should be laughed at, is in such a difficult position in relation to the question of "NOVARTIS" which attempts with this type of grey accusations or gray comments to find from this extremely difficult position in which he himself has put himself. In any case, the question is now that this matter concerns Mr Mitsotakis himself, who either will force his Minister in one way or another to stop saying everything he says, claiming everything he claims, or he will eventually remove him, because we are telling you that, with his attitude, he does not harm SYRIZA, he does not harm Mr Tsipras, he does not harm Mr Polakis, nor any of us. The New Democracy and the Government also harms this critical debate, which must be done for this bill and which I am going through right now. I think I am obliged to make a few comments on what Mr Georgiadis said, first of all in relation to his valuable attempt to present this bill as a single bill, as a bill that has a common target and serves a common purpose. I think his argument, his attempt to present this bill as such, is not at all consistent with reality. On the other hand, you would say that over half of the bill is irrelevant to the question of investment aid, as you understand it as government and contains provisions on local government agencies and fine write-offs, it contains provisions relating to amendments of laws which you themselves brought to Parliament a month or two ago, and today you are in the need to amend them, creating an incredible legislative chaos. We have arrangements for contractors to return to municipal return services. We have the thirty-six paragraphs on the final state, which were also mentioned by previous speakers. Bringing thirty-six amending paragraphs on the final state, for which you advertised how many are ready and how highly prepared to reconstruct it within ten days, involves, as you can see, an irony, because you were telling us a few months ago 'we're ready.' You are going through a law which will reconstruct and create the final state that will in any case lead Greece in the future, and today you are in the need to table thirty-five, not one, not two, not three, but thirty-five amendments to the same bill. A second issue in relation to what Mr Georgiadis said is related to the conflict of interest highlighted by the SYRIZA rapporteur. I think Mr Georgiadis did not understand exactly what our rapporteur, Mr Papapas, has said. He said that by circumventing the auditors' register, to which the draft law goes, what exactly is it? Before, in all phases of the investment activity - particularly in the final phase of the investment activity - the auditors' register was to be completed and the investment had to be completed in each individual investment - and not on a sample basis - by a auditor, who was not known to the company he controlled, was to be confirmed because it was derived from a draw. Now what are you doing? In essence, you are allowing large companies, those who have the opportunity to pay, to hire the auditor they want, in substance bypassing the register procedure. That is exactly what this problem is about: who pays this auditor? The company. So the company pays, i.e. the controlled pays the man who controls him. One wonders: is this not a question of conflict of interest? This is the big political question, which Mr Georgiadis must answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u382	What's going on at the C.E.L.D.?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u383	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u384	So I'm telling you again: Since this is the case...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u385	PPC, HELP, what's going on? What are the audit firms doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u386	PPC, HELP, ELPE are utilities, in which the public as guarantor of their procedures exists, and that is precisely why it is allowed. But here we are dealing with a pure private sector. So there is a very big issue and don't try to say that you don't do something that you do. Just admit that you want to create non-transparent conditions for investment activity in the country. Thirdly, with regard to what Mr Georgiadis said. He said an argument that seems a little strange to me. He says: "We legislate on capitalism, so I understand the fact that the JRC is voting against the bill, but SYRIZA must vote for it as well as himself in one way or another has exercised rule within capitalism and has accepted this economic treaty." Look at that. This argument understands that it effectively abolishes the political conflict in its very core. Because apparently SYRIZA could not abolish capitalism by a decree, nor come here to parliament and say it abolishes capitalism. The issue is in what direction one is legislating within the capitalist system, which is what it is. And that's a real crisis, it's not evaluative. It's not about whether we like it or don't like it. That's it. So I say in what direction do you legislate? Is the aim of reducing inequalities or strengthening inequalities? Is the aim of strengthening transparency or strengthening opacity? Is the aim of strengthening or abolishing labour rights? The question is, then, who is every time the horizon of legislation. So here we have a false argument from Mr Georgiadis, because I claim that this bill does exactly the opposite of what the New Democracy claims to be doing. I have been in the first place in my opinion and I believe that the New Democracy has called for full control of public life in its entirety, namely the state and the political system. It will look like this in tomorrow's debate we have on the President of the Republic, which you would like to vote on with a hundred and fifty-one votes. And in other ways it has been shown that you want the ultimate control of public life and the political system. This has also been seen in the public administration with the regulations in the final state and in the information that has been created - and we will then talk about what has been created - an extreme situation. But now you are coming to prove that you want to gain complete and complete control over the economy. We have here a hybrid policy of provincial neoliberalism, in which the following is unified: The logic of the rhetoric to friends, big businessmen and oligarch groups, in other words those whose interests you want to serve and you confess that you are serving them on the other hand, an extreme anti-fungalism, a generalized ministerial and employers' immunity. This very model is served by the specific bill we are discussing today. Why, what do you think? That growth will come - I start from the second point, that is, your extreme antagonism, is the neoliberal part of your policy, not the provincial part, because the provincial has this character of the favours to the few-government and the big-government - with the crash of work. This is the central idea of the bill. And if you don't believe me to say it, I'm from SYRIZA and I may be ideological, I would refer you to the Bank of Greece's report. What does this report say? On five lines it concentrates all the policy that this bill serves, i.e. wage reduction policy. So the Bank of Greece says that, with the implementation of this bill and the fact that collective bargaining is being abolished as it is formed after SYRIZA's interventions, we will lead to a reduction in wages. This will create investment incentives. This is liberal or neoliberal - one would say - the idea behind this bill. We will use the reduction of labour costs as an investment incentive, and this will increase the pie and then we will all be happy and happy. One would say this as the great promise of neoliberalism, which has never been observed. It has never been done, nor is it now going to be done, and you will see it in practice. I would therefore say that after the abolition of the 'founded dismissal', following the abolition of the protection of contract workers, following the deterioration of the Labour Inspectorate, we now come to the core of the demands of the International Monetary Fund, namely, the abolition of the right to unilateral recourse to arbitration and, secondly, the abolition of the principle of collective bargaining. I will tell you this: the International Monetary Fund over the past five years has been trying to impose this policy, namely, to prevent collective bargaining from reintroducing as they came back after 1 September 2018, namely the principle of more favourable regulation and the principle of expansion, which will apply without exceptions. He also asked - be careful, because it is important - that we find, as a government, a way to circumvent the decision of the Council of State. What did that decision say? He said the right to unilateral recourse to the negotiation stems directly from the Constitution itself. And we said to them: "Excuse us, these cannot be done in a rule of law. One cannot ask us to find a way out of a decision by the Council of State, namely the Supreme Court of the country.' However, it seems that the New Democracy Government has no problem either with this and in substance implements the essential requirements of the International Monetary Fund as a whole. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let me close - and I ask for your tolerance, Mr President - on two - three points, which are very important, and highlight the other part of this piece of legislation, which relates to what Alexis Tsipras had previously termed 'a provincial neoliberalism'. What's that arm? It is related to the special gifts you make to big businessmen and small businessmen. I could talk a lot of time about it. However, I see that time limits me. Accelerating and very concisely I will say: Gold mining is now being subsidised and entered into development law, but - be careful - even for their supportive activities. So, what's this bill doing? It says that collecting bogeymans, for example, is an obligation for a company - which in any case is a burden on the environment with its activity - we will be subsidising it by development law. That is, unprecedented things! Secondly, courier transfers are eligible as an activity now covered by the development law. The reason is obvious. Postal services - as you know - have a compensatory cost that ELTAs give for the fact that the ELTAs are obliged to pay off this service at a low price universally. So, what are you guys doing? This cost of courier on the substance of you are subsidising it through their inclusion in the development law. Not to talk about the fact that there is a suspicion that there is a publisher and owner of the only press distribution company in Greece, he is thinking about integrating his activity into courier next time. We have also told you about 'FORTHNET'. You told us "we don't know, we didn't hear, we didn't see, it's the private economy's responsibility to regulate itself" and everything else. We have also heard a number of such fine liberals about the panic of the speech or the possibility of the market regulating itself. In any case, we have to look at all this and it will appear the next time to whom and why the carpets are made. The main one - and I am closing down with this - is this: I clearly think that the most graceful regulation is related to the abolition of the obligation to denomination of the shares in funds, which are involved in television stations. Be careful what hypocrisy is. You could come here to say 'The Greek people voted for us, we make this political choice to support the channels' and not dress it up with a argument that says that we want to help develop broadcasting, to help the broadcasting media move on to investment. And why is that hypocritical? The hypocritical thing I think is a very diligent word. It's an absolute, clean, knowledgeful and deliberate lie. A few hours ago, an amendment was tabled by the Ministry of Digital Policy, which says the following. In the previous law there was an obligation for channels until 2022 to emit to high-definition laid down by Law No.4339. So it forced the channels to invest in mechanical equipment, new technologies, etc. You are coming here and while you are telling us that you really want to find money so that the channels can be invested you can remove this obligation from the canalarchs and from the media companies with the amendment that came from the Ministry of Digital Policy. I mean, you're mocking us in this room without any contraction. Tell us “We want to keep making ruffles to the canalarchs to savage us from morning to night. This is our political objective and the debate is over. And from there on, the people are judging. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u387	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that from the top Western theories they are attending the meeting, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" Hall forty-eight students and students and five teachers attending the 8th Artas Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause]] The Secretary of Mera25, Mr Varoufakis, has the floor for 15 minutes. Then, surely, Mr. Loading from New Democracy. I've promised to go to another obligation. Please, Mr Varoufakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u388	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in a normal country the government's budget is about the plan for the country's longevity. The development bill, development law is the building, the reforms on the microeconomics that are a normal country. Our country has not been normal since 2010. We have lost the opportunity to govern this place either at the macro-economic or at the micro-economic level. In the time of debt, as we are saying in Mera25, when policies both fiscal and reform are dictated by the particular directorate of Brussels and Frankfurt, which we all know very well, unfortunately, has imposed a specific divorce on the country. A divorce between the effort on sustainability at macroeconomic level and reforms. Remember what they said in PASOK and you in the New Democracy and later in SYRIZA. "You make the reforms. Reform. Let the fact that your debt is unsustainable, both public and private. You make the difficult, bitter reforms and leave the rest to us", in essence. That's what they said then, that's what they say today. There is therefore a development law that represents this divorce. We see that. Your law has some good ideas. For example, the creation of a national development programme should have existed a long time ago. Only it's taken into the lens, inside the silver cage of the fourth memorial. It clearly says that any planning under the National Development Programme should be part of the budgetary objectives that are completely in conflict with any development potential. In Articles 118-141 we see this almost everywhere. In other words, the fourth Memorandum is here, united, strong and within this framework, you - and I really sympathize with you - must submit, as the previous ones have done, a draft law that can never succeed in building reforms, since the foundation is unclear. The foundation is the fourfold bankruptcy of a state which cannot serve its debt, banks that are deeply bankrupt and will remain deeply bankrupt with these huge rates of non-performing loans and with the austerity that creates new non-performing loans, with households that have non-performing loans and everyone owes to everyone and cannot pay for small and medium-sized enterprises that disappear under the burden of tax prepayment and the well-known features of this difficult period that the Greek people spend. What is the context of your development project? It consists of a substantial resumption of the International Monetary Fund scenario. The International Monetary Fund's answer to what needs to be done in a country that is bankrupt in a single currency which does not have its own currency and cannot underestimate its currency has always been domestic devaluation. You remember that by those who have passed through the government headquarters or by the House, or have read newspapers and not just financially. So what we see is a generalized internal devaluation emerging through the pages and articles of this wonderful bill of yours. Three dimensions. Depreciation of labour costs, Arts 53-58. I'm not going to repeat it. They've been said before by other parties. We have an attack on the trade unions, on the organized working class, in general an attempt to reduce labour costs. What's that gonna do in development? Let's see what the data have been available over the last eight years. We had a fall in labour costs by 42%. We are the only country in the world, ladies and gentlemen, who have had such an impressive reduction in unit labour costs, without any substantial increase in exports. Have you ever wondered how this might be? And don't answer me, 'We're good what we're producing.' Whatever we produce. And an apple to produce and export, when you have a 40% reduction in unit costs, you expect to sell two and three apples afterwards. It is one question that has also been raised by his meea culpa and once again by the International Monetary Fund. The answer is simple. There's no chance you get out of the way when you have a broken banking system that can't borrow even profitable businesses. So when you have a quadruple bankruptcy, bank and private sector, it is impossible to take advantage of even this class attack on the working class. I'll say it one more time, ladies and gentlemen of the government. We are the only country in the chronicles of capitalism that we have seen a great decline in labour costs without extroverting, without an increase in exports. And I'm not talking about a trade surplus. I'm talking about a simple increase in exports. We didn't see her. In your effort you will find us in Mera25 and not only us, they are against all of us. We will resist this further class attack on the working class. But even if you succeed, you won't succeed. You cannot achieve more than the governments have achieved in the past eight years. Reduction of 42% of labour costs. And get it done, get it another 5%, there will be no growth dynamic for a simple reason. Because at the same time, you will reduce active demand. The second dimension concerns something which is very interesting as an expression, which is lacking in your development bill. You know, all the development bills, all the governments in both Greece and abroad, have always had, as their main dimension, direct foreign investment, "Forisign Direct Investments". There isn't one here. You have replaced the words 'direct foreign investment' with'strategic investment'. I know very well what that means. It means that you have even lost hope for foreign direct investment and you have replaced it in the hope that some will come to buy some cut-off assets. Let me remind you, to those who at least have knowledge of economic theory, that coming to buy an apartment here in Plaka is not an investment in economic terms. That kind of retreat you've made. You are focusing on privatising the area, the land - what remains, that is - you are focusing on privatising companies of general interest, whatever businesses have left. A lot of times in the details reveals the whole thing. The specific provision you have in Article 16 for the non-connected islands of PPC is very interesting. There, you say that there will be no solidarity between islands, between the mainland and the islands, that the consumer will pay the total cost that is very high on the non-associated islands and then he will get money back from some best man who will be financed by the government, a piggyback we know very well that has never been financed, which is why PPC has the huge cash deficit, which it has. It is interesting, however, because this is also in line with the model you have in mind - and you will bring it, I am sure, in due course, for supplementary pensions. You're talking about privatization. What does that mean? It means that as Athens and Crete are not going to contribute to the account of the PPC of Nisyros, so young people will not contribute to the subsidiary funds of the larger ones. This privatization of everything, even within societies, even geographically is a key pillar of your thinking. Ladies and gentlemen, you are talking about privatising the assessment of investments. I have heard the previous speaker that he has rightly said about the evaluation and the evaluator and I will add to that. You know what reminded me of? Because I've spent all my years as a professor. Imagine my wages were commensurate with the grades I give my students. Imagine such an educational system. I imagine your Minister of Education would never accept that. It would be funny. The children of all of you would get 20. We'd have a inflation even higher. That's what you're doing. And you know what upsets me? You're a liberal party, a neoliberal party, I'm not bragging you, I'm using their own descriptions. You are, however, following policies that your sister parties have chosen abroad, which have now regretted. Are you talking about private evaluation? Have you forgotten? It is as if the scandal had never happened with "ARTHR ANDERSEN" and "ENRON", scandals with "STANDARD AND POORS" and "FITCH", scandals with the Royal Bank of Scotland. Haven't you been taught any of your party brothers? You are constantly talking about public-private partnerships. As the English 'PPP' say. But is that possible? It failed, it's over. Will you bring it to Greece now? Ladies and gentlemen, because I know that if I were to present you with a study from the New Left Review or the Rosa Luxemburg Institute, you would not take me seriously. That is why I will table a very interesting study from the International Monetary Fund in the Minutes, which shows that in ten countries where public-private partnerships have been implemented: firstly, because governments are being given the opportunity to make extra-budget expenditure, long-term costs have increased, the risk has been transferred from private sector to public sector, and the opacity has become gigantic. [[At this point, the Secretary of Mera25 Mr.Giannis Varoufakis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That's not what we're talking about at Mera25. The International Monetary Fund says so. It is the reason why so-called public-private partnerships have now been abandoned in Great Britain by the conservative party, which invented them. And you're coming now to join the development bill to the great discovery that will take us forward. In other words, in the name of good practice, you are applying fine practices. I am passing on to the third dimension, which we, as Mera25, distinguish in your development bill. Depreciation of the environment. We have depreciation of labour, we have devaluation of public goods, and now we are reaching the third that is depreciating the environment and cultural heritage. I'm not going to embarrass you so I don't get bored. Others have enthusiastically enthusiastized. Slag will be premiumed and guaranteed? The Squirrels? The lignite? It's embarrassing that we're still using lignite. How much more shame is it that we take money from a public authority, which is deeply bankrupt, and use them to continue instead of economic and environmentally anti-environmental new mining for lignite? Radiators? The average nuisance factor for Attica? Articles 1 to 3. In fact, I saw somewhere in your bill that you're referring to funding migratory flows. I imagine Hot spots, concentration camps. Is that part of your development dynamic? Are we going to build new Morians in the hinterland, new Almonds, and this is part of our development policy? [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the Secretary of Mera25 is ringing.]] Mr President, I will use my vulnerability time if I may. Is Internet gambling part of our development effort? The funding of broadcasting, when we name the shares of the media oligarchs? I understand you're redeeming some notes, but find a more awkward way. Enter it into another bill and not one called "development". We are talking about an essentially legalisation of theft of people and nature. We're talking about exploitation as the basic concept that goes through your development bill, not creation. Consider what "farming" means. It means I dig, I get something, I throw it, I use it. This isn't creation. Take the meaning you have in mind for the business park. You say that in the business park, apparently to give more impetus to the businesses they will find there, you will accept that there are lower environmental standards. What's he revealing? That you think that in order to achieve growth, environmental degradation is needed. That the environment is a raw material that burns it like an internal combustion engine to paralyse energy. Ladies and gentlemen, come to the 21st century! Today, growth will come from an increase in environmental standards, not from reducing them. You want business parks? You should be targeting business parks, environmental standards being higher than they are outside, not lower. You have an issue as to how you think about growth in the 21st century. And in the end, you will allow me to speak to you a little ideologically. I'm Adam Smith's lover, although I disagree with him, and you shouldn't disagree with him because he's supposed to be your guru. Adam Smith had a problem - not so much with the state, although he had a problem with the state - his big problem was the return. He was an enthusiast of economic gain and thought that the greatest enemy of the market society, the liberal society for you, was the stimulus. Your development bill is not about healthy profitability, according to Adam Smith. All you're trying to do, through exploitation processes involving both work and the environment, is to maximize income - harvest, income - maximize. You are confronted even with your ideology. Of course, that's not weird. We had SYRIZA for the last four years he did exactly the same. At last, however, it is time to begin talking in a way that enables us to marry the ideological project with the provisions of a development bill, so that we can be more clearly judged than the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, through these pages and articles of the bill, we can see something else: even if we were not a debt-partnership, even if we did not have this quadruple bankruptcy, the development model which you ambassador reminds us of a model of Eastern Europe, something between Latvia and Hungary, with Greek features, to remember Deng Siau Ping a little, capitalism with Chinese features. I am saying this because I liked you well - I don't know who has so much humor - that you joined the National Development Programme for five years, which I think is going to be very happy with our partners in Beijing and with the JRC's partners. Of course, your five-year programmes have no money to lever them, to support them, to build them up. I think, however, that there is a dose of humor in your bill and I will refer to one or two other such doses. I talked about models of Eastern Europe. Let's get away from our own. The situation in Greece has been very grim for many years, but we have been living some of the causes of Euroscepticism and the rise of the far right in Central Europe. It's about the model that you would like, that you can't because you're stuck in the debt colony too, you could have implemented. I want to give you an example. There is a factory in Gior, Hungary, belonging to VOLKSWAGEN - AUDI and producing engines for the quite luxury models of ‘AUDI’. In this factory, labour productivity is exactly the same as in Ingolstadt, which is the Bavaria factory in which cars are then assembled into the bodies where the engines are produced in Gyor. It's six hundred kilometers away from Ingolstant. I would like to say to you: with equal productivity - I will give you an interesting item - the monthly wage of a Hungarian worker, at this particular factory, is equal to the daily wage before contributions to Ingolstad. Can I say it again? The monthly salary in Gior is equal to the one-day wage in Ingolstant. At the same time, ‘AUDI’ pays no tax to Hungary. Not at all. There is an agreement between Germany and Hungary that is taxed in Germany on value added and Hungary does not take a dime. The model is exactly what comes out of the pages you want to apply: Conflict of labour costs, a legacy, after privatizations, state, poor and particularly generous in large multinational companies. And Hungary is a good case for the simple reason that it has been completely interconnected, it has become part of the German industrial machine and unemployment is relatively low, they do not have the complete bankruptcy we have here, the fourfold bankruptcy. But the Hungarians are migrating. The Hungarians are constantly angry. There's an unpleasantness in the country that maintains an Orban. That's the perfect thing for you. It would happen if you didn't have the enhanced surveillance, the fourth memorandum. That would be your model. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, Greece deserves a better model than this. The Latvia - Hungary model with Greek characteristics is part of the problem that turns Europeans against the European Union, and we say that at Mera25 as a deep European. As I speak or have referred to the humor that some of your articles describe, I would like to tell you that I laughed very much when I read somewhere about a bureaucracy observatory. I imagine that you will also have a sub-observatory with committees and sub-committees with clearly defined objectives. Monty Python. I hope it works. But there are more effective ways of hitting red tape than creating another red tape that will hit red tape, you will allow me to tell you. Now, nothing bad is good. There are also articles which we welcome as Mera25. For example, the development of the 5G network is very important. I hope you're doing well. You're just talking about it. Here we are, and we will judge you. About the Digital Administrative Transformation of Article 48, we are with you. Of course, here you will allow me to make a little comment on the services of this House. When it came to me a few days ago, a week ago, the draft budget was scanned, as if we were still living in the age of fax, and it didn't come to me in electronic digital form, I thought you might have to look at this and get to know a little bit about the House. Because if we cannot get the digitalisation that once existed in the 1980s, I think we will not go too well. With regard to Articles 75, 76 and 79 on electronic case-file, for the remote examination of witnesses, we find ourselves positive. But there are also scandalous provisions. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, have you noticed that Article 211? You noticed what you were doing in "outside you", which was never "outside you," but it was "what you had". I wish there were "outside you" and we should show where we got what we got from and not just what we've got. But even that you're undermining. The old article said: "The use of information collected from the "subjects" from the removal of bank, stock exchange, tax and business secrets is the prerequisite for completing each committee's supervision". And what did you guys put? Add two dictionaries that are very guiltful: ‘Posted if required’. Is that possible? Take those two words off. The 'if required' creates a whole process that allows some to slip and creates a second level of decision on when required and who will ever be required. About the casinos of Alexandroupolis, Rios and Syros, which were required to remain unpaid for thirty days before the license was seized, why did you do that? What note did you cash? About the Mayor of Glyfada, let me not say anything more. Ladies and gentlemen, I will close by saying that you have to make a decision. In the time of debt, in which we are still living, in the fourth memorandum, the links between the hard work of small and medium-sized enterprises, workers, businessmen with the escape of poverty and underdevelopment have been broken for some time. The bill you brought is developmental. It develops underdevelopment, which is not the same as leaving her where she is. A two-tier model is being created, within the framework of the fourth memorandum, which strengthens the very few and decays in underdevelopment, which even expands, in ways that many of us have mentioned: Scaria, skyscrapers, lignite, etc. Are you and your SYRIZA partners asking us, "No" are you saying? Isn't the investment in Greek? Won't he bring money? Aren't some businesses going to move? The Squirrels? Don't they bring money? Won't GDP increase? And we answer you, the GDP of some, very few, of course will grow. The GDP of the many is not going to increase. In the government colony they will remain locked and their children will continue to flee, to devastate this country, they will be made by democrats. And now I see that there is a consensus of many of you not even having a cross when they vote at consulates, but that is another story. Ladies and gentlemen, speaking economically now and macroeconomicly, the budgetary multipliers of your development bill will be zero or negative for many and will be particularly positive for very few. I remind you why and how GDP can well rise while growth is spreading and developing. May I remind you that GDP rises when forests are burned due to the increased use of kerosene from fire-fighting planes and diesel from fire-fighting firearms? May I remind you that GDP grows when we build prisons and hot spots, when we cement our beaches when we drop a bomb and kill a civilian? It increases GDP because the civilian has no economic value, while the bomb is of commercial value. It increases when we reduce the quality of education, when we increase the number of schools. Do you remember that? When we forget the poetry of a Seferis, a Cavafy, but click on an advertisement of FACEBOK increases GDP. When a politician, ladies and gentlemen, takes a polyethnic misery to increase the price of a drug, then. The figures that measure the revenues of the oligarchy represented, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, can tell us everything about Greece. What they cannot tell us is for all those things that will bring true growth of real values and qualities, which can help us escape exploitation in order to bring about the creation of values. Once a very important British socialist politician had said that the great question posed by the status quo is: How can wealth convince poverty to use its political will to keep the wealth of power? Your development bill, by paraphrasing Bevon, is it a question of how can the oligarchy convince her victims to put her back to multiply their exploitation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u389	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u390	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u391	Wait a minute, Minister. Just to be okay with the Rules of Procedure usually in such discussions there are no secondarys, so Mr. Varoufakis just extended his speech. Now that for me doesn't mean I'm going to cut Mr. Gregoryade's time. So let's find out when he wants to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u392	Mr. Gregoriadis is a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u393	When the President of the Party speaks first, then the parliamentary representative has half the time. I am not in the mood to do that, I am prepared to speak in full. Now Mr. Georgiadis will be speaking. I would ask that everything that is caused by Mr Georgiadis' speech should be kept for a moment, because he has something urgent to do, seven minutes is his speech, and then, if a debate is provoked, you can answer Mr Georgiadis. Here, Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u394	A few very quick remarks to Mr Yannis Varoufakis, the President of Mera25. Mr President, first of all nowhere, but nowhere in this bill there is less environmental sensitivity. I'm sorry to tell you, but you probably don't understand what it says. If you tell me which article reduces the environmental conditions and environmental sensitivity I will tell you good. I say to you there is no such article at all, on the contrary there is absolute respect for environmental rules. Do not fall into disinformation. But if you disagree, tell me what the article does, it reduces environmental standards. What he does, to understand what he is, he's got two things. It speeds up the process, i.e. when going to an industrial, business park, it can use part of the environmental study of the industrial park, that is, it fulfils these conditions and adds its own, own business. But the first part doesn't have to do it a second time, since he already has it from the park. So, all that changes is not on environmental terms, it's on red tape. And the second unites the two processes, i.e. the ones that came from the 1950s, with the environmental studies that are the modern way of understanding what the environmental footprint of each investment is on one thing, rather than having the categorisation of the '50s and the '90s is doing it all over again so that the process can be accelerated, but without reducing your obligations to respect the environment. Secondly, in your argument, which sounds intelligent, if we connect your salary as a teacher to the extent that you put to the student what would happen. The right answer here is yes, it is based on the argument, but if in this law there was, as it is here, that if we were to catch the student on the street then and we were to do tests and prove that it came out of a letter and got you a professor, which is a difficult thing to understand, but let's say that it was happening, and so the degree you put him was bluffed, we would take your home, your wallet, your car and your permission to be at university, then it changes the example. Would Yanis Varoufakis dare do a good job because he was paid by someone if he knew that once he was caught outside, they would take the house away from him? No, it's the answer. So you say it whole, don't say half. All the rest about Adam Smith, leave Adam Smith to us, Mr. Varoufakis, don't trouble him any more, you've left him behind. Adam Smith simply for this House is the main rapporteur for supply and demand and economic liberalism. So he obviously doesn't criminalize the concept of profit. The supply and demand are based on the concept of profit. Now, in your criticism of the Writing Observatory and how it will strengthen bureaucracy and this intelligent example was indeed intelligent. We didn't have as good ideas as you did. We didn't think about putting cameras, for example, in someone's hats to watch if they put more seals on him. I am referring to that proposal that you had as Finance Minister to put a camera on tourists and see where evidence is being cut. So intelligent ideas we didn't have, we went into more traditional ways. We believe that the Writing Observatory will help. For what? Because everyone will speak to him somewhere if they add an additional seal and an additional procedure to any ongoing procedure of the Greek State. Because the aim of the Observatory is to force all services and they will be rewarded by how far they will simplify the procedures. In other words, there is an incentive for all public services to constantly simplify all procedures, which is what is being called for. Now, as far as Mr Janakopoulos is concerned, and what he said makes no sense to answer, it is trivial. But I would now like to tell the House what amendments are being accepted. As far as the ministerial amendments are concerned, they have been shared, but I mention them, Mr Pappa, and you can take them to talk if you want today and tomorrow. The amendment, with a general number 62 and a special number 12, is to be accepted, with a number of articles on the ESRB, with the Reserve and Loan Fund, it is technical. The amendment, under a general number 63 and a special 13, is basically an amendment by the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Finance and my own, which has to do with the continuation of the payments for the construction of submarines so that workers can continue to pay the shipyards. I imagine you know it, but I quote it. The amendment, with a general number 64 and a special number 14, which deals with the limits of the strategic investment in development law, is also accepted. The amendment under a general number 67 and a special 17 is also accepted and relates to 'Help at home' and others. The amendment under general number 66, and a special 16, is accepted. Here's Golden Visa's famous thing, because I said it before in my speech, I give it to you in writing so that you can see it. I accept from the amendments tabled by Mr Ilias Konstantinos Javara, with a general number of 59 and a special number 9, concerning the possibility of local government bodies being paid in the same way by the old development laws, as are the legal persons in the narrow public sector. A law was made on your own days that the legal persons of the narrow public sector had put in, but the legal persons of local government had been excluded. We are therefore accepting the parliamentary amendment, with a general number of 59 and a specialist from Mr Constantine Javara, for the public limited companies of the local authorities by co-financed projects. I am tabling to this House and the legislative improvements to the bill and which you can take to make this debate. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the Minutes the above mentioned legislative improvements, which are as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] To enter pages 469-474
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u395	Mr. Varoufakis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u396	Minister, you obviously believe what you said. Unfortunately, your faith reveals that you do not understand what is an environmental burden. When we subsidise lignite, when we subsidise the Squirrels, when we increase the build-up factor, whether it's in business parks or outside, these are a huge environmental burden. It is the definition of an environmental burden. When we say that business starts in specific sectors, it will start, and then there will be a preventive control or a sample check to respect environmental rules, in fact what we say. We start you, build, start working, start your economic activity, and then we come and check you out. You, as Minister of Government, can you look into the eyes of the Members of this House and tell them that if we see that this economic activity was harmful to the environment, we will disburse them? Greece is still full of shells of buildings, which began building in the junta, which stopped because they did not comply with the rules and are still there in 2019. Finally, Mr Georgiadis, I would like to remind you that you are no longer in the opposition. You're Minister. And it is useful as Minister, as we look in the eyes of the House, not to reproduce propaganda of a mediator establishment, which constantly self-determination through the repetition of this propaganda. In this particular case, for the cameras on the tourists you say, you never noticed what was what I said. You were just convinced of what the channels said I said. I did nothing more than say one thing, which I think we would agree with. If there is no "the fear of the Jews" to those who tax, to know that their next customer, whether in their office or in their legal office, or in their bar in Mykonos, can be taxed or operating on the part of the tax office, we are never going to step on tax evasion. I said that in the United States, for example, the reason why no one dares to tax is that they know there are very high chances for the next customer working for the IRS and there are ways, at that time, without anything, to record transactions that after the IRS, the tax collectors, will check. This was the result of a debate with the German Ministry of Finance, in which we agreed that it was a very important section for the Greek tax authority. You want to join in with the different channels, which in the last five years I have received a huge price, aiming that way. But now that you're a Minister, it's right not to repeat these things as if you were a channel clerk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u397	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u398	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u399	The truth is technically, Mr. Papathanases who has been curated and knows very well, and I thank him for having worked very hard on the bill. I will only refer to the latter, because I wanted to tell you before and I forgot. You accused us of benefiting channels and television productions, etc., which has been heard many times here. Mr. Varoufakis, I want to speak with great honesty. In this Chamber if there are two persons perfectly favourable to the channels for them to exist in this Chamber and in politics, then I am one myself and the other is you. Therefore, for the sake of justice of what has made you a Member, you should be more modest in reproducing all this nonsense here. The channels that called you from morning until night, although until then a world-famous friend of Tsipras made you a friend, for the misfortune of Tsipras and Greece, the Minister of Finance and now the party leader, are also companies, such as the other companies of the country, we treat them as the rest of the country's business and in the economy, and these help to develop the economy of the country. Sometimes they also do some damage like Mera25, but what to do, we accept it for the sake of democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u400	Mr. Loading has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u401	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have listened so long. We have heard strong criticism of the existing bill by SYRIZA, KKE, Mer25 and Greek Solution colleagues and we have heard a lot about development. The development, therefore, comes in response to the issues of cruel reality and not with arguments of a moral nature, which we have heard just now and not of course by shouting out slogans. So it's inappropriate or useless at least. Development wants systematic study and substantial dialogue with those who are in the production process, with those who face the real obstacles, with the real obstacles and often with the law toward them, but not their own bourgeoisie. We've heard various slogans and implied ones. "We are with the people and not with capital," some said, which is something that has no place today. The capital is created by the people and by the one who produces it. After hearing various wastes, I, at least, respond with the saying of Willie Brad that 'their profits are today's investment and day-to-day jobs', which is so timely than ever for the existing bill. Now let's go talk about the existing bill. The law to be passed shows without doubt that this government was ready to take over the country's rulership. The failures of the institutional framework had been identified. Proposals had been drawn up, including the producer bodies, business and experts. In a very short time, therefore, since the takeover of governance, a comprehensive and detailed draft was presented before us, first, with surgical accuracy, to make critical adjustments to the existing institutional framework, in order to liberate the country's development dynamics, while introducing new institutions that will give solutions to chronic development problems, such as the Single Digital Map of Geographical Data. We are now going to three basic things, three key words, which are also the mark of this bill. First of all, I should like to simplify, secondly, rationalise and thirdly reorganise. Firstly, the draft law promotes development by simplifying procedures, removing obstacles to the development of business and investment activity. Secondly, rationalising the functioning of institutions so that they can function efficiently. And thirdly, as a whole, redeeming the exercise of various activities, removing stumbling blocks to give air for creation and investment in Greece that it produces. Now, the existing bill essentially supports major social problems primarily in the workplace. This is an answer to the JRC's colleagues, because you cannot have an improvement in the business environment unless you protect your employees in business so that it is a business environment not just development, but a healthy environment. On the other hand, genuine protection of private sector workers is not achieved by unnecessary bureaucracy and overregulation, which is choking companies, and does not restrict the abuse of rights. So, beyond development, the existing draft law also promotes institutional innovation. New institutions are being set up which are reformist areas and provide solutions that have been expected for both the state and the citizen and for the professional. Now let's go see some important points of the bill for island Greece, but also for island local economies, which was also raised by the Chief of Mera 25. Looking at the law being passed under the filter of islands, I find some important interventions that pave the way for the islands' adapted development. Firstly, in the island area we have many small businesses in need of rapid, easy and effective procedures. For island businesses, therefore, the processing of procedures causes valuable man-time costs and expense due to scattered services on many islands. The current bill, therefore, introduces, firstly, accelerate procedures through GEMI, secondly, exploiting partnerships with notaries and thirdly, automated entries. Secondly, with the establishment of the National Development Programme for the development of national public investment resources, regions will now form a Strategic Public Investment Programme based on the needs of local municipalities. The Strategic Programme will complement funding through the ESRB and can thus be covered in a more flexible way with development needs, but also with infrastructure needs. Thirdly, the existing bill simplifys the conditions for municipalities to be able by public contracts to entrust private functions, such as waste collection, green spaces as well as electric lighting. So, actually, what's going on? The hands of the mayors are resolved so that by exploiting private individuals, along with any recruitment to human resources, they can provide efficient and quality services to the public. After all, the economic theory has now shown decades that the provision of services by public bodies is qualitatively worse and economically inconsistent with the services provided by the private economy. Fourthly, particularly in the island area with special relief, the particular spatial areas, as well as the protection areas, the problem of finding the accuracy, but also of checking the appropriate geographical data, finds a solution through the Single Digital Charter. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] Fifthly, we are going to introduce regulations and procedures into individual laws without an island clause, without taking into account the specificities of the islands. This involves, among other things, an excessive and often irrational bureaucratic burden on islands, but also on islands. So through the National Simplification Programme, we look forward to specific adaptations of procedures, mainly by exploiting digital governance, especially for island regions. Ladies and gentlemen, in any case we have an ambitious reform agenda in front of us. This bill marks a new era for Greece, restoring growth, attracting investments and creating new jobs. Only in this way will we get out of the vicious circle that has kept our country back for at least a decade. For all these reasons, Mr President, we are voting in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u402	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House of thirty-nine students and students and four educational attendants from the 18th Municipal School of Ioannina. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Papapathanasis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u403	Mr President, thank you. Let me clarify something that was heard by the President of Mera25, Mr Varoufakis. There are two ways of environmental licensing. One is the standard environmental commitments and the other is the environmental impact study. It has been mentioned by the President that when an undertaking starts operating within a business park - I must make it clear to you that this is something that is happening throughout Europe and in America - the operation which only starts with a notification within the business park is the same as the operation of the business park. In other words, the business park is licensed for category B, which is the average nuisance, so under the new category A2, the company starts operation because it is the same ranking and has to prepare an environmental impact study. The obligation to prepare an environmental impact assessment is not removed at all. Now, let's say how business works. Businesses are starting either by notification, as we have said, or by operating authorisation. 80% of enterprises today in Greece only start with notification. This does not mean that they do not have to produce the permits. Therefore, in this bill, what the Minister said is the right one, that we are not undermining the concept of environmental licensing at all. Not only do we degrade it, but we strengthen it. All we are simplifying is that at the start of operation you don't need to collect all these cards, which were obliged to collect earlier, and it may start immediately. But the environmental impact study must have it in order to be able to function.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u404	Thank you, Minister, for you have been brief. You set an example of shortness and time savings, because I see that we have reached twenty-nine and it is thirty-two colleagues. I'll beg the seven-minute to be kept. Mr Leonardis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u405	Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that Greece is thirsty for investment after a decade of disastrous economic crisis. Both society and the market expect through bold initiatives to establish clear rules in the relations between state, business and workers, remove barriers to investment, modernise and digitise public administration, to become a development leap, which is the national objective. And that's what the Prime Minister and the government do with this development plan. We are legislating fundamental changes and deep areas to reintroduce the 'radar' of attracting domestic and foreign investors. The arrangements of the 'Investing in Greece and other provisions' are in the sphere of common sense, in the direction of sustainable development with respect for the environment. Now is the crucial moment, which must strengthen the growth potential of the Greek economy, and that is what we are doing. Today many strategic investment for Greece remains on paper as their licensing is being delayed. Instead of acting as a development tool, investment laws entangle investors into administrative processes and delays, depriving them of valuable resources from the country and the economy and new jobs from society and citizens. The development draft law provides for greater flexibility in investment that is considered strategic, so that they can be quickly licensed. The scanning interventions contained in the bill allow for the formation of fertile soil and a friendly climate to attract new investments, leaving behind the obstacles of the past. In particular, it provides for the simplification of environmental authorisations, the facilitation of business within business parks, a single digital map, imprinting and concentration of all geographical data - for example, conditions and limitations on building, forests and forest land, aegean, archaeological sites, NATURA areas in a single digital system - and the creation of a digital land bank, the creation of a national register of infrastructure in which all the public buildings and infrastructures of the country will be presented. The process of integrating an industrial activity is also simplified and a national simplification programme is in place. The transactions for which the GFCM exercises control over more than one company shall be recorded and published automatically by the companies. Procedures for justice shall be speeded up by digitisation of legal instruments. There are anachronistic provisions, such as the provision of Law 4423/2006 concerning logging and all those who are engaged in and freely selling their goods, which were in existence. The labour and insurance provisions introduced to the vote in the development bill deal with crucial issues in the field of labour market and social security. The aim is to create a socially just and efficient social state. Among the important provisions - because I have no time to mention them all - are: in collective labour relations, in line with existing European practice, in particular in countries with advanced labour relations systems and a developed social state, by strengthening and broadening the scope of collective bargaining. In individual employment relationships, the employer's delay in paying wages is considered to be a harmful change in working conditions and therefore a contract is terminated but a time limit is entered. An additional 12% increase in the cost of the additional hours shall be increased if the agreed conditions for parttime work are exceeded. The role of the information system "ERGANI" in recording labour and employment is being upgraded. Undeclared work is being fought. We are definitely facing the unacceptable situation of the hundreds of thousands of outstanding pensions, which was and is a wound to the dignity of pensioners and the whole of society. Our aim is for at least two years from now, 90% of new pensions to be issued immediately. In the first phase, of course, by means of a special provision, the right to adopt pension decisions is conferred on the directors of regional services and organic structures and, secondly, by promoting a legislative initiative for the large digital jump ‘ATLAS’, since June 2020, new pensions will be issued digitally and directly. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the years of the crisis have been, especially in the region, a lack of new investments and there have been locks in many companies that once flourished. The Serres Prefecture as a gateway to and from the European Union paid comparatively the "marble" of deinvestment as a result of the crisis, and it has the sad privilege of occupying the last per capita GDP position among all the counties of the country. For many years now, town camps have been devastated and have not been given the opportunity for the Chamber to exploit the space of a camp for the creation of a business park or for the creation of a regional farm auction outside the urban web and next to the vertical axis of Egnatia Road, which will create multiplier benefits in the rural economy and entrepreneurship. There are strangles, bureaucracy, property regime and involved in the same city Ministries and local government, as if they were rivals. To dismantle the procedures in order to develop economic activities, we have to overcome such claws and bureaucratic processes that have cost the place expensive. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis with the development plan and the tax bill, which aims to reduce taxes and which will be voted on in the next period, proceeds with a realistic plan on the path of development for a better future. And that is what our fellow citizens and those who naturally want to invest in Greece are aware of. And I believe that, with the favourable climate that exists, many will be those investors, after all that we are legislating on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u406	Thank you, Mr Lentaridis, for keeping time. Mr Gregoriadis has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u407	Thank you very much. It's not too late, as our people say, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u408	He's early.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u409	At 19.00 I said that he wanted me to speak, and as a parliamentary representative, you know better than I do, that you ask some time to speak. Now it's 22:00. It's okay. We'll all make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u410	That's what's going on here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u411	Well, let's start by Minister Georgiadis. We owe him an answer, since our Chief left, not because he avoided the answer. He would've had a lot of fun answering it, as he does, but, you know, he had to be on a live show at the ERT, at our state channel, at 22:00 and he had to. He got away from him, I imagine, from our Minister - I cannot imagine any other way to make that clear in the House delegation - that he and Mr Varoufakis would be inexistent if they were not the two most favored people in Greece from the well-known five private channels, the wonderful channels of interactive, interests of Alfouzo, Bobola, Vardinoyannis. The list doesn't stop. You know them very well. You especially know them better. Some of you know them personally, I imagine. Well, Mr. Georgiadis, although you are not here, I should answer that you are indeed the most favoured man, because, like the old Minister of PASOK, Mr. Katsifaras, I think he said that he would not know us either, if he was not Andrew, indeed, if he was all this horrible strife and a terrible sinner in the country, I fear that Mr. Georgiadis would not know him either. I also have to say that, as far as I know from his curriculum, Mr Georgiadis has never had the luck and honour of being a regular professor in Cambridge, in one of the two or three most important universities in the world, nor of Mr Georgiadis, nor of any international literature does he systematically mention, like our Chief, that this is perhaps the most important economist in the field of macro-economics, that is to say, the major models. I now take this opportunity to reply to the other Minister, who, unfortunately, also escaped from me, Mr Brutsi, who raised a rhetoric question. As you all know better than me, rhetoric questions are common to be answered by the questioner himself. So he asked us the question: ‘ Are we happy here, with the growth that we have achieved? Is you doing in this Chamber happy where we are?" And of course, as usual, he said, 'no'. Indeed, Mr Brutsi, we are not at all happy, but let me fill in a small question of my own: Who do you say, quite rightly, is responsible for what we are all so unhappy about? I wonder, do you think I was responsible for playing the "North and South Korea Reunion" game in the basement of Kun at the Art Theatre five and a half years ago, or perhaps a little more to you? I look that way, even though Mr. Brutsi is missing. I'm looking at him. Five-and-a-half years ago, if I remember correctly, you were Minister of State since the Ministry of Employment at the time, as workers in this place are now obviously employed, i.e. they have jobs. They don't work. They don't produce any work. I think the Minister of Employment will probably be a little more responsible than an actor - from all over Mera25 - for the situation in which investment is in the country today. Now the obvious underdevelopment bill that brings to Parliament today the New Democracy Government 'Investing in Greece', in my humble opinion, could well be called 'absolutely in Greece', as it could also be called 'absolutely in Greece', since the Greek Government may be the only government in the whole world at the moment, which even before I invest it, gives me guarantees for facilitations to my investment in the most critical areas, as you all know, for the business of the total destruction of the environment, the dismantling of any molecular left over from the past of our industrial relations, the increase of course - in order not to forget - of all the building factors, where we can, but also the lifting of any possible archaeological - take note of the word - which is to be found in my path. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not intend to tire you too in my turn by referring to articles on articles. I intended only to do this for Article 211, which is clearly a very dangerous article and which you still have some time to read again. This article, therefore, completely abolishes the so-called "substantially" for all of us elected, at least in the way we knew it to date. And to see exactly what I mean, I'll take a little more time for that, to tell you that to this day, in order to control my "subjects" or "subjects", it would be a prerequisite to lifting the bank as well as any other confidentiality governs my existence. However, with Article 211 - which I fear you will vote on tomorrow - this phrase is replaced by 'if necessary'. If you consider the phrases from "it is a precondition for the lifting of secrecy... of what governs my existence" until "if required" - which they decide, I inform you, seven judges of independent Greek justice, assisted by two of your MPs and a Member of the Officerial Representation - the things about "subjects" inspire me at least a small, so much cost, concern. Ladies and gentlemen, over the past few days I have listened with gratitude to the committees - four times, I think - all the co-legislative ministers strive to explain to us that all or almost all of them, in any case, the stakeholders and market players have exclaimed together as being magically 'to at last this is a genuinely development bill', a bill that takes years of bureaucratic problems and stumblings, a bill which simplifys entrepreneurship in general while motivating investors. However - and I think this has an interest - on the day that all of us together met the real actors of real life, I didn't hear one - or one! - a representative of workers of any grade - I mean from the workers to the scientists - who agrees with this view. Of course, the Greek Industrial Association agreed, which at least to us in Mera25 made no impression. But the workers in this long-standing and long-awaited development are now expected to be the most decisive in reality as to whether or not this is finally coming or not, they had a completely different opinion. Immediately my mind went back to the dirty July 2015 pentabromist, as you will remember then, almost a disgraceful referendum. And then again, various actors and actors were supposed to be all in favour of 'yes' and indeed all of 'yes', and they also prevented it. The Greek people sometimes make scandals, they make surprises! So he had a completely different opinion, such as the workers, the workers' operators here the other day. On Sunday night, then, on July 25, 2015, all these so-called special bodies and actors were looking forward to, shocked, one would say, the wonderful TV screens of their TVs writing a huge, giant - and for them, I fear or I imagine completely incomprehensible -62% 'no'. So now I'm afraid you will, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. Why? Because this completely - apologies for the heavy expression, but I believe and have to say it from this Step, is my destination - an immoral draft law brought today by your resignation to the Greek Parliament will probably go through thanks to the outraged analogy that has been stolen from the Greek people of 50 Members of Parliament and has given them the same way to you. And it's probably going to pass, unless you find any pathetic men of your class, which is, I'm sorry to say, I've been hoping for a long time. But even if tomorrow's state law becomes this bill, ladies and gentlemen, it is not going to bring about growth. And it is not going to bring just because it is the same unsuccessful recipe, which is even reinforced, of our last ten memorial years that have overshadowed the economy and brought down recession, because it is the same unsuccessful recipe that is intended again to attract unscrupulous, predatorial and uncontrolled entrepreneurs, and that is why they are being put in front of them an uncontrolled environment in all areas of business, something like the capitalist paradise on earth. On the other hand, this bill is deeply immoral, because it also introduces the institutionally obscene concept of competitiveness, which puts it above all the well-being of businesses and puts it even above the well-being of people. It is also immoral towards the citizens of this country because it continues to be a failed recipe, which, as your rapporteur, Mr New Democracy, said this morning, this morning, has limited, because it is the same one and you do not want me to be someone else, the investments within a decade of 60 billion. the year in 2007 at EUR 20 billion; the year in 2018. Your rapporteur has said a lot, but as my time is running out, I will leave it to you and I will only tell you the following. Do you really think that we're completely naive, that we've had a whole lot of other opinions for years? We believe, for example, that growth has been braked for so many years, mainly because it is being swept away by these incredible primary surpluses. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We also believe that it is braked by the unheard of and the original measure of the 100% tax advance for the other year. Do you know any serious businessmen who wouldn't go to Bulgaria or Cyprus, which has 10% tax, and would come to Greece, to have a total of 52% tax per year? You can't do that. However, the most important thing is that there is no one in the world of a serious businessman who would invest in a country where its government in a good deal of sympathy with the European institutions has been hiding its four-sided bankruptcy for ten years. It is a country that is bankrupt in its public sector, in its private sector, in its households and banks. If I were a big investor, I would say: 'To bake me all the European Union, the illegal and the government of this country that has not been bankrupt, a country that is clearly and globally known as bankrupt, will probably have a pit.' So look at what really is to blame is not to grow and stop baconing on the idea that it is to blame that there are still people who get EUR 257 mixed - I mean in the private sector - and you have to make them 100. Thank you very much for your tolerance and your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u412	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Lambroulis from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u413	Thank you, Mr President. With the so-called ‘development bill’, the New Democracy Government is going to implement the declared requirements of business groups, confirming that growth for all who eats only concerns them and not the workers, producers of social wealth. That is what capitalist development, zealously serving both the current New Democracy Government and the former SYRIZA government, is demanding. A prerequisite for this development is the even greater compression of wages and labour rights and freedoms, the dismantling of the labour union movement, which is really fighting for the interests of workers, the perpetuation of unacceptable and inappropriate wages, the work of the foot without rights and protection, the working middle-ages without end. Thus, under the legislature of the new anti-Salan spinner, the government aims to scan what was left of wages and rights, challenging to overthrow the rival attack that, with a new momentum, continues where the previous SYRIZA government left it. In fact, with a dissatisfaction, it attempts to make the black white and to show as a charitable bill a overwhelming blow to collective labour contracts and especially to sectoral contracts, putting the wages under permanent pressure, putting under suffocating control the operation of the trade unions with the electronic file, hitting the general assemblies, at the same time giving them all to big capital through tax exemptions, facilitations and all kinds of privileges, while in the name of combating bureaucracy it gives the opportunity for investment, where and in whatever terms the capitalists want, unleashing at the expense of the people and the environment. This is why the employers' representatives in the Committee of Instituto de la Malène, all of them being very positive about the interventions of the government bill, after forming a friendly investment environment, at the same time showing that the common goal of government and employers is to make wages even greater underpression by individual or operational contracts, with much lower pay and work conditions and even the poor level imposed on minimum wages. In fact, it is characteristic of the continuation of the single anti-government attack that, in order to support the new provisions, the government invokes in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law the corresponding reactionary measures that have taken place in the countries of the European Union since the 1990s and the Committee of Experts set up by the SYRIZA Government, in the conclusion of which - as early as September 2016 - recommendations are contained for a number of exceptions to the application of sectoral and homogeneous collective agreements. At the same time, the provisions of the bill in conjunction with the Brutsi-Achtsioglou Act, to determine the minimum wage by ministerial decision and on the basis of the competitiveness of business groups, i.e. their profitability, give the individual government, as a whole, the urban state, the first and last reason for determining the wages, the total of the working conditions, since they give the Minister of Labour the power to determine which companies will be excluded from the sectoral contracts, and what sectoral contracts will be cut from their proclamation as compulsory, with the argument that they affect competitiveness. In other words, the governments and the respective Ministers of Labour, in line with the 'decision and order' of business interests, will define everything, control the trade unions, general meetings, their issues, their decisions. Well, after all this, we can see no Minister, for example, or any representative of BSE, president of any trade union organization, since the bill strengthens already existing cooperation with employers and government unions in particular. Target? To impose on the trade unions, the movement, the workers, under the suffocation of a state and an employer, the silence of a cemetery so that they do not react, by organising their struggle, their claims, through the collective procedures of their unions, their trade unions. So, with the proposed provisions, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are aiming at hitting the democratic functioning of the trade unions and opening up the way to strengthening the workers' file while, with electronic votes, you are attempting to cut the ties of the employees themselves, the inalienable, that is, their right to be informed, collectively debated through their assemblies, to reconcile their demands, their action, to organise their strikes and other mobilisations together. Faced with the overriding government bill one is - and it must be - the workers' response: with greater fighting, force and determination, to continue their action not only against the bill but also against the anti-government policy of government and employers in general, over and above and beyond the compromised trade union leaders, who have done all they can to ensure that there is fish silence not only on the grounds of the bill we are discussing today, but also on the whole of the new anti-government measures which have been promoted by all governments, thereby paying off their commitments to BSE and other employers' associations in support of anti-government measures, but also on the grounds of confusing and fatalism among workers. One-way for workers is the strengthening of the massive, class resistance current, the strengthening of the popular alliance towards the anti-grassian, anti-government attack on government and business groups, claiming modern terms of work and pay and life with rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u414	Thank you, Mr Lambroulis, for in fact - he said so myself, I repeat - he was consistent in time. In order to make it easier for all Members, I will say that whoever is not present when called at the Step, his speech will not be taken for tomorrow. My colleague, Mr Kouvellas, then Mr Athanasios, has the floor. Here, Mr. Kouvela, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u415	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, a British economist in the 1930s said: "Successful investments are those within a safe environment, you can predict the investment plans of others." These words also apply today, this debate. The assumption that investment and growth need as safe a environment as possible is self-evident nowadays. Two security factors would stand out: first, stable legal and fiscal framework. Secondly, political stability, which is highly dependent on economic stability. The lack of these has been in recent years and the great problem for our country, the fact that almost everything has been unpredictable in an insecure environment and, moreover, no investment incentives to change for the better. Today the juncture is indeed ideal. Recently, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has become self-sufficient, with a strong mandate to raise the economy and to shape the framework within which investment and wealth creation will benefit, which will bring many and better jobs, especially for young people. This political stability is a major comparative advantage for Greece, while most Eurozone countries are trying to preserve sensitive major government coalitions. We are one of the few countries in Europe that has a self-government government, ladies and gentlemen. The important bill, therefore, with two hundred thirteen provisions, with responsibility for seventeen ministries, is to respond to the need for a new framework of legislative and fiscal stability. It is the catalyst through which the country's productive forces will be activated and aims to remove the dozens of investment barriers to licensing issues. Mr Janakopoulos spoke earlier about identifying auditors and audits. Is it better to lure two and a half thousand investment projects or with the help and responsibility - to highlight it - private auditors to speed up procedures? What do you say? It also regulates urban issues, labour, environmental issues, placing the cue very high, to the level of the requirements of the digital age and good practices at European and international level, of course for the benefit of investors, but also of the natural environment, which is all upset and we have the agony of maintaining it, ladies and gentlemen. It is not just some Members of this House have this sensitivity. The draft law comes to cure bureaucratic weaknesses that come from the sinful past, but also from the bad and fragmentary legacy, which reaches the limits of misconduct and evil, to achieve many times and small reforms quickly, but which change the business environment directly, give significant help to startups, but also to businesses that face serious financial problems, so that they stand on their feet and get back on their way. They support workers, limiting precarious work, and strengthen the healthy, transparent and representative representation of the social partners. I come from a beautiful region of Greece, central Macedonia and as an MEP of Thessaloniki, I have another reason to wish to overcome any obstacles to being able to attract investment. Central Macedonia has long been experiencing very high unemployment rates. According to reliable data from ELSTAT, unemployment reaches 20%. Especially young people are over 30%. Recent research by the Association of Industries of Northern Greece reveals the true size of the deindustrialisation of the region. Especially in Thessaloniki, the rates are 69%, while the so-called "Macedonian North Helladic Arc" exceeds 80% of the total business. Thessaloniki is required - and the new development law will become the tool - to become a centre of Southeast Europe, a hub of innovative digital investment, a high-level tourist benefits hub. It is time for the port of Thessaloniki to become more than a transport, transit and business centre, having been connected to the rail network, which is a high priority in the area of infrastructure for our Government. Thus, central Macedonia will become a place and place for strategic investments that will progress quickly without the well-known bureaucratic obstacles. I remind you of the recent success of the Ministry of Development that Thessaloniki will be chosen as the seat of one of the six research centres worldwide for artificial intelligence and innovation set by the well-known pharmaceutical industry "PFIZER". I would also like to congratulate the Minister, Mr Georgiadis, on the solution he brings to the problem of the central vegetable market in Thessaloniki, which actually works without urban permission today, causing insecurity to about three hundred businesses. This ends with the vote of the bill. For those who like to watch the numbers, with whom we say many times truths, but sadly and several times great lies, a truth - because it comes from the well-known “Doing Business” tool of the World Bank - it is that Greece in 2019 was in the seventeenth second place of nineteenth and last place in relation to the rich economies - members of the OECD, while in the European Union it was our 20th seventh place among our twenty-seventh partners. I shall refer very quickly to the establishment of the national simplification programme. The administration of justice is accelerating, and there our performance is too low. I only mention that we have the second lowest score in the European Union in the use of electronic means of communication between the courts with the parties, but also in the use of information technologies for handling cases. The Single Digital Map is the "bousula" for the candidate investor, where it will accurately capture all the elements and data of property that are interested in investment and will be binding on the administration. I will conclude by saying that this draft law brings about radical changes in the labour market by combating undeclared work. The transparency and usefulness of trade unions in our country is strengthened and the prestige of the trade unions' decisions, which will no longer be ghosts, seals or monkeys, will be established. With this draft law, therefore, everything must be done, so that it can quickly start to smoke again from the factory wretchs, that investment in the heavy industry in our country can be effectively supported, that new professionals, young entrepreneurs and young scientists can reinvigorate. In conclusion, I am presenting to the Minutes, and I am thinking of the Minister, Mr Georgiadis, of the proposal from the three hundred and fifty businesses and citizens' associations in Thessaloniki and central Macedonia concerning the regulation of low and average nuisance activities. It is about specific areas of Thessaloniki. I would ask you for your particular attention at this point until the final adoption of the law. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kouvellas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis needs to succeed and it will succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u416	Mr Athanasios Athanasios from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u417	Thank you, Mr President. The previous one mentioned central Macedonia, other colleagues in their constituency. I would very much like to see what we used to call 'conservation' and now, in order to sweeten it, we call it'region' or at least the Members from the region of New Democracy. I have my word and you'll understand it right away. We've been taught a lot by the Mitsotakis Government, Mr. President. We knew that parliamentary groups were leaving the House. We have heard that there are also ministerial councils leaving. We knew that the refugees are coming because Tsipras opened the border, Tassia does well, and Germany keeps them. We finally learned that the cause lies in the geopolitical reasons, i.e. in the enemies of the skirts. We knew that the FBI is so persistent in complying with the laws that the President of the United States is not even touched. We've heard that for the FBI, we need to lose any idea. We knew the New Democracy was solid. We have learned that she may once be missing six 'beans'. We knew that they did not propose Mr Samaras for the European Commission, because Greece will not take the position of a Vice-President. So we learned that Mr. Spines is not among the Greeks. We knew the Prespecies Agreement was treacherous. We have now learned that it is worthy to be honored. We have also learned that you have been terrified by the attitude of Paris on the European course of Skopje. They've ruled out it. You were terrified, who were electorally told that you would make life difficult for them when the chapters of the negotiations were opened. We knew you were the Balkan couches. We've heard you want to remain composters. We knew that individuals, citizens, are subject to the laws. That's very essential. We have learned that in today's Greece the laws are subject to people, see NSA. Anyway. This is the first one after many years of government that has received a full fund. There are no riches, but there is a comfortable managing economy. In Astoria, addressing the audience who applauded many times and speaking from breasts, the Prime Minister said: "I want you to know that we have every reason to look for the future with optimism. The years of the crisis are over. The optimistic Greece opens wings." "The years of the crisis are over." Oh, no? What do you think, son? You're wonderful, Mr. Mitsotakis. You did it. Only Mr. Tragas disagrees. We're easy to forget in this country. We celebrate, for example, for sub-zero interest rates in lentils, but we forget to ask Mr Stournara. Do you have to apologise? I'll say it, and I'll say it again. Mr. Stournaras was saying to go to a credit line, because the political system can't, it's not capable of doing it. He has an institutional office. Should he apologize for giving an explanation? Don't be disappointed, gentlemen of the New Democracy. In a country where there are no readers anymore, you have much hope of doing well. What is this 'bombing' bill doing - I will explain why, if I may take the opportunity - for the 'airports' development model that has led us to bankruptcy? Let me tell you what he's doing. It abolishes the "possibly" in the canalarchs. Repeals the naming of the owners of SMEs. Speaking of the folk, we'll never know who's behind it. This is the first 'bomb'. Here again, see the "airport" model. This is the dangerous 'alternatives' - not the American institution of public interest witnesses - hidden shareholders in the media. Well, don't you even respect your story? Your achievement was the law on the main shareholder, the current President of the Republic, who was justified in European justice, to be condemned by the Greek. What else does this development bill provide for? It provides for the exclusion of undertakings from the application of national collective agreements. Specific conditions excluding sectors and areas are laid down. Keep it ‘an exception’, keep it ‘regions’. You will see how these areas are mainly the province, what we now call the'region', which will condemn poverty and poverty by those from New Democracy who represent it. Greek economic science, you know, does not have the honesty of raw terminology. We're collectively calling the contracts. The 'collective' refers to many and irrelevant, confusing. If you add the "national", something's done. I wanted to explain what 'collective contracts' means, but quite simply, for people to understand it, as they understand bread and cheese. I've been looking a lot. And where did I end up? In the honesty of the Anglo-Saxon arrogance in relation to, for example, Italy, as reflected in the ‘ECNOMIST’ of 13 July 2018. That's where they talk about "country side" contracts. How can I translate it? I will say it enticingly, but to be precise: they are valid throughout the country. I read: “Many of the reasons for the grim prospects for Italy’s development are decades back. The service sector is protected by competition. National pay contracts retain wages very high in the south, deterring the growth of employment there.’ Did you hear that? 'They keep wages very high in the south'. Who's keeping the wages up in the south? The international conventions, the ones we call 'collective' here. They say to the Italians: An employee in Naples is a crime for the same job to take just as much as the employee in Milan. The same thing they start doing here. They've been asking for it for five years. The government of SYRIZA rejected them and restored it by the Government of New Democracy. A worker in Eurydice should not take the same money for the same work as a worker in Attica or Thessaloniki, Mr. Kouvella. Is Patra listening? Do they hear the Grevenes? Is Fokida and Florina listening? You will wake up one morning to find that for every 10 euros of Athens you would take 3.5 and do the same job. You will tell me, Minister, that the provision concerns workers employed in special categories of undertakings, in bankruptcy and so on. Reply: Your intention is to become the beginning - and we see - to break the glass, break the ice and then expand it, although it will expand itself. If such an undertaking is now put into such a scheme, will they not follow any more? And how many are there going to be? This is the second bomb you install in the system. You have a talent in creating mechanisms of law corruption, which you very much do not abolish, but you are simply creating two - three exceptions. But there is another mechanism of deterioration. There's a third bomb. It's about undeclared work. First, you're reducing the fine. I've done a lot of the frustrations. Secondly, you are abolishing the employer's obligation for at least three months of retroactive payment for each undeclared worker. We should come to the wicked now. What will business think? They will work with undeclared and, once they are caught, they will say in them: “How nice, we will now legally hire you. It's no big deal. We'll pay something a little." A little for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u418	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u419	Mr President, you know, you'd better wait in line for an old IKA dentist than the Greek Parliament to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u420	So, what do we have to do? If you find a solution for me to speak a hundred and thirty-two speakers, I will accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u421	A solution has been proposed here by Mr Manolis Glezos: one week parliamentary control, one week committees and one week legislative work and one week in our constituency. It's the German system.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u422	Complete, because there are certain rules and time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u423	I answer what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u424	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u425	Minister, I am not overlooking the economic school which considers the undermining of collective agreements to be beneficial reform. It considers inequality to be beneficial. So we say that we will achieve economic growth. But there is another school - I would like to point out to you! - to the West! It is that school that has devastated large fires over the past decades in socialist and left democratic governments and recently in Barack Obama. They had their Kifisia too, they had their Crabs too. But they insisted that for the same job the one who works in the Crabaras will not get less than the one who works in Kifisia.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u426	And close now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u427	I'm closing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u428	You went in ten minutes and that's not right. Hot request, don't make me difficult. Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u429	If I'm being followed in Larissa, in Trikala, in Xanthi, in West Attica, in which you are elected, Mr President, I warn them. Today they're condemning you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u430	The Minister for Development and Investment Mr Dimas has the floor. And to say that after Mr Dimas all the time is for the MPs. There will be no further interference by any minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u431	Tomorrow?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u432	I don't know, I don't have a picture yet. In the morning, he has six topical questions, and at about 10:30, he starts the bill and concludes - as Mr. Vitsats has announced - at 22:00 at night. That is why we should be very warm to keep as much time as possible. I wish there was a possibility and no one would object. But it's a hundred and thirty two registered and we're in number 33. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u433	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a bill, which has as its main aim to contribute to improving the country's competitiveness. In the research and innovation portfolio - which I have the responsibility of - there are important challenges ahead of us, and in this draft law we are taking a first small step towards tackling them. Today Greece is 20 in twenty-eight countries of the European Union in the European Innovation Index for 2019, and ranks forty-eight in twenty-nine countries in the corresponding global index. While we have the scientific potential, unfortunately we have not managed to use it to the extent that we should. As the Prime Minister has pointed out from the moment on, innovation will have a central role to play in the country's new development model, to face challenges such as climate change, competitiveness, the fourth industrial revolution, national security, digital transformation, health sciences and energy transition. Our bet is to implement an ambitious, but realistic, agenda and mobilise all available national forces in order to boost research and innovation by means of a vehicle to strengthen the country's international position. That is why Article 143 proposes the establishment of the National Council for Research, Technology and Innovation. The aim is to cover the gap between research and innovation. Unfortunately, today we have excellent research results, but low transformation of them into innovative products and services. Despite the fact that progress has been made, there is still a long way to go, if we want to have a leading role at international level and a leading role in the Balkans and Southeast Europe. The establishment of the ESRB is important because it will act as a state’s highest advisory body in the development of a national strategy for research, technology and innovation. Its task is to monitor national, European and international developments and to make proposals and to make public an annual national strategy for research and innovation, which we aspire to be the basis of planning for the government and all public administration. There are five major differences in the current pattern. Firstly, it will not consist solely of academics and researchers. Of course, Greek researchers and academics will participate. But internationally renowned personalities will participate in the market and the ecosystem of innovation, those who have experienced how an idea develops into a successful startup operation. There'll be two committees. The Committee on Research and Technology, which will focus on the issues of basic and applied research, and the Committee on Innovation and Intelligent Entrepreneurship, which will address issues of innovation development and improvement of the business environment in which newly developed enterprises, in other words, the development of a sustainable and hospitable ecosystem. Secondly, the ESRB will consist of eleven members, a number reduced significantly in relation to the current structure, because we want a flexible and functional structure. It is obvious that we do not want a decorative instrument, but a structure with scientists and technocrats from different academic fields, different institutions, both internal and external, and from different objects. Their common element will be to engage in national effort and their commitment to improving the country's international position in science and innovation. Thirdly, it was not in the past that the proposals on the country's strategic planning had to be made public. We now expressly foresee it, precisely because we want the people involved in cutting-edge technology to have a say on how we can make more substantial progress and society able to see and assess the proposals that are being made. Fourthly, for the first time, we ensure the participation of the Greek Research Union at the meetings of the ESRB. It is our belief that the country's highest advisory body on research should be involved in order to reconcile opinions with the state. Fifthly, the mission of the new institution includes encouraging public bodies to incorporate research results and innovative products and services created by supervised bodies of the General Secretariat of Research and Technology. In other words, we have the knowledge and the public administration must take advantage of it. Article 142 amends the provisions concerning the evaluation of the research centres and institutes in the country. The latest assessment has been made many years ago, which is a problem for the research centres themselves, which want to assess their scientific work. Unfortunately, while the process should have been launched and completed, there was no design at the Ministry in the previous years. We are therefore legislating to proceed with the process and to be evaluated by Greek and international legal persons with proven experience, know-how and international authority. I shall conclude, Mr President. With Article 145 we amend the organization of the Foundation of the Hellenic World in order to broaden the range of its activities. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see from the provisions of the bill, the central objective is to improve what we can to make the state more effective. Our enemy is not any previous government. Our enthusiasm is the country's low position in all the indicators of competitiveness. With hard work we have already begun to improve the situation so that the country and the economy become competitive. I ask you to vote in favour of the provisions as a vote of confidence in a Greece that is changing, transforming and can look much more optimistic tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u434	Thank you, too, Mr. Minister. Mr Stavros Arachovitis has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u435	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's question is who is talking about work, labour relations and investment. It speaks New Democracy, which in its previous term, until 2014, has implemented the policies it proposes today in the bill, thus reaching unemployment to 27%, institutionalising flexible working relationships, bringing thousands of padlocks to small and medium-sized enterprises, bringing the biggest loss of GDP after the war and in a period of peace and reaching the insurance funds to the limits of bankruptcy, without cash. These neoliberal policies proposed today by the bill have been tested very recently in our country with the tragic results experienced by Greek society. Ladies and gentlemen, the hardest representatives of the International Monetary Fund and the Troika, which our people have challenged and characterised in a variety of ways, using the rich vocabulary of the Greek language, rub their hands, after returning to our country through the articles on the work of today's bill. In the lines and articles of today's bill, provisions of the Second Memorandum are reintroduced with the stamp of the Ministry of Labour. You are trying, Mr Ministers, to bring back the degradation of industrial relations, cheap and unprotected work. To understand each worker, bring a memo from the window. Reinstate with the bill cheap, precarious work, lower wages. Faithful to the basic neoliberal principle, which says that by reducing wages there will also be a dynamic for growth and unemployment will be reduced, you are attempting to dismantle labour relations again. I would remind you that only the collective agreement of workers at hotels, which was extended by the SYRIZA government, covers 100 000 workers in the country and provides for a minimum wage of EUR 800. So the next day, since the bill was passed, for workers to know what they are waiting for, it will also be possible and legal to fall to EUR 650. You are creating the framework for precarious work, while respecting Mr Mitsotakis' summer promise to the most ruthless opportunity employers, you are abolishing the measures to protect workers from undeclared work. With the proposed regulations, practically all the anti-incidents are made to legally recruit workers. The employer will not be obliged to retroactively insure undeclared workers for three months, thereby recognising the opportunityal and only the obligation of employers and the opportunities for workers. Transfer critical public functions from the state to private individuals, faithful again to the neoliberal model you have chosen. Your development comes from the assignment of public functions to private business interests. But have you not been taught by transferring security, cleanliness, feeding to public hospitals to private individuals, resulting both in increased public costs and in converting jobs to poorly paid and insecure? It's a recent memory. You do not, however, only grant the collection and transport of waste and recyclable materials, the cleanliness of public spaces, public buildings, the maintenance of green spaces, electricity to private persons from the OTA. You assign and functions crucial to our agricultural products. In particular, Article 150(1) allows the public and private bodies to grant PDO, PGI and SPV marks. These products, some of which are flagships not only of our country, but of the European Union in trade with third countries, must, ladies and gentlemen, guard them as an eye daughter. Instead of that, you allow the draft law not to be accompanied by the award of the trade mark by critical information that will protect them. Your development in a short time proposes the fast track process to ultimately introduce complete immunity to our emblems, putting their guaranteed status and quality at a very serious risk, thanks to which they prevailed in the markets around the world. But you have still not learned from the situation in which organic products are certified, which, apart from certain exceptions, private certification companies do not perform their role. Recently there have been examples and crises. Are we going to have crises again? To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the parliamentary amendment, with a general number of 43 and a special 1, tabled by Members of the SYRIZA, which concerns a very important problem for farmers. In 2014 and 2015 samples of dead ovine and caprine animals and bovine animals were taken as part of the programme for the monitoring of spongiform encephalopathy. You remember what the situation in the country was at that time, which was far from the current situation in the memorial era. The shortages in reagents in laboratories were dramatic, resulting in samples not being examined and damaged. They were destroyed in December 2016. Since we have sought and failed to find a solution for the farmers and since, I think, our responsibility is to lift the consequences of the memoranda as far as possible, we propose this legislation. I would ask the Minister, therefore, to understand the right of farmers to accept the amendment so that another injustice can be restored. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u436	We thank Mr Arachovitis very much and thank him for keeping time. Mrs Malama Sunday has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u437	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, entitled 'Invest in Greece and other provisions', is an example of wild neoliberalism of Latin American type. Through this bill, the whole of social and economic activity can be controlled by the very big players of the economy, without any security differences for either the State or the citizens or the workers. "I invest in Greece" means literally "I make Greece available for sale without any fee". "and other provisions" means "solve labour rights and social goods, so that those who deprive Greece and the Greek economy can do so, without having to account to anyone, without preventing them from getting some kind of social protection, without computing any control". So this multi-project Memorandum of Crisis and Inspiration is the joy of the neoliberals of the New Democracy, who are now in ministerial seats and are disturbed by state structures, labour union and civilization. They promise massive privatizations, they see antiquities as weight, they perceive environmental protection as ideology. Alongside the propaganda of attracting large investment and rapid permits, the provisions of the bill introduce a specific working framework of low wages, through operational contracts, while workers' trade union rights are being reduced. In other words, speculative investments, such as those of Halkidiki's gold, will be able to directly reduce the wages of workers, while they will not be able to react practically, as the declaration of strike becomes impossible, as will refer to arbitration. At the same time, with the environmental provisions of the bill, the same parasitic companies can be licensed for environmental monsoons within a minimum period of time, with the signature of a Minister, without any possibility of reacting from the environmental audit services. This means that every minister who is ideally or prone to the pressures of the goldhouses of development will be able to do them favors without accountable to anyone. The government's intentions in this matter have already been reflected in its study to facilitate "ELDORADO GOLD" in Halkidiki and to promise it the tradition of Thrace. They also appeared from the architectural extinctions that allowed the investor of the Greek to design. They appeared from the indiscipline to "buldozzi" the ancients of Venizelos, Thessaloniki. The citizens and workers should therefore be aware that by means of such facilities for multinational speculation, new jobs will not be created and the real economy will not be strengthened. With its option of promoting anti-development investments, the Government in fact promises low wages for private workers, it promises a disaster of small and medium-sized enterprises, and promises to be hit by ELDORADO's toxic air tourism, and promises cement, casinos and employers terrorism. At the same time, however, with all this vulnerability to the real economy, to work and to the environment, the New Democracy Government is unfolding and its revulsion to social goods, such as education. The provisions of this draft law introduce from the window the professional equivalence of public universities' diplomas with those awarded by private colleges, which operate on tuition fees and without any quality control of their studies. They triumph with these settings, the collegegirls. However, those families and children who fought hard to enter the professional track as engineers, lawyers, scientists in general, through the public university today see their troubles going lost. On the contrary, those who have every reason to rejoice are college owners, who operate on speculation, obviously, and not on academic criteria. And while these happen, in too many schools, two months after the start of the school year, there are no teachers in basic specialities. In the General High School of Sykia Halkidiki the gaps remain huge, substitute teachers have not been placed and the children have not yet begun to learn basic courses. Similar to Agios Nikolaos of Halkidiki, where two months of the third grade is not taught mathematically. Otherwise, this government would bring excellence to education. In fact, what it brings is indifference to public education and development exclusively for the private interests of education. I would like to close my speech with a reference to the current pursuits of the "ELLENIKIKI CHRYS". The company is asking to destroy the archaeological site of Skouria and in its place to create an open gold mining mineral. We hope that the headship of the Ministry will not assume heavy responsibility, to allow the destruction of an archaeological site to facilitate these projects. We want to maintain the archaeological site and, at the same time, to deepen the archaeological research throughout the area, committed by ELDORADO to Skouria and to the whole north-east of Halkidiki. The emergence of archaeological wealth is one of the real growth factors of Halkidiki and we must not destroy it for the sake of mining gold. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u438	Thank you to Mrs Malama and to keep time. Mr. Mulkiotis Georgios has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u439	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are discussing the multi-advertised development bill in plenary. A lot of expectations have been cultivated. But I wonder what the result is. Full disappointment. In a few words, “the mountain has poured out, and it has poured it out.” Because, instead of the big development bill, today is said to be the first step. The government was in charge of preparedness and this, of course, was in the context of a communication storm. Really, Minister, what are we talking about? It is a bill entitled "I invest in Greece and other provisions". Two-thirds of the bill are other provisions and one-third concerns investment. Question: Is that a good law? Do we dare go to the Greek people and say that this is a good piece of legislation, according to the final state, which was the first bill that we voted here in the House and which the government said we were so ready to bring in the provisions for a state of government? And have we come to legislate with other provisions? It's a monument of poor legacy, with a bunch of amendments. I would like to stress at the outset that, as soon as the provisions of the bill have been developed, there are many discounts - and that is done, of course, for investors to see this - there are reductions and regulations concerning reductions in the environment, reductions in applications for authorisation, reductions in the so-called bureaucracy. And after these provisions, what is there? There's work. So we make an attractive environment to investors "Come on, come on, we've settled everything" and then we take the provisions for work. You realise how the government, ladies and gentlemen, is dealing with the labour issues and, of course, with the abolition of the SEA and the abolition of the Special Secretariat for Environmental Inspectors. So the regulation on labour relations comes and the great joy of BSE comes, as we also know that, as the government says in its report, the government is legislating. I will say, ladies and gentlemen, that in addition to the poor legislation and beyond the final state that was structured in communication, but there are plenty of unrelated amendments, there are many arrangements. I challenged the committee in discussing articles by the Minister of State and the Vice-President of Government in the sense that one person is a professor of law and the other lawmaker. I have therefore caused them to tell us about Article 184 of the Ministry of the Interior, which refers to photography, which is an indisputable regulation and shame for individuals who are involved in self-government. I challenged them to tell us who they're photographing with this amendment. Really, we're talking about a state, and we're talking, Mr. Ministers, about e-government, and you're coming to introduce for the first time, the decision-making of municipal and regional councils for the first time? You know very well that there is a teleconferencing conference in the regional councils and are organised situations. Legislation here and we're talking about investment, we're talking about electronic procedures and simplification of procedures, and you're coming and asking the Greek Parliament to vote on this vexed provision? What do you want? You want to get rid of people who have already been prosecuted? What do you want? You're asking for disciplinary action to be stopped? Can I tell you something? It may indeed be a matter, but when prosecuting is being persecuted, it does not surprise you, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, why has it been prosecuted? And really, what do you come and say now, after the committees? We have heard and regrettable, it is a disgrace to those who have an affair with the legal systems, that there is an urgent need for decision-making, following a decision by the chairman of the municipal council or the regional council. What are we talking about? The people of self-government? And are we serious about giving standards to the Greek people that we are establishing and legislating here in the Greek Parliament such things? I asked the Minister of State and the Deputy Prime Minister to take a position and tell us what happened. Unfortunately, so far they have not taken a position. There's an opportunity until tomorrow night that we're going to vote on, take a stand and say what's going on here. The Minister for the Interior is, of course, absent. It has shone in its absence with such a provision that brings to the "other provisions" of the bill. It is a great opportunity to save the dignity of some things, this provision to withdraw. It's a disgrace to self-government. Ladies and gentlemen, social development does not come with these measures and the instruments we are talking about today. I believe that the provisions are all but compatible with fair social development. At the time we expected you to bring the much-advertised process into a piece of legislation, the big development model, you brought a number of provisions bearing the signature of seventeen Ministers. You have brought together a number of arrangements and further arrangements, which do not create a new development strategy. The proposed draft law promotes the small picture of individual arrangements, without giving any attention to the big picture. The classic and short-sighted recipe of micropolitical is followed. It replicates the worst moments of previous governments and faces the citizens, who are experiencing the consequences of an unprecedented crisis, as children of a lower god. And while it is being completed a hundred days in the governance of the country, after the criticism of the opposition in the committees, you tell us that this bill is not the big development bill, but it is a small one and you will bring something else. And when is this big development bill really coming, so that we can see Greece head forth, as the government is getting? It recommends this bill in short real regression. The anti-corruption measures of the bill are introduced one year after the end of the economic adjustment programme and the formal - at least - exit of the country from the memoranda. And while society is still experiencing the consequences of implementing the tough measures of the previous period, instead of abolishing the remaining memorial measures, the arrangements of the bill are heading in the opposite direction: a complete dismantling of labour relations. And I am very sorry that no representative from the relevant Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is here. Full dismantling of industrial relations. Listen: First, they legalise individuals' associations as if they were a primary trade union. Where's that sounded? Secondly, local collective labour agreements prevail over operational contracts. Will you legislate, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, these inconveniences to the workers? Mr President, I ask for your tolerance for a minute. This does not save business, but it eliminates workers financially. If you don't make a decision and don't understand it, you don't go any further. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular the articles of the bill concerning collective bargaining are simply and cynically implementing the commitments made by Mr Mitsotakis to BSE. That is why Mr Mitsotakis, on the first opportunity, has been messing with the workers in recent years. Has he been dealing with another industry again? Only with the workers, to demolition them, to degrade them and speak ironically. It is a tragic case of Prime Minister speaking in this way about the workers of the country. You are giving a provision for unlimited authorisation to the Minister. Who's the Minister? The'san'. "Apan" is the Minister for Labour. It regulates everything. And if you really think of the negative view that you expressed as a majority on the anti-constitutionality of the provision in relation to the bleached authority of the Minister of Labour, you will see how many problems will arise. And when will the problems be? From tomorrow morning, because industrial relations are a living piece, which we find in front of, and if we don't understand how industrial relations work, we don't go any further at all. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the arbitration arrangements, I have to say that unilateral recourse to it is almost forbidden and impossible. In other words, there are prohibitions. So being able to refer to arbitration is impossible. So, what are we talking about? What arbitration are we talking about? Why is the referral mentioned in the bill you vote on tomorrow, and there will be no referral to arbitration?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u440	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u441	So for the guys, it is the bill under discussion, Mr President, and I shall end. Perhaps it preserves some islands of "working normality", such as some charitable, but fragmentary and questionable provisions on individual labour relations. Greece cannot, by this law, be transformed into a country of cheap and devalued labour. It is not possible to base our competitiveness on reduced wages and downgrading working conditions and collective arrangements. Instead of modern competitiveness, focusing on knowledge, quality, innovation and the response of new possibilities...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u442	Close, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u443	Minister, because you have something to do with the environment...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u444	You're done. There's no more time, excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u445	Mr. President, may I...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u446	Look, it's a hundred more to talk. Please, no more phrases. You're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u447	I'm ending up saying this: Business Parks. A park in Oinofyta is now being introduced. In the Oinofytas, there's the Holy River. Pollution continues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u448	You should have said it earlier, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Chapter of New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u449	It is clear with this regulation that nothing will happen in the near future for growth. You downgrade and motivate yourself as a majority of the country's development. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u450	That's not tolerant. Mrs. Head has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u451	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately the long and deep economic crisis that we have experienced and the turbulent manipulations of the previous government have made our country the poorest state of Western democracies in Europe. Low per capita income, high unemployment rates, limited jobs and an ageing population compose the present image of Greece. We realise that it is imperative that the country returns to high and sustainable growth. An investment explosion is therefore needed, which will create new jobs and enhance the economic lives of the citizens. Overtaxation, uncertainty and restrictions on access to finance on competitive terms have, to date, been a blocking factor in attracting international investment. The current legislation, however, introduces a flexible process and creates a fertile business environment by means of provisions that abolish the reasons for distrust towards Greece, by facilitating the attraction and implementation of investments. It is known that the overall net position of foreign investors in the country remains lower among the Member States of the European Union. So the purpose of the bill we are discussing today is exactly what his title says: 'I invest in Greece'. The measures adopted are not empty, but their impact on GDP, investment and employment is estimated to be strong. According to a study by the Bank of Greece, since the provisions of the bill apply to their fullness, the minimum impact on GDP will be five points in the next ten years. What does that mean? Increase the standard of living of citizens, with fewer taxes, better social benefits and more jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of representing the Ioannina and I know very well what it means not to go ahead with major projects, not to create new jobs, not to be able to set up and operate a new business. Really, how many times have we seen the signatures drop, but the plays stay in the carpet or start and never end? Two months before the elections on 7 July, Mr Tsipras said from Ioannina that he had been tired of launching projects that had been delayed in previous years. I wonder if this statement was ironic to the citizens or self-sarcasm for his government's inertia. The bill speeds up by entrusting private chartered auditors to evaluate and monitor the implementation of investment projects. They are currently pouring two and a half thousand files that had been subject to development law. I have to say that we have already received the feeling of relief from businessmen from Ioannina and Epirus, who will finally see their investments from the archives and be completed thanks to the new regulations introduced by the current bill, because the New Democracy respects its election commitments, simplifying the procedures for strengthening entrepreneurship and the development of the country. We do not live in meaningless political controversy. We have worked out and put in place an integrated development plan instantly to proceed with the projects that have literally culminated in all these years and to develop the private initiative in all areas of social and economic life. But it's not the Ioannina, it's not just the Continent. It is the whole country that so much needs development. This situation must be addressed not by fragmentary arrangements, but by overall, systematic and effective means, and this is precisely what this multi-legislative plan aims to do. It aims at curing weaknesses that were left out of the poor and fragmented legacy and operate deterrently to attract investment, to sum up many small reforms that change the business environment as a whole, to remove dozens of investment barriers specifically licensed, environmental, town-building, to support newly-born businesses. This will create many well-paid jobs, so the country will return to high and sustainable growth. In addition, I would like to focus on the reforms that are under way in labour and digital governance. Starting with work, we are attempting a reform of the labour market in the current data for the benefit of workers and firms, in favour of full employment, the legality of the labour market and the increase in income in the insurance funds. Amongst other things, we are increasing by 12% the cost of extra hours if the agreed hours of work are exceeded, with a view to strengthening full-time work and the prevention of employers from systematic recourse to abused types of part-time contracts. We amplify the framework for combating undeclared work in the direction of strengthening full employment. The new legislation ensures the world of precarious work. In a strict and effective way, the legislative framework against undeclared work is reinforced, a social scourge which is afflicting the workers, but which is also deprived of income from the State and the insurance funds. We are creating an electronic register of infringibility and undeclared work for the first time. In addition, strong economic incentives are given to the offenders if they are directly employed by the undeclared worker. These reintroduction measures to legality strengthen the position of undeclared workers, strengthen employment with full employment and insurance rights and create conditions of stable employment for employees, without jeopardising already declared jobs. The Government of New Democracy shall develop and implement strategies and policies with specific objectives in order to effectively combat infringement in the labour market. The reforms of the bill at the level of digital governance are also extremely important. The current draft law promotes structural changes in the organisational units of the Ministry of Digital Governance, with the aim of reducing the administrative burden and the direct and more effective service of citizens and businesses. Among other things, the licensing and control framework for the manufacture of land antennas is reformed. The National Simplification Programme for the reduction of bureaucracy is set up. A Writing Observatory is also recommended for the duplication of administrative burdens arising from management’s legislation and regulatory acts. It is intended to establish a Single Digital Portal for Public Administration to help provide access to information, procedures and assistance and problem-solving services. The citizen and business interact quickly, easily and efficiently with the state, overcoming the chronic strains of bureaucracy. The daily transactions of citizens and businesses are facilitated, regardless of their place of residence, by having access to a wide range of online procedures without requiring the physical presence. Greece is transformed administratively and digitally into a modern Western state with respect for its citizens. All of this, together with all the arrangements proposed for the redefining of the framework for economic activity, the creation of a Single Digital Charter, the National Infrastructure Register, create the conditions for attracting and implementing investments, as well as for modernising administrative procedures, the overall recovery of the national economy and thus the prosperity and progress of the entire Greek society. That is why we are all called upon not only to vote in favour of the bill, but also to contribute to all levels of its rapid, uninterrupted and comprehensive implementation. The state is changing, Greece is changing. We're preparing for a new course, free of ideologies and strangles of the past. We want a state of effective, modern, citizen-friendly and business-friendly, and the New Democracy Government proves in every bill that it is ready to lead the country to a new era, era of growth, prosperity, innovation, always in the public interest and respect for man and the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u452	Mr Constantine Blouchos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u453	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the stake in the debate on this draft law is our socio-economic recovery and much-conscious development, confronting the implosions of the senseless fragmentation and division of our state formation. In a metropolitan of unemployment like Drama, from where I come from, words and concepts, such as investment, growth, environment, entrepreneurship, business parks, are in a state of absolute agnosia, a lack of our share in their significant, absolute self-defence, and often cause arousal in a world that is mostly passively or rather ludicrously in their permanent negative understanding, but rather here, as I have seen today. This is also proof of the failure of previous efforts and of the consolidation of macro-economic issues and of investment. It is a given that no development law in itself can change our financial morbidity. This supports our investment effort not in the context of a sterile economy, but by treating the evaporation structure of bureaucracy with a series of vertical reforms, which clearly stimulates the left reflexes of some and makes them unwilling, but clearly succeeds in tracing our investment activity. It is also a given fact that the environment, as it has been shaped in the recent past, has failed to attract investment interest and has perhaps not really had such a target. And how can such things exist when they are visible and the ideological obsessions, but, above all, your genetic specifications? Today, targeting is clear. In this debate, an attractive environment is emerging and encrypted through a storm of structural change of central importance for the economy of time and actions, a mere historical illustration of the failure of the targets of the past period, as a result of the tax burden and your deinvesting internal demon. In northern Greece, we witnessed a violent deindustrialisation. Of the three hundred and twenty registered anonymous companies and limited companies in the wider Kilkis region, once the eighty-nine companies are active, while 70% exist only on paper. Respectively, in Thessaloniki the two in the three processing companies S.A. And E.P.A., they're ghost companies. At regional level, negative champion in deindustrialisation is the region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, which has losses in the average size of processing company of 35%. All inactive enterprises within the BIP are 55%. Even within this steadfast and dark economic landscape, Drama, my city, had the second smaller decline, showing a remarkable stamina. There is a reasonable need to improve and strengthen the environment in which these businesses can remain and develop. And this proposal is in the right direction, simplifying procedures which have for years made investment difficult. Investment is not only a new business. It is mainly investment that can be made by existing companies, providing new jobs and keeping the citizen at home. Let us not forget that the region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace has an uneven competition from neighbour Bulgaria. We must support the development where it is still resisting, thanks to the innovation, inventivity and hardship of the Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, the economy is being cancerd when it is being imposed or obeyed in ideological strangles relating to dead models. The only thing that can be achieved in this way, with this dreadful trampling, is to broaden disarmament with the international environment, deepen the tide, to reduce our productive activity critically. The deadliest of previous rulership, even the most willingly blind, can grope them. After five years of populist acronyms and fatal incoherence, the government is responsible for the most recent critical choices. With complete awareness of the irreversible curve, Cesarean areas are being attempted in the development of our economic and social system. A section of counterpopulation found it inferior to circumstances and announcements. He described it as a "geographical periphery", "curly", "sparkly". This bill, however, is probably a product of humiliation of creativity and is emphatically another governmental logic, that of rationalism and political orthodoxism. Some political forces or bodies are opposed to zeroing or even horrific and scepticism in the treatment that is being attempted by part of the teratogenicity of our bureaucratic hydrocephaly. We recognise, however, the incentives that we must give, organise programmes and create the conditions for sustainable, now economic and development orientation. The evidence doesn't lie. The numbers prove it eloquent. You can't expect growth by targeting and demonizing investors. In a discreet and high-tech any approach to the present, it would be worth mentioning that it is diffuse the view that a share of the responsibility of our social and political hardship has also been shown by unionism. Before the bill was even discussed, praetorians of economic abscess announced mobilizations to mark their opposition to the government's anti-government policy. The results are common and are known. A minority literally tortures the labour poverty, the housewife, the backbone, the man next door. It is a syndication based on the logic of extortionist demand and separatist armour, which is indifferent to the social event, losing all hope of quality trade diversification. It is therefore time for a revolution in common sense against anthropology and irrationalism, to resist the sacrificing of the right and its fraudulent work. Trade union means a conversation. It doesn't mean revolutionary gymnastics. We can no longer demand a dialogue on unnegotiable requests. It's absolute zero. In conclusion, we urge you to vote on this, demanding the reintroduction of common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u454	Thank you, Mr Blucho, for keeping time. Mr Lazaros Tsavdaridis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u455	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the multi-project we are discussing today is the lyric on which the whole future development path of a country that has for years been feeding on ideals that have given rise to entrepreneurship, plunged private initiative, strangled investment incentives, sedated competitiveness. The explanatory statement from the Bank of Greece, moreover, which states that investment in Greece has collapsed over the last decade with just 20 billion investments in 2018, compared to 60 billion investments in 2007, is not surprising for anyone who knows the market. Nor, of course, is it surprising that the now Dedicated Opposition, which based as a government its entire failed economic policy on overtaxation and the deposition of state-owned logic, is now coming to blame the Government of New Democracy for "bay growth". Who? A government of SYRIZA, the only fresh that offered Greek society for four and a half years, was daily wholesome ways to baptize absolute inertia as action. What does Opposition Response to? It reacts to a draft law that removes dozens of investment barriers, especially in licensing, environmental, urban and labour issues, with the keys to good international practices. It reacts to a draft law that finally clears the country from the nipple of bad and fragmentary legacy, leftovers of old times, which acted as an anti-investment scarecrow. It reacts to a draft law which, with a weapon of many small reforms, improves the business environment, protects the world of precarious work and supports the healthy, transparent and representative representation of the social partners. Let him react. Let the past stay with the past. The new government was elected to put a definitive end to the investment precipitation in recent years, costing thousands of jobs and thousands of development opportunities for our country and its people. And it will not do so if it is blinded to the unpleasant reality, with the country's unemployment at the highest rate in the European Union at 17.2%, with the country being in the latter's position to the degree of convenience in business, with the country being in the last position regarding trade outside borders. In the face of these data, there are no wishful, but innovative policies. A first innovation policy is the modernisation and simplification of the business start-up scheme in business parks, which will help reduce unemployment and serve as the basis for opportunities for development in local communities. A second innovation is the creation of a Single Digital Charter, which will enable anyone to see each economic activity in dt time, with information from terms and restrictions on the construction and use of land to orbit lines, forest areas and archaeological sites. A third innovation policy is the delegation of private auditors or audit firms to assess and monitor the implementation of investment projects in order to speed up the certification process and free valuable financial resources. A fourth innovation is strengthening the domestic business environment and opening up new markets for Greek products through the Hellenic Investment and External Trade Company. A company that will undertake the support of small and medium-sized enterprises in terms of exports, the origin of investments, the networking and promotion of Greek entrepreneurship in international markets, thus improving the economic climate in the country and contributing to a fertile long-term export-oriented commercial policy in the years of the wounds from the Russian embargo and, above all, the risk of undermining our Macedonian products from the neighboring country at our northern border. At the same time, however, the new government is taking a step further, knowing well that entrepreneurship is not only about the businessman but also about the worker. A worker to whom the left arch refers theoretically, but forgets practically, endangering his right to work through his anachronistic policies, by blocking and stigmatizing investments, blinding his real problems, patronising his opinion for the benefit of trade unions. The new government is not going to leave the worker unprotected in the era of growth. This is why it puts a number of obstacles to the prevention of undeclared work in this multi-legislative draft because it seeks to further strengthen full-time work through the prevention of employers from the systematic recourse to abuse of part-time contracts and to provide for the establishment of a register of trade union organizations and employers' organisations and voluntary electronic voting in the event of strikes. Ladies and gentlemen, 'I invest in Greece', so it does not only mean investment in economic terms. "I invest in Greece" means mainly investing in human resources, investing in social peace, investing in collective balance. It means investing in strengthening the country's international prestige, improving the quality of life of the Greeks, investing in the new generations, in the future of our country. We in the New Democracy firmly believe that the country can change and become the development surprise of the next few years in the European Union and we are determined to achieve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u456	Thank you to Mr Tsavdaridis and to keep time. Mr. SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u457	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, listening to the Members of the Co-Population and to the Ministers of State, a climate of special enthusiasm and euphoria is being cultivated, in fact, that this is an investment and development explosion, from which all those living in that country will really benefit. In particular, Mr Adonis Georgiadis, in a particularly glaring way, is at risk of being believed, indeed. He asked before Mr Papa and I would like to ask him why, Mrs Kasimatis, Mr Meikopoulou, Mr Papa, Mr Avramakis, you say 'no' to abolish the obligation 'from here' by the Canadians? What are you going to tell your voters? Why do you say 'no', ladies and gentlemen, to subsidize lignite extraction? Why do you say 'no' to the grant of broadcasting programmes? I'd like to present you with an experience. Today I came from Larissa. There are too many investors, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs interested in these projects, lignite mining, broadcasting and broadcasting. There are too many small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and in your regions. At the same time, along with this climate of special enthusiasm and euphoria, there is also a climate, an impression, that the SYRIZA government was hostile to investment and entrepreneurs. And, indeed, it is in danger of being believed as well. For you said ‘no’, but you in the 2016 Act, which had the following heading: ‘Institutional framework for the establishment of private investment aid schemes for the regional and economic development of the country. Establishment of a Development Council.’ And what was that purpose of this law voted for by the government, this uninvesting government? The aim was to promote balanced development, with respect for environmental resources and support for less favoured regions, to increase employment, to improve cooperation and to increase the average size of enterprises. What were the eligible costs? Because all those watching us ask: 'I, as a small-sized businessman, how am I going to benefit from this infamous, super-development bill? How am I supposed to be? I have a small and medium-sized enterprise." Can you give an answer? A small-scale businessman how will he benefit from this bill? The law of the SYRIZA Government - and I remind you that this law requires too many entrepreneurs - the eligible costs involved building facilities, equipment, job subsidisation, what a small and medium-sized enterprise wants. What does a small and medium-sized enterprise want today? To invest in work again, to invest in the workers, the building facilities, the equipment. Such investments are secured by the bill you're asking us to vote on? Answer me. Are such investments covered? Oh, no. For ‘wherever you have’, the explanatory statement states for legal certainty that it is exempted from ‘wherever you have been’. You're coming too far back, too far behind the Venizelos law. With regard to labour, ladies and gentlemen, the bill is officially created and the wage compression institution is institutionalised. A businessman may be excluded from the collective agreement. You say that is European practice. I can inform you that in half the European countries, there is a need for the collective agreement and for the other half only with the agreement of the workers' organizations. There is no point in what you are going to do, namely that by the Minister's decision it will be possible to exclude businessmen. And I shall end, Mr President, with an incredible irrationality which has happened during the objection of unconstitutionalism. He said Mr. Georgiadis "vote it, it is constitutional". In case of doubt, the judges say, where are we going? In the explanatory statement. You say that the unilateral referral to arbitration is limited. Who usually appeal to arbitration? The workers. You say that it is not abolished and yet repealed. For the first time - and this is unacceptable, it is undemocratic - the decision of a minority of the Council of State. In this respect, it needs to be noted that the minority considered that the abolished system of compulsory arbitration undermined collective bargaining by its nature. In other words, you do not respect the majority principle either. More importantly, it is not just indirect, but direct interference in justice. Actually, what are you talking about here? That, when the Council of State decides in a few months with a possible request for cancellation, the minority will become a majority. Formal institutional intervention in justice. You celebrate the view of the S.H.E.'s minority. and, in essence, you indicate that minority will become a majority, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u458	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u459	I'm done, Mr. President. I think they do well and don't vote for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u460	Mr. Micopoulos Alexander from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u461	Thank you very much, Mr President. I was very surprised: Mr Georgiadis and the committee, but also today in plenary, asking for no more than the floor to answer colleagues from SYRIZA, as our rapporteur has defended, I would say, in fact, the whole bill 'Investing in Greece'. Just now, in the perimeter of the House, he made some statements, trying to reconstruct his speech on Swiss state television, saying, in essence, that some politicians are actually funded by the NOVARTIS scandal and named Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Polakis as the finance politicians. Two are the mistakes for the otherwise experienced politician and Minister of State, Mr Georgiadis. The first is that, while defending the bill, it completely disorientates the conversation and throws the ball at the platform. I wonder why. The second is that, ladies and gentlemen, it would not be possible for Mr Tsipras and Mr Polakis to present a greater gift with this statement. And remember me. You'll see what happens in the next few days. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] The next thing that gave me a great impression is the title of the bill, "I invest in Greece". A simple regression, ladies and gentlemen, will be noted in the articles and provisions of the bill: a complete mismatch of title and content. And with these remarks I would like to share with you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, some questions I have. The first question is how to increase growth rates by photographic devices, on the one hand, and by complete deregulation of industrial relations on the other. Some will do whatever they invest, and the workers will do what they get paid for. Another question, which I have often had for all the speeches I have heard today by Members and Members of the New Democracy, is how to relax working relations is dealt with as a precondition and a necessary treaty for growth to come? Here, ladies and gentlemen, there is this oxymologue: In the years 2012-2015 we followed the course of the PASOK and New Democracy coexistence. The very same working arrangements, some of my fellow Members from the heart, pointed out that they were brought in because of the crisis and in the name of the crisis, 'we had to bring some sort of working arrangements to pass on the evaluations' and all of this. The very same provisions today you are bringing them into the name of development. That's terribly acidic. And I cannot forget Mr Mitsotakis' election commitment at all. I remember going to factories, to workers and said: "I will increase the minimum wage to twice the GDP growth." Well, let him go to this now in the hundreds of thousands of employees in hotels, who, while seeing their salaries grow by the sectoral conventions that SYRIZA has brought back, will see the salary go to 600 euros again. I can't figure out exactly how this growth will take place. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that you are seeking to re-energise the mechanism of producing collective regulations, with real surgical interventions in the structure of collective agreements. And it is no coincidence that these arrangements are proposed just by the government itself, during which the legislation that was put into effect by a Ministerial Council act in 2012 has radically deferred the system of collective bargaining. You are well aware, ladies and gentlemen, that Greece's GDP is based on a large part of internal consumption. Do you know, then, what we managed by reducing purchasing power in most of the population, with so-called wage cuts and pension cuts in 2012-2015? We managed to break down all domestic businesses. It is precisely this negative experience that I think there has been no lesson from the current government. But let us look at the specific provisions in particular. So you say that it is envisaged that social competitors should be able to introduce differentiation clauses with sectoral or homogeneous collective labour agreements and to exclude from their scope companies which are in serious financial difficulties. Yes, sir. There were some colleagues from New Democracy who, in my opinion, made a brave attempt to bring examples of the fact that the same thing also applies to advanced countries in the European Union. Yes, it is. But let us take the example of Germany, the most advanced country. Is there the option of the opt out clause? There is. But how is it used? It's used in two ways. The first is that there must be full agreement between the social partners, and the second is when it is faced with any serious economic problems which lead to justified and substantiated redundancies. How does it apply to this bill? It goes too far, in my view, broadly. It concerns enterprises which are all conceived with economic problems under the unclear term'serious', and this may, in fact, relate to any term of work regulated by a collective labour agreement. And, of course, there is no time-limit for divergence. Do you know what that means? It means that you have created a Trojan horse in order to completely dismantle the system of collective bargaining. Included are therefore all cases of firms with financial problems. So, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to fall within the scope of the law for companies which can also present simple cash difficulties or simply accounting problems. They will therefore be able to invoke these and be excluded from the scope of the collective bargaining that would otherwise bind them. So, ladies and gentlemen, what is the idea? Idealness is the idea that working conditions, i.e. labour rights, wages are an area of business competition. For this very reason, the labour provisions you bring are a wage squeeze mechanism. I remember a government official - I cannot remember who exactly, but this was said in the public sphere - who said that the skyscraper to be built, in any case, in the Greek will be the new Parthenon. What I see, ladies and gentlemen, from this bill, is that the only thing you've been trying to copy since that time is the ilogues of Sparta. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u462	We would like to thank Mr Meikopoulou and thank him for keeping time. Mr Boutsikakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u463	Thank you, Mr President. We all know well in this Chamber that for many years a large number of investments have been left only on paper. Because to date development laws have been working as a tool for development. They captured investors in endless processes, with excessive delays and uncertain endings. So an investment could not be licensed, it could not function, it could not work, and the investors either did not come at all, but, sooner or later, they left because they could not withstand bureaucracy and all the malfunctions of the public administration or the market. This situation is not only about investments of strategic importance, it is about all small, medium-sized and large business activities. This has the effect of depriving the economy of valuable resources and society of new jobs that is so indebted. As a member of the First Region of Piraeus and the Islands I know how many projects have been stuck in our region and how many have not even begun. For two centuries, the thermal baths in Methana attracted thousands of tourists and visitors. Today, because of the indifference of the previous government and after a bit of a process, they cannot function, which in itself is a huge blow to tourism in the region. The islands of Argentina cannot obtain the necessary marinas that would allow the development of yochting, job creation, the attraction of wealthy tourists and many benefits for the economy of the islands and their further development. In Kythira, the expansion of the airport has not yet been carried out, a project that could enable large aircraft to land on the island, making a significant contribution to the tourist development of the island. At least, thanks to our Government's initiatives and to its new investment 'COSCO', Piraeus is expected to become the largest trading port in the Mediterranean in the next two years. In the case of Piraeus, emphasis should be placed on tourist development, so that the rapid development of the port can combine and bring about similar growth throughout the city. Investment in tourism is inextricably linked to growth. By infrastructure projects, Piraeus can and must become a destination instead of a simple pass for tourists, as they are today. And we can achieve this by expanding the base of the PPA cruise with the construction of large hotels, building modern shopping centers, creating recreational, green and sporting spaces. But the key to all this, the key to the development of the city and the whole country, is attracting investment. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft "Invest in Greece", which we are debating today, is called "development" precisely because it aims at growth. The development of the country, the overall recovery of the economy and the final exit from the crisis are at the heart of our government policy. For investors to come, the country should provide assurances of reliability, guarantee of smoothness, stability, speed and efficiency of procedures, and guarantee of good functioning of the market. In order for investors to come, there is not enough general call, such as what the previous government used to do, without any serious preparation, to do, there is not enough patches in the legislation, which solve one problem, to create another and leave the rest unresolved. In order for investors to come, there is not enough to have one, but there must be no problem that would put their investment at risk. That is why we do not insist on fragmentary regulations, but on global reforms in all areas of public administration, justice, labour, infrastructure and the market. With today's bill we improve the investment environment, we facilitate entrepreneurship, with many benefits for the economy and employment, we form a fertile and friendly climate, leaving behind the obstacles of the past. We are putting an end to end to endogenous factors, such as the conviction of corruption, limited research and innovation, delays in the administration of justice. We are dealing with all those pathogens that are an obstacle to attracting investment. This is how we will achieve the growth leap needed by the Greek economy. That is why the business world of the country - and not only - welcomes all the axes of the bill, since it has been put into public consultation. In particular, with this draft law we are promoting an integrated national redesign and simplification programme. We facilitate business installation in modern business parks. We illustrate business activity in a new Digital Charter. We establish a National Infrastructure Register by defining the hosting investment areas. We simplify public procurement and speed up the licensing and operation of new businesses. We are motivating the development of the building industry, facilitating private investment in public property. We are taking steps to combat the undeclared and undeclared work, but also to create many new and well-paid jobs. And with all this and so many more that it introduces this bill we are drastically reducing time and money, both for businesses and for the state itself. Ladies and gentlemen, we want the state to be backed up by entrepreneurs and businesses and not bureaucraticly toward them, in order for the economy to develop, to benefit society and to advance the country. We want it and we will do it, because we have and we will have the Greek society, the workers, the entrepreneurs. Because we have and will have all those who believe in a modern, productive, creative Greece. We will try it and, despite the difficulties, we will succeed. Because, as you know, there is nothing impossible for the man who will try. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u464	We thank Mr Boutsikaki and thank him for keeping time. Now Mrs Kefaliannis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u465	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that this draft law expresses the most dominant political project of this government. Growth has been and is the most serious thing to do in an economy that wants to produce wealth for citizens. In particular, in a liberal economy, development policies, flexibility and extroversion are the prerequisites for economic progress, adapted to modern social needs and to new international challenges for a competitive economy, creating the conditions for fiscal space for a stronger social policy. After all, the aim is one: social well-being. And that, of course, is not a one-sided issue. The creation of conditions for growth and prosperity reflects all the key functions of the state, the economy, the society itself. And today's bill is indeed a multi-dimensional but single initiative, which runs a wide range of these functions, in order to overcome ideas, obstacles and distortions from the past, from a past that has definitely failed in the consciousness of the citizens not only at the level of the economy, but also at the level of values and institutions. It goes without saying that any measure facilitating and strengthening the investment and business activity of an economy has a direct positive social impact. So this is also the fact that the government's political perception of where the effective functioning of a free economy should be aimed. Ladies and gentlemen, the attraction of new investment funds within a modernised regulatory framework creates above all the conditions for transition to a fair and stable economy, with the state standing next to the investor, next to the citizen, and especially to the productive Greek citizen, especially today, where in our country workers are numerically lacking against pensioners. Every legislative initiative, therefore, must also be assessed as a tool for the drastic reduction of this negative balance and at the same time as a tool for the recovery of the apparent leak of scientists abroad, because the budgetary crisis inherited us another huge problem: Greece is ageing and at the same time losing valuable human resources, mainly because of its lack of merit and then uncertainty and low earnings. This bleeding of skilled workers should be stopped immediately, as the current problem of anaemic growth rates adds the lack of innovation and investment, since the required knowledge and know-how cannot be applied. So our country is investing in human capital, which is then fleeing in the absence of opportunities. So we need an integrated investment policy, an investment transformation, with public-private partnerships that will strengthen newly entrepreneurial activities, develop digital infrastructures and attract investment and new capital, which can finance actions and projects for scientists wishing to return home, thus linking science and know-how to the labour market. The new development law is certain to contribute in this direction, as it provides incentives to attract strategic investments of EUR 15 million and upwards, promotes investments in wireless networks of a new generation, provides for digitisation of data related to investment or construction activity, speeds up the procedures for assessing and monitoring the implementation of investment projects, thousands of which are currently portraying, while the State continues to exercise its control role, but operating in a simpler and more flexible framework of authorisation and economic activity. At the same time, there are differences in the protection of workers from implied work and transparent, more representative procedures in the exercise of trade union rights. And, of course, given that faster and more effective justice is a basic condition for development, modern digital solutions are being promoted in administrative justice. Ladies and gentlemen, this is of course not the first development law. And the previous government has attempted it on paper, because it has never come. In the criticism of today's opposition, therefore, the answer is that Greek citizens have asked by their recent vote for radical reforms to be implemented, for years of pathogens and strangles that have reached us here, to abandon the logic of overtaxation, which triggers the vicious cycle of recession and introversion. This is the only way to combine an inclusive society, equal opportunities in employment, remuneration, insurance, health. The government therefore proceeds without delay in the implementation of its programme, because it was elected for a prosperous and solidarity-free society, free of bankrupt models of the past, in which growth and entrepreneurship will go hand in hand with social welfare and the protection of citizens' rights, so that we can finally motivate the great human capital of the country to remain at home, encourage those who left the country in the years of the crisis to believe that our country is a place of progress, prosperity and security again. That is why we are voting in favour of this bill: 'I invest in Greece'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u466	One surprise, after the other surprise over time. Now Mrs Scouffa Elisabeth has the floor, since we thank Mrs Kefaloyannis for keeping time. We also hope that the next speaker will be left within seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u467	I'll start by commenting on the title of the bill. So if we didn't have the text of the seven hundred and eighty pages in front of us and we did a golf on the market and we asked our fellow citizens, our fellow people, what do you understand, what you see under the heading: "I invest in Greece", 80% would answer us that it is a advertising forehead and very cheap and poor quality and does not fit as a title in a bill of the Greek Parliament. It reminds us of advertising campaigns that we see on the German subway with some vegetarian elements 'Invest in Greece', 'Welcome in Greece' and all that. With this bill, in fact, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, you are basically demolished and presenting the most unfortunate picture of our country, as if investors would not want or want to come and invest here. Because, as a country, we have comparative advantages. For example, we have a great geopolitical position, we have very rich subsoil, we have very well trained scientific and labour. The draft law, however, comes and literally implements the pre-election commitment of the Head of New Democracy and now Prime Minister, when he said, on the grounds that we will scan the obstacles that keep entrepreneurial. Our huge difference, however, between SYRIZA and the New Democracy is that you are the ones who view the country's comparative advantages. You consider employment rights to be an obstacle. You consider respect for the environment to be hampered. You consider an obstacle not to the "differentiation" of our archaeological cultural heritage but to its emergence. You consider preventive control, nuisance rates, public control mechanisms to be an obstacle. All of this is willing - and you do it with this bill - to sacrifice them on the altar of profit and supposed growth. All these years the anarchy, for example, construction of the great cities of Athens and Thessaloniki - I stress, the anarchy - the unprojected construction of Athens and Thessaloniki in the 1960s and 1970s did not give you any thought? Do you want to turn again in 2019, turning us 50 years back, the country into an endless field, with a cheap call of "patch dogs" and instead of "investing in Greece" to have "worming in Greece"? We do not see, as the committee has said, any support for small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, no support for companies with a knowledge-based intensity, no support for the agri-food sector, no support for the fourth industrial revolution. So, you want me to invest, again, with vegetarian columns and throw away the environment and the working rights in the bucket of unusable people? What logic also dictates, in the first article of the bill, all the PPPs, public-private partnerships and public-private partnerships to be self-evident in the status of strategic investment? So, when the municipalities through PPP give private individuals their garbage, which we have an article, and that is why it is an investment business that must, in fact, be financed through the development law and with money from Greek taxpayers? You have no overall planning on development, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. The only thing that makes this bill is that you must obey orders and instructions from your electoral client. It's just as I say it, of your electoral client. In what sense, for example, is courier, delivery, investment projects? What do they offer? They offer new technology products? Are they offering knowledge-intensive services? Or do broadcasts of corts' coming out with bracelets and rich dresses have a development perspective and are therefore entitled to enter a development law? The bill, however, for the Greek people to hear it again, clashes down basic principles of labour law, such as the extension of sectoral collective agreements and the principle of more favourable regulation. In fact, you are allegedly exempting certain undertakings, which can be decided what they will be and by Minister's decision now. So I'm going, because I'm stuck with Adonni Georgiades, and I'm saying, "Hey, I don't have the objective economic criteria to prove that my business is going for bankruptcy. It must be made easier, otherwise the jobs of workers will be lost.' Because this argument tells us that if we do not exclude these businesses, if we do not support them in giving hunger wages, then the jobs of the workers will be lost. I too wish to say: get out and ask the workers whether they really prefer to work on hunger wages or whether they really want worthwhile and decent paid jobs. You want to generalise the status of the unregulated labour market. You want to generalize hunger wages. You want to turn Greece into a special economic area, precisely to facilitate only big capital, large investment and, otherwise, tossing workers ballast and without any negotiating capacity. You are telling us that the business exemption applies to Europe. It's a lie. In half of Europe, the status as brought about by SYRIZA, that is to say, collective labour agreements have universal force and application in the other countries where the opt out applies, these exceptions are agreed between employers and trade unions. What else can I talk about? The special spatial plans? This - for my fellow citizens to understand - means that in the Barics, which has an enormous rural area, characterised as a rural vast area, the alpha investor comes and tells the Minister "in this vast rural area I want to set up a store, a garden". Chuck, the decision comes at once.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u468	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u469	You agree, Mr. Baraliaco. Besides, there have been such cases.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u470	My colleague, how much longer do you need? You've reached eight and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u471	I'm done. Thank you very much, Mr President. I have left lastly something very important, which concerns tens of thousands of workers. You are ready and in a specific article of the bill - and without sufficient justification for the emergency - you are giving basic, neural sectors of compensation services, such as cleanliness in the municipalities, the maintenance of green spaces and electricity. You are all willing to give them to private individuals. Finally go out to the cafes and the market and listen to the needs of society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u472	Thank you, too. In order to respect the other colleagues, the meeting will run until 1.30' in order to complete the list. Please be in time very much. Mrs. Tyloridou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u473	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear from the beginning that it is not his primary aim to read this bill. He serves most of a neoliberal idealism. Although he does that, he does it without there being a coherent plan. It's a bill consisting of stitching mixed proposals, without beginning, middle and end. "I invest in Greece", therefore, by means of fragmentary provisions. I build with bricks and horns sprinkled. I invest wherever I want and where I want. I invest without rules. For example, it prioritises PPP authorisations to improve the provision of public services and considers that the transfer of public services into the hands of private individuals favours the development of the country's infrastructure and the economy in general. In fact, once the PPP investment is classified as a strategy - on what criteria, is it? - the Minister is given the opportunity to decide on tax and other incentives. Thus, in this bill, the transfer of public services to private individuals is done. We start with local government agencies, cleanliness, green, electric. We do not care about the subsequent increase in municipal charges, we do not care about workers' redundancies, we do not care about the deterioration of these services. We are beginning with the OTAs to continue rather in health and education, as plans, for example, are already being heard about private entry into the public health system. It's a bill that returns us to the old distortions. 'Basic' - says - 'a prerequisite for development in the country is metropolitan placement'. And it continues: "The deindustrialisation of Athens has led to the migration of businesses into the province". The answer to this tragic, in the opinion of the neoliberal perception, is that we must go back rapidly to the Athenian model of 1950. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece is not just Athens. Where is support in this bill for less developed regions and their businesses? Where is the support of the Greek region? What's the target? To have metropolitan placement. The center of Greece is Athens, so the return of all businesses to Athens. Article 11. So what about the region? Let's go to the region I come from, the region of Western Macedonia. At the UN conference on climate change, the Prime Minister told us that by 2028 all lignite plants will be closed and, on the other hand, in the bill they were talking about subsidising the extraction of lignite that you withdrew. These are the samples of good legislature that come after very serious thought. What is your design for western Macedonia? Thousands of unemployed are at risk of adding to the highest unemployment rate the West Macedonia Region has in Europe. How are you going to make this transition? Are you going to make her violent? With what spatial planning? With what land uses? With which branches of added value? Where are the environmental criteria? Where's the land restoration? You know, Kastoria, Grevenas, Kosani and Florina also belong to the Greek territory. We have tabled an amendment to you for a new model of transition to the post-Ligninary era and a new production activity, which you did not accept. You obviously did not accept it because you obviously consider that the inhabitants of western Macedonia do not belong to your beloved elite. 'This bill' - says -'strikes red tape'. What does that mean? To hit bureaucracy, do I have to remove all the rules? Is L.4442/2016 amended to Article 3 and now what does it say? That any entity engaged in an economic activity can do so without restriction, without approval and without an opinion. We had a single framework for all economic activities, and this framework was in cooperation with the ministries and you come and you repeal it. What now means that the audit will be carried out by natural or legal persons? Will this be done by private bodies? Is the street opening or not the auditors and the audited ones collide? Does this lead to or does it not lead to opacity and bias? Who's gonna do the environmental check? Who will be responsible for the single digital map? Private companies are given the opportunity to keep, operate and update this map. Where will the data ownership belong? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I need a minute, Mr. President. What about employers' immunity? What about working backwards? What about the abolition of collective agreements? The bill on many things doesn't say anything. But in other things, he says. From this bill there may be many missing, but there is no lack of ruffles, such as the non-nominalisation of the shares of the media with what this may mean and with what risks it may have, the failure to deposit "substantially" by canalarchs, the recognition of colleges, the increase of persons working at the Secretary-General of the Prime Minister against two people. It's not four hundred eighty, but we need two more! And why don't you wait a while longer to bring this to another bill? You may have more ruffles coming along the way and you need to increase them again! Ladies and gentlemen, the safety of an investment depends on compliance with rules. The ambiguity and the existence of an uncontrollable framework are not safe. This bill is not an investment in Greece. This bill is about turning Greece back. I'm going back to the causes that led her to the economic crisis! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u474	Mr Aylonite has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u475	Thank you, Mr President. That's very well said by Betty Skuffa and Olympia Tyloridou. Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a volume of eight hundred pages - with two hundred thirteen articles - and accompanying reports on the heavyweight title 'Investing in Greece'. Especially for the title, one wonders who created it. I'm absolutely sure Adonis Georgiadis made him. He's talking straight and he's expressing me like he's selling a product. And that is not in any sense unreasonable when the government has made a lot of publicity about this bill. But not to speak in terms of compatibility, to see what we are dealing with today. So, first of all, we are dealing with the sloppyness and fragmentation of the proposed anti-development provisions, almost by Ministry, against - I would remind those who are even watching us on television - an overall investment plan for the sustainable development of SYRIZA days. Everyone will remember that it prioritised innovation, new technologies, the major infrastructures that made the country a hub of trade, transport and telecommunications a priority. And I'm explaining. The bill has no strategic, development objectives, no measures in favour of the extroversion of domestic production compatible with the rules on State aid of the European Union, in a military logic of bureaucratic management or association arrangements. And I don't do the smart guy. If someone had the opportunity to read the bill, it would have come to these safe conclusions. Above all you say, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, the word 'investment', but at the same time creating a suffocating environment for public officials and public services against so-called strategic investments - I remind you of the Desert of Corfu, because I come from Corfu - in fact threatening the control mechanisms, which are made up of civil servants. This is the big investment initiative! And that's all if they're late to do the job, take out the licenses, check everything out. The essential tradition of investor and business controls in private individuals is the lack of human resources, that is to say, human resources, which often leads to fewer or non-target controls. It is for this reason that auditors can also be a private person or legal person, in fact by concession or delegation. This is a pioneering institutional initiative! What we are saying, that is, we with the APR for the protection of labour rights too. Secondly, with the timely implementation of the most neoliberal thinking that you had on entrepreneurship, in particular on labour and workers, to bring about an end to the competitiveness of monopolies and oligopolises. This is how you hit the country's extroversion and the high added value, which increases the wages of workers. I'm asking, how? With the abolition - it has been said here many times - of collective bargaining and the introduction of anti-motors to the conclusion of sectoral collective labour agreements, which SYRIZA has brought back. We do not forget that you were preparing together with the troika and BSE in the past the complete marginalisation of the sectoral conventions. How? With local sectoral conventions which are lower than national ones, which thus establish special economic zones. How? With the right to unilateral referral to arbitration being drastically reduced, in other words to abolish a means of pressure from the trade unions to conclude collective agreements and to motivate employers' organisations not to come and be inconsistent, unequivocally contrary to the negotiations. By abolishing also the employer's obligation to recognise and pay for three months of service to undeclared workers and with several but. In practice, you tell businessmen to produce undeclared or alleged workers, since punishment will be nonexistent by a weakened person - not to say no - APR. On substance with the provisions on labour matters, the reintroduction of the outstandingities of the second memorandum, the incomplete memorandum, where the Government of Samaras inherited the SYRIZA, takes place. The SYRIZA government, ladies and gentlemen, gave the trade unions life at the same time, giving them back the scope for action they had lost with the memoranda. While reintroducing expansion, it also improved the wages and other working conditions of thousands of workers. Thirdly, with the dogmatic desire to perpetuate the interests of themselves and of themselves - the same interests - you are serving - by trading with your party, who have found the opportunity to raise a head when you grant, for example, basic OTA competences, such as cleaning and maintaining green and lighting, to private individuals in accordance with paragraph 1 of L.3979. I'll give you some examples and I'll finish. You heard, you heard what I collected from reading the bill. In Article 62, it reports about casinos. In the event of a delay in the payment of the wages due to the administrative, technical, chief or auxiliary staff over thirty days - if they are delayed, i.e. the 30-day casino employer - there was a temporary withdrawal of leave for two months. Here's what an institutional investment initiative you've been doing. You increased the time from thirty days to sixty days, giving casino owners the opportunity not to pay for another thirty days. Big investment initiative! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I see I can't make it. Ladies and gentlemen, I had more to say. This bill as a whole is another bad attempt to legislate in a critical area, such as growth and investment, which will lead the country backwards and not forwards, as the government claims. Unfortunately, the philosophy of this draft law stands at a distance from the overall dynamics of the Greek economy and their particular sectors, which have competitive and high potential and present the guarantees of new comparative advantages, which in turn can give the desired investment impetus. And I'm just finishing by joking that you don't expect the day after tomorrow, that the bill will be passed, investors will come with planes and vapours to invest in Greece. I say this with bitterness, because you have invested a lot in this bill, and that is why you called it that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u476	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that we are currently at number 47 and Mr Spankis will be speaking from New Democracy. But, you know, the delay of even a minute will go far behind the process. On the basis of our calculations, many colleagues will not be able to speak as long as time is misused.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u477	Can you tell us what time we're going today?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u478	We'll see you in a minute. Most likely you won't talk today, Mr. Avramakis. Mr. Spankee, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u479	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are today discussing the draft law entitled 'Investing in Greece'. It is a bill which, in my opinion, needs to be voted on by all the heads of Parliament. It is a bill that turns a page in yesterday and creates the real conditions for the uplifting and development of the Greek economy. The fact is that investment in Greece has collapsed in recent years, while foreign direct investment remains at one of the lowest levels among the countries of the European Union. This draft law provides for provisions that finally speed up the procedures for the completion of the investment. As a result, it will have a direct payment of investment, which will create a substantial climate between state and investors. It is good that Article 163 of this draft law extends until 31 December 2020 to complete the investment projects of both L.3299/2004 and L.3908/2011. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that there is a strong need to create a simple development law that expresses the new needs of the market and actually gives incentives. Stability in the business environment requires a new framework law for the development of the country. The law that came in the days of SYRIZA, L.4399/2016, is a complex law. It turns out to be complicated by the fact that we had two years of subjection since the relevant law was passed. There is also an urgent need for a direct facility in the establishment of foreign companies in Greece. Allow me, Mr President-in-Office, to propose from the Step this immediate modernisation of Law 3427/2005. Today, some 50 companies are operating in our country, making a turnover of more than EUR 150 million per annum and not on loans but on purely risk capital. The bill also contains provisions concerning the investment of the Greek. Allow me, because I am elected to the B3' elections in the southern Athens sector and because it is my region. For example, Article 194 approves the new position of the central waste transhipment station. Mr. Minister, the Municipality of Greek - Argyroupoli must return to its natural area by building its city hall, the Congregation of Pontian Hellenism and the other structures in the area, as determined. The transhipment station is transferred and is located in part of the cemetery of Argyroupoli, the Municipality of Greece – Argyroupoli, while it is considered necessary to extend the cemetery of Argyroupoli by a hundred acres, as it has been published in relevant FEK. They must finally stay behind whatever problems exist and are stuck with this extension. The current government, ladies and gentlemen, has ensured the closed waste management station, both for the Municipality of Glyfada and for the Municipality of Alimos and for the Municipality of Greece - Argyroupoli. The provisions for the amendment of the Foundation of the Hellenic World, which clarify the objectives and institutional framework of the Foundation's operation in the Municipality of Moschatos-Tavros and more specifically in the area of Tavros, Piraeus. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important that for this bill they have put their views under Rule 38 of the Rules of Procedure, important bodies, important advisors of the Greek state, such as the Economic Chamber of Greece, such as the Technical Chamber of Greece, and many of the comments of all the institutions were accepted. This bill clearly speaks of a development plan for the development of the national resources of the public investment programme through an up-to-date, modern, flexible, substantial national development programme. We must say and agree in this Chamber that it solves major problems and improves procedures at the same time. We give incentives to set up business parks. We regulate matters for the labour market. We are strong at the voice of workers while we are strengthening transparency and participation in the trade union movement, through the electronic register of trade unions, workers and employers. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, 2019 is the time to separate the day from the wheat! In simple terms, a framework law for growth and investment in Greece is created - in simple terms - for investments in the state budget of 2020 which will exceed 13% last year. This is because the reformist government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis finally implements a policy of reducing taxes with generous tax relief for all incomes, primarily for low incomes, which will lead to a high rate of growth. This bill also lays down provisions for the Hellenic Investment and External Trade Company which will facilitate public strategic investment. Significant and substantial provisions are in place in administrative justice with a view to speeding up procedures. The electronic deposit of legal aid and legal means before the Council of State is changing a page for our country, while arrangements are made for the DKKA necessary for its proper functioning. Let us not forget in this Chamber, gentlemen of the SYRIZA, that Ephka left him in a bad way at the expense of thousands of insured persons. We support employment in every way. We are motivating full-time work. We're strict about offenders for undeclared work. [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] I'd like a minute, Mr. President. Thank you for your tolerance. We're strict about offenders for undeclared work. At the same time, we upgrade the information system 'ERGAN' while taking measures, in accordance with Article 59, to protect parttime workers. We are strengthening collective bargaining through this bill and we are bringing arrangements that make our country a modern European country. The establishment of the single digital portal of public administration is an important part. Ladies and gentlemen, one could talk for many hours about this bill, such as the establishment of a red tape monitoring centre, which mainly has the rolling measurement and imprinting of administrative burdens. It will finally lead public administration to a new era. Ladies and gentlemen, the water enters the groove. We're making laws. We raise our heads high by making our country a modern European country, bringing reforms that Greek citizens requested on 7 July. Criticism is always good-looking. But it must be linked with basic arguments. Today, colleagues from Officerial Representation have not been able to put them in this Chamber. I therefore call on all colleagues to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u480	Mrs Karasarlidou Euphoria has the floor, in the hope that she will be over next year. Ladies and gentlemen, let us inform you that we will conclude with number 60. It's Mrs. Kafantaris. So Mr. Avramakis won't talk today. You have the floor, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u481	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill on 'Investing in Greece'. We're talking about development, supposedly, bill. And I say'supposed', because this bill is developmental, but for the few and the chosen ones of this government. It is developmental for the better, but completely undevelopmental for many and, above all, for our national economy, for small and medium-sized enterprises, for workers and for the country in general. It is clear that the bill is under the command of the Association of Industrialists of Greece and the Canalarchs. Article 158 breaks down any possibility of denomination of the shares and the shareholders of the media and especially national television stations. Also, the bill provides that the media owners will not have to submit 'from a point of view', which we are all obliged to do, as is a very large proportion of the citizens. Yesterday, the representative of national television stations said that normal companies were made by this provision. It's normal business. Only these enterprises have the frequencies and are the function of a public asset, such as information, and it is therefore a matter of democracy. To know, in other words, who are the people who give them the good of information. That is why the state has both the right and the obligation to intervene to ensure that it is informed in terms of democracy. You now come and intervene, paying for the election bills. You're taking us back, too far back. Behind the law of Rusopoulos, behind the law of Reppa, as our rapporteur rightly pointed out. This bill is undevelopmental, because there is absolutely no role for the small and very small enterprises and why it effectively dismantles employment relations, without the New Democracy respecting either the decisions of the Council of State. However, the pillar of Greek entrepreneurship is the small and medium-sized enterprise. And you forget that, and forget that the vast majority of private sector jobs have been created by small and medium-sized enterprises. "The backbone of our national economy", that is what you said in the election, that slogan you had made your flag. Mr President, you have to answer us, tell us what you are going to do with small and medium-sized enterprises and what you are going to do with your election commitments. Do you think that it is a tax relief for these small and medium-sized enterprises, when, for incomes of EUR 20,000 to EUR 50,000, the resulting relief is EUR 17? When do we still have to maintain the tax advance at 95%? When we maintain the trade fee, when objective values increase, when 15% electricity was increased for small and medium-sized enterprises and 9% to 10% for farmers? As far as private workers are concerned. You brought a number of provisions on labour into a bill on investment. Why? Because you believe too deeply that the reduction in the wages of workers will help growth. You bring a provision that overthrows the Prime Minister's announcement at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition that the most powerful of all contracts are industry. You have brought a provision whereby you are effectively abolishing public contracts. He told you in committee and the president of GATT. In other words, he said that "State contracts beyond the elementary safety of the worker are the safety of the small employer, otherwise they will lead to unfair competition with similar undertakings. The sectoral contracts, i.e., are those which ensure the smooth operation of the market itself.’ That's what the president of GSEW said. Did you hear him? Do you take into account the operators? You also largely limit arbitration. You're actually canceling it. However, what you need to know about small and medium-sized enterprises, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, is that they are not concerned with wage costs. They are concerned by the turnover, by the demand for products and by the ability of citizens to consume on the domestic market. So we need to define what productive model we want, what economy, what country. We through a targeted policy in 2017 and in 2018 we had a record increase in foreign direct investment, we had an increase in jobs by four hundred and fifty thousand and we had an increase in wages. Our development strategy was not wasted and was trying to serve the public interest. In two and a half years, more than two thousand investment projects were approved in the budget of EUR 5.7 billion. Our national development strategy made the country and especially northern Greece a hub of trade, transport and communications. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Colleagues, the truth is that we have not been surprised by this draft law that you brought in and discussed today and which effectively cancels the prospect of healthy and fair growth. All of us who live and are elected in northern Greece understand where you want to go, following the announcements by Mr.Mitsotakis at the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, where there was cancellation of the Egnatia railway, cancellation of the roads that would connect our country to Central Europe, cancellation of the connection to the silk road, cancellation of the freight centre to the "Gonnon" camp and the new delay in the construction of the metro. Colleagues, I would like to say to you that the memorials are over, the country has come out of the committee, but it is still vulnerable and the private sector workers are extremely badly affected. After this bill - because it will be passed, we have no illusions - the workers will have to wait, it is legalistic, that they will have a reduction in their earnings. I fear there will be a new wave of immigration for young people, that there will again be workers working ten to twelve hours a day, paid at EUR 300.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u482	Ladies and gentlemen, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u483	I'll be done. I fear that the so-called fragile social peace, the so-called fragile social cohesion that is needed for both the country and the citizens, will be disturbed again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u484	Thank you. Mr. Skourletis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u485	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the fastest way to invest is to legality. But you are trying with today's bill to bring this legality to the needs and pursuits of investors, investment. Instead of having an investment to respect the environment, it must respect the existing legislation, it must contribute to the extroversion of an economy, here you are trying, following an obsolete recipe for the economy, an outdated logic of previous decades, extreme neoliberal, failed, tested in our country, to do so. Solve a comprehensive development perception, and that is why it is a sum of articulated articles, where they are trying in a ballistic way to meet concrete demands, not even mindlessly to highlight a new development strategy based on the country's comparative advantages, will respect the environment. An environment that we have not respected over the past decades and which has led to dramas, has been driven into cities, which are now actually being incited in the way they were built in the name of the development of the last decade. But who's growing? These are the questions today. Today's issue is a development, coming out of this deep economic crisis, which has the element of justice. It cannot be a growth that broadens disparities, not based on the world of work, which does not seek to have more jobs, better paid. We are talking about Europe. If there were and were the outdated neoliberal dogmas that it is only enough to reduce taxes and reduce labour costs to bring growth, then - you know - Bulgaria would be the first economy. But it's not like that. Look at the Greek reality, draw conclusions from what we have lived in previous years. And you come here by adopting this logic, that we are trying to put legality in the molds of the investors who come, tell us and bring us proposals like that of the Greek. The Greek, who flagged it, is supposed to substantiate your propaganda that SYRIZA was an uninvesting government. The Greek that we should be in the third month in which the foundations would come in. Fortunately, we did not see these "kiss" towers over there, which you showed. What did you think you were gonna do? They also aesthetize the aesthetics of a country that is characterized by its aesthetics, despite its brutal trespass by many in the past. So for the Greek, you come and say, "Here we will build a city of twenty-seven thousand people, where the public spaces, the squares, will not belong to self-government, will not be the municipalities, but the investor will decide when to come." So what's that? A new private town? Are you going to put bars in the afternoons and forbid people from running around with an entry card? Who will receive the reward fees? The investor? Is the investor going to use the city fees to cash in order to invest them later? What perception, what European practice is consistent with such a perception? What are you doing now? Do you think so? The other thing you want to do again in the case of the Greek. Proven the archaeological site of the peninsula of Agios Kosmas, you know, must be treated as the rest of the ancients in this place. You can't innovate. We cannot go to a new perception of the management of these historic monuments, wherever they exist. Archaeologists will decide. You're not gonna decide neither you nor I. Isn't that right? We see here, however, that this is what you are going to circumvent. Are you innovating for whom? Whose investor? It is a slippery and dangerous road, such as dangerous is the little money that this country has in its development law, to want to channel them to subsidise mining. Where's that going? Why? Mr. Georgiadis said we were talking about marbles. There's no need for the marble industry. It's going very well. It is one of the sectors that has an upward trend right now and is best competitive with international markets. You don't have to. It's a dynamic sector. Let's see where we're going to throw money. And you're talking about mining? In fact, did Mr Georgiadis have the courage to speak to the committee on 'ELDORADO GOLD'? Look, gentlemen, having the experience of Halkidiki "Halkidiki" in Halkidiki, what you should do, if you want to protect the public interest and the environment, is to ask the company why it is not consistent with its signature. Because it has not proven that the verticalization of production, the production of gold in Greece can be done in a environmentally friendly and methodology and not in such ways as the cyanosis that the S.E. has declared. that he is not desirable in this place. Has he proved it? Should he have done it? Will you put this question to the "ELDORADO GOLD"? Will you put it? Will you defend the public interest? Or are your old shoes the environment, like the saints? As you want to bring back obsolete perceptions of a partial diversion of Acheloos and various other pharaonic failed projects? Let's go to the waste, and finish? What do you have for the municipalities? What are you getting into this bill? Be careful to see, we know that when we went to arm municipalities in the previous period, in particular in the payroll sector, cleanliness, through the eight and a half thousand recruitments that we made through ADP, when we gave them the opportunity to obtain machinery to do their job, you were across the street because you said you wanted the municipalities to be anonymous companies. What has a municipality now got to do with it, a local government, which has other features, which is the closest to the citizen institution, to act as a public limited company, only in your own neoliberal mind can one understand it. But this world, where he's gone now, how are you going to use it? Will he sit down? Are we going to see scenes like the ones Mr. Mitsotakis knows about in know-how when he was Minister of Administrative Reconstruction, like the Municipal Police? Are you going to get them suspended? Will you abolish organic positions? Will they have the luck of the old school guards? Nowadays, garbage on the streets starts coming back out. You have an absolute responsibility, gentlemen of the government. And, indeed, you come and say, by changing the previous regime that said that if in some marginal cases a mayor decides to give cleanliness, part of it, to private individuals, at least it must have an absolute majority of the municipal council. And that bothers you too. You don't want that either. And it must be, the law said, to prove that he can't do it by the same means. So what? That he doesn't have the workers he needs. That bothers you, too. Don't tell me that doesn't lead to the conclusion that you want to fire people again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u486	Mr. Skourlet, you're in eight minutes. If you can, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u487	I'm in eight minutes, actually. I'm done. You're right. Indeed, what the country has in the new memorial reality is a coherent plan, which the previous government laid its foundations through the National Development Strategy project. So it would be nice to withdraw half of the provisions from this bill. Read the previous National Development Strategy and come studyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u488	Thank you. Mrs. Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u489	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today you are introducing a bill which you are characterised as a development law. I am sorry to say this, but this legislation has nothing to do with developmental law, and it is very far from development itself. It is a draft law - Franquestein, I would say, a string of unrelated provisions that do not promote in any case development processes, create no incentives, create no financial tools, it does not form part of any development model, it does not promote any strategic planning or plan for the economy. On the contrary, it is characterised by deregulation of labour and deterioration of environmental protection. Even the reduction in the bureaucracy you call for is, in fact, the abolition or relaxation of the rules that exist and apply today. The bill is entitled “Investing in Greece”. This is an intelligent title. I imagine, however, that it is aimed at very few and selected friends and friends you are serving with photographic devices. Your arrangements are in no way directed at small and medium-sized enterprises, nor to young scientists, it does not strengthen innovation or dynamic sectors of productivity, it does not protect workers or it does not preserve regional cohesion. On the other hand, it ensures favourable provisions and promotes lawlessness in the median system, equates college degrees with those of the HEIs, leads to a reduction in wages and labour rights, while at the same time - listen - it provides for increases in high-level executives in the IKO. It's probably blue. We don't know. You constantly call on you to pursue well-paid and quality jobs, but your policy and practice, by voting on this draft law, will lead to the creation of special economic zones with a vertical drop in wages and labour rights. Food's reheated. You tried to legislate on Thrace in 2012, but fortunately, we prevented it. We'll do it now. You also call on international fora to protect the environment, but only to speak. Your policy and practice - again by voting for this bill - leads to reduced environmental protection. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, your bill does not follow the sustainable development objectives nor is it part of the national development strategy, which was formed under the SYRIZA government after wide consultation with operators, society and institutions. Today, the national development strategy is in force and the laws that are legislated must fall within this framework. The strategy is therefore aimed at reversing the deindustrialisation of Greece and increasing productivity and competitiveness. This partly focuses on key areas of innovation and of high added value, developing a strong social and environmentally responsible entrepreneurship culture, but also through the networking of dynamic small and medium-sized enterprises. At the same time, we are focusing on the development of the country's specialized human resources to increase the potential of the main sectors of the Greek economy. And who are they? Transport and logistics, energy, cyclical economy, shipping, agri-food sector, processing, health, environment, tourism and culture. The aim of the national development strategy is to move to a new, lawful, sustainable and inclusive development model in terms of social and regional cohesion. Really, what I mentioned just now and join the national development strategy, do you see them anywhere in this bill? Do you see this bill responding to the capabilities and needs of the country and society? Ladies and gentlemen, nothing new you bring. The logic of this bill follows the logic of previous investment laws that you brought in the previous periods that you had ruled. Characteristics of the previous investment laws were the lack of targeting and planning in line with the country's productive needs and capabilities, the concentration of State aid in increasingly fewer hands and, as you know, the complexity, corruption and money laundering. Especially in the last ones, you're manoeuvres! All these features work as a brake, as a negative element in growth, entrepreneurship and productivity. The exact same features are restored by this bill. I would, of course, remind you that your previous investment laws were found to be completely failed by leaving to SYRIZA thousands of outstanding cases of EUR 6 billion. But you will allow me to focus on a matter of vital importance to Thrace and to Article 3, which provides for the financing of gold mining. A moment ago in this Chamber, Minister of Development, Mr.Adonis Georgiadis willingly admitted that the article relates to gold mining and not to existing activities but to new activities, effectively photographing the "investment" of gold mining in Thrace. He said it was a political choice of the New Democracy. Mr. Georgiadis and Mr. Mitsotakis' government ignore the scientific community's suggestions about the dramatic effects of gold mining in Thrace. In summary, scientists say that the impact relates to the exposure of all living organisms to the poisonous cyanide, degradation or disappearance of production processes and professions, especially those related to primary production, primary sector and tourism, economic implications, depreciation of local products, contamination of water, creation of toxic waste lakes with a risk of poisoning whole areas, zero possibilities for restoring the environment, exclusion of any development perspective. However, the worst thing, ladies and gentlemen, is that Mr Georgiadis - and the Government of New Democracy - is completely and challengingly ignoring the will of the local society of Thrace, which has been stirring up the refusal of gold mining for years, ignores the dozens of leaders in Thrace who have even recently expressed their unanimous negative decision by saying 'no' to gold death. Truly, development for the Government of New Democracy is the death of the inhabitants of Thrace, is the destruction of the environment, is the attack on our health, is water and earth pollution, is animal death, is the disappearance of tens of professions and activities? Is that the government's development plan for Thrace? I repeat that the local society of Thrace is against mining gold and we will fight to the end to defend our land, our health and our lives. I wonder, however, whether the Members of the New Democracy of Thrace will vote in favour of Article 3, will they vote in favour of gold mining and their funding? Will the Members of the New Democracy join the will of our local society, a society that they theoretically represent? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u490	Mr Vardakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u491	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, do you know what you told us today, at least most of you? You told us you saved the country in sixty days. What SYRIZA hasn't managed over the last three years, you've done in sixty days, that is, you've grown big. One wonder on the other, world originality, especially when you received from the worst government, as you said morning, noon, night of the last few days. In fifty days, you raised and stabilised the economy. In forty days you have managed to abolish capital controls, reduce HNVIA, increase the budget to HNVIA, create twice as many primary surpluses. You brought the hundred and twenty doses in forty days. You manage to save a bankrupt PPC in fifteen days. You have just borrowed with 1.5% of 10-year bonds and negative interest rates. Build the antimilitary works in Mandra that have put on for years. In forty days, you solved all the problems in the Greek. You signed the presidential decree, you delineated hayals, you made a problem settlement, topographical footprints due to lack of property registers, permits, contracts, declassifications, you overcome the problems with archaeological services. You did all this in 30 days. You gave the widow's pensions. Yes, were they really given by what law? Did you vote for Law 4611? Did you rule in May 1919 and we don't know? By which law are you returning insurance contributions to the freelance professionals? None of these measures, which you flagged and announced in the past hundred days, were yours. Even the hundred and twenty instalments of our bill were, you just made some changes. You missed some things, of course, that you had to show up, like the airport in Kastelli - I don't know why you forgot these - the northern road, the interconnection of Crete - the Peloponnese. I believe in the next bill that you also show up as your own projects. And we are now coming to see your first bill, as you say, developmental character. It is a clipboard text, without a development vision and design with few exceptions. Without development and investment incentives, it is a narrative of vagueness, without in any case responding to the needs of the times and even concealing a number of "days". Now we're going to the second part of the bill. With these provisions you are going exactly in the 2012-2014 footsteps that the unbalanced policies that you implemented then brought the working jungle, effectively abolishing any concept of law. Of course, it confirms your Chief who was never hidden in the morning, noon, at night he told us that collective agreements were an ideal of SYRIZA. And to tell the truth, Mr. Samaras in 2012 succumbed to the lenders. Are you really the ones who succumbing to the interior troika? We have, of course, seen them at the hearing of bodies fully agreeing with you. The Minister's not here, I don't know why they're gone. After all, I would like to comment that most of you spokesmen did not cover the seven minutes to support the bill. I don't know if you're ashamed of what you're legislating. Explain it yourself. I want to say to Mr. Brutsi if he remembers Law 4046/12 and Law 4093/12? It was your laws that put the tombstone, in fact, on employment rights and instead of being exemplified by these real criminal mistakes you are coming today to return us to memorial times again. Listen, ladies and gentlemen of the government. The bill reflects an extreme neoliberal policy of so-called economic development and competitiveness, at all costs at the expense of social rights. This bill shows what development model you are targeting. It is what makes workers on the margins. It wants workers to be punished the worst. You are in favour of policies that create a reduction in wages and a lack of work security. You are effectively canceling any means of protecting the world of work. Since the first month of the country's governance you have abolished labour rights and measures to protect workers. You have abolished the legitimate ground for dismissal, the co-responsibility and the responsibility of a contractor. The current draft law reintroduces the framework for collective bargaining, sectoral collective agreements, since it introduces exceptions to the validity and extension of collective agreements. In the same spectators work, i.e., L.4024/2011. SYRIZA brought these provisions back by making great struggles, even against the institutions. You in the plan today include many possibilities to exclude companies that have financial problems, both virtually and sometimes, so that they are not included in the sectoral contracts. You are abolishing the two basic principles: the principle of more favourable regulation and the principle of prolongation. Let me give you an example of what you're going to do. Today, tourism has extended the sectoral contract, the contract on food tourism, including a hundred thousand employees, for which a minimum wage of EUR 800 is provided. You annul the possibility of unilateral referrals to arbitration as very narrow and specific conditions are laid down. In undeclared work, Mr. Brutsi is not telling us everything. Yeah, you're reducing the fine. We have reduced it to 3,000 euros, and you are reducing it to 2,000 euros. At the same time, however, you are abolishing the obligation to pay three months of notice retroactively to the worker. In other words, a worse position for the worker. Ladies and gentlemen, in four years' time, SYRIZA has really tried to bring several legislation to protect workers. You, today, really, have all this work regime that we brought in and come to this Chamber and say that you are bringing a charitable bill. We call on you, even now, to withdraw at least the provisions relating to labour legislation. We also call on you to withdraw Article 179, with which you increase municipal fees for the benefit of contractors, reduce cleaning services, and, of course, there will be redundancies for workers. I want to ask, but who should I ask, Minister? Have you read the bill? Can someone explain to me what Article 162 includes? Who are you serving?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u492	Mr. Bardakis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u493	I'll be done. Look, I'll make it clear. The philosophy of the New Democracy doesn't change. And in your philosophy, you still have the complexity in it. Let me explain, then, whoever can explain to me what Article 162 contains and why others refer to the explanatory memorandum and others in the bill. That's why I talked about a complication. Finally, Mr President, thank you for your tolerance, I think we will be across the street anyway and outside the House. We will not allow you to return our country to work in a middle ages. I do not think it is extreme, but if one can use a title in this bill of 'triality','misos','revancism','cynicism', 'complexity for the days'. Everyone is up-to-date. Pick the title.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u494	Mr Vardakis, unfortunately neither the SYRIZA nor the New Democracy Members were left under eight minutes. Mr. Xenophon Baraliakos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u495	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after several years of delay, but only three and a half months after the New Democracy has received a strong mandate for the governance of the country, a very important vote for the Greek development plan, which we are discussing today, "I invest in Greece". It is a bill involving almost all the ministries of government and repositioning our country to the global investment map, after healing weaknesses and removing investment barriers that were deterrent to attracting investment. The crisis has highlighted our structural weaknesses in business and the need to define an improved legislative framework, which shields tomorrow's entrepreneurship and restarts our economy, a legislative framework that runs vertically and horizontally across the economy, bringing together many small reforms, but changing the business environment, helping start-ups and giving life to many more who are facing serious economic problems. It is a bill that simplifies procedures and gives the state a shaping role of the conditions for removing obstacles, which in the year 2019 are standing and intertwined between actors and services. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government is fully prepared and prepared for the areas needed for us to finally become a state friendly for investment, with a defined and stable legislative framework, with competitive working conditions, taking into account the developed human capital we have, with real solutions to bureaucratic squeeze, which in the past have been a pretext for our efforts on entrepreneurship and competitiveness. In modern economies, the investor shall assess all macroeconomic conditions prevailing at the place where he intends to invest and incorporate them into his forecasts for the success of his plan. Our economy today is in the seventy-seventh second place to a level of resilience for new investments between a hundred and ninety countries, and compared to the other European economies, unfortunately, we are in the last of almost all categories of competitiveness indicators. As we understand it, the Greek state does not respond to modern investment requirements. Since the 60 billion investment in our country in 2007, which was 26% of GDP, we have fallen to 20.5 billion in 2018, representing just 11.1% of the corresponding GDP. It is therefore particularly important that, just a hundred days after the takeover of governance, the existing situation has been assessed, the interventions required have been prioritised, consultation has been completed and a piece of legislation that will reverse the existing obstacles and lay the foundations for the dynamic adjustment of our economy has come today. Interventions such as: Incentives to business establishment and attracting strategic investment. Create the Single Digital Charter, i.e. a base with all the critical data associated with the exercise of investment or construction activity. The real acceleration in the process of evaluating investment projects by trained private professionals. Accelerating the process of implementing investments in network infrastructures, as we are in the fourth industrial revolution, with the networks being the driving force. The abolition of the obsolete scheme for the classification of nuisances which are timely and economically burdening the authorisations of new processing and old activities. The obligation for archaeological services to respond within 60 days on how to protect the ancients when they are found during the construction of a large investment. Recently, Minister, in Pieria, in the shadow of Olympus, an investment of EUR 20 million which delayed its start-up by eighteen months due to corresponding bureaucratic malfunctions. The introduction of dynamic changes in the direction of declining the weights raised by entrepreneurs today. These are only some of the contributions made by the bill, which at last simplify procedures, which discourage both the implementation and the return of any new investments. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is characterised by the acidity and maturity required by modern governments to drive the economy forward. It is based on the three-fold simplification - acceleration - of modernisation. Our Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the ministers and government officials are introducing our economy into a new era with objectives, plans and appropriate solutions to deal with the pathogenesis that has been arousing us for years. We become, day after day, a country of modern and worthy of the expectations of our children, in which we owe a future that can achieve goals and dreams. Congratulations to those who worked to bring this bill here today. We should, in turn, support the effort to implement it immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u496	Thank you very much for the time. Mrs Sukoulis, Member of the European Parliament, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u497	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since I remember myself, whether as a freelance professional for twenty years or actively engaged in local government, the term 'development' is a political, economic but, above all, social issue. A question that, in the years of the crisis, has emerged even more strongly into a major prerequisite for the country to find the way to prosperity and progress. On 7 July the Greek people decided democratically to disapprove return to the past, to deplore a failed productive model that the previous government tried to regenerate, adopting all the bad practices that led us to inertia. The need for SYRIZA to create political roots was the exclusive guide to the process it adopted, blocking the real reforms that Greek society has been seeking for years. But these belong to the past. Today we are called upon to respond effectively to the problems that afflict Greek society and free the productive potential of our country and its people. But how? Starting with the basics. It is now clear, even to the most skeptical, that it needs to be produced but also to invade new wealth in the country. Only in this way will quality jobs be created for everyone and, of course, citizens' incomes will be increased. As provided for in the plan, we are directly changing the institutional framework for attracting investments and, indeed, for strategies that will trigger, but also trigger even greater volumes of smaller investments. We are essentially intervening in spatial, environmental and urban legislation, always with care for the defence of the public interest and the protection of the environment. This way we offer an attractive environment for any Greek or foreign investor who wants to invest in our country. The fact is that we protect them from later unfavourable laws with retroactive power. We know what that means, that we are touching the most important problem, even than the investor tax. They will now know that there will be no investment insecurity from the political tooling of each investment. There will be rules and will be observed. They won't change every three or a little. That's what the investment market wants. Finally, the Single Digital Charter is established and I speak in my capacity as a political engineer. Any interested investor, as well as the ordinary citizen, may have access to valid geographical information that is currently scattered across different services with unaccessable access at any time. Fair and easy access to information means saving resources and facilitating the planning of operational actions, without any hostages, delays, ambiguities. But what gives me personally great pleasure and the assurance that our Government wants to hit at their roots the problems that afflict the country is the National Procedure Simplification Program as originally presented at the Writing Observatory. That, ladies and gentlemen, that is to say the fight against bureaucracy, must be our national objective. It is my political belief that the intended economic and not only a prolongation of the development process cannot be achieved unless the bureaucratic strangles that are lagging away at every corner of the citizen's or investor's contact with the Greek public are lifted. And you know that where there are bureaucratic claws, there are also corruption phenomena, there are also phenomena of violation. We therefore fight against pluralism and maliciousness, reduce the steps of administrative procedures, to make the citizens' contacts with the Greek public more friendly, more functional and to provide services to him more qualitative and more valid. Finally, I would like to refer to another strategic intervention by the government in the National Development Plan. Having worked for many years in the management of co-financed programmes by the European Union, where programming and control is concrete and delimited by the management framework of the European Structural Funds and European law, it is common place that interventions financed exclusively from national resources, even small in the years of budgetary narrowness, are distinguished by fragmentation but also non-cohesion in their strategic targeting, but also by a management framework unclear and by a curiously non-determined manner. Effects of the lack of a regulatory framework for the management of these resources are to plunge credits to projects which do not serve a general national development plan or have, of course, synergy between them, so that it does not offer the expected benefits to the country's GDP as well as to the growth rates of the economy. The multi-brand plan tackles this impossibility, that is, it seeks to operate the Public Investment Programme as a real tool for strengthening the development process. Surely the resources are limited, but that is why they should be used smartly to provide multiplier benefits for the Greek economy. Of course, apart from the EDP, particularly in its national strand, resources must be increased, a regulatory framework must be established for the establishment of a national development programme that operates with European management standards. Ladies and gentlemen, the government and the Prime Minister in the first few months, which have taken responsibility for the country, has shown in practice that he has a vision of where he wants to lead the country, has a strategic plan and can implement the necessary actions to liberate the country's productive forces. Because that is what is being done with this multi-project, ladies and gentlemen. A model is being created that now facilitates the production of wealth in our place by exploiting our comparative advantages. The development process was not and is not a static process. Our ability to adapt to new economics, but also to new technological data, will always characterise the extent of our economic and social development. In order to facilitate our adaptation, however, we need to have a sound institutional framework on which we can make any improvements. The polynomial plan responds exactly to this structural need, and that is why it is a decisive first step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u498	Thank you very much. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u499	Thank you, Mr President. With the present anti-competitive, pro-business plan, a further cycle is completed to meet the requirements of the Greek Industrial Association. Besides, he has publicly declared that SYRIZA met 60% of his claims and New Democracy today completes the remaining 32% of these claims. The Government seeks to achieve two objectives: on the one hand, a general attack on workers' working, trade union and insurance rights, a overwhelming attack on collective agreements, especially on industry, an obstacle to strike down the democratic functions of the trade unions, and, on the other, a mere grant of strong privileges to business groups which shield their competitiveness and create a more friendly investment environment. The government, in fact, gives solutions to what prevents investment and capitalist development. It facilitates projects with a public-private partnership, multiplying the cost of their construction, with the people paying for the "broken" and construction companies to treasure. It circumvents elementary environmental and spatial conditions, opening up new areas of profitability to business groups. It simplifies environmental project authorisations. It circumvents terms and restrictions of construction for the sake of the supreme public interest, as stated in the draft law. It reduces the protection and promotion of cultural heritage, removing any archaeological obstacles with fast track processes. It adapts regional planning plans and known swaps to capital investment settings. The characteristic is the construction and operation of the new airport in Kastelli Heraklion, with a concession agreement to a private consortium approved by Parliament on SYRIZA, with the state giving a ‘private’ of one-third of the funded investment, with a thousand environmental and archaeological illegalities destroying the environment and agricultural production, alter the relief of the area and pollute the watercourse and much more. The New Democracy, by stepping on the privileges that SYRIZA gave to the consortium, completes this crime with these provisions, leaving a productive area and its inhabitants in the mountains of the consortia. For the rapid and secure implementation of the investment projects, the Government provides for banks and private companies to be entrusted with the assessment and control of an investment in which they even have the right to certify the implementation of 50% of the investment project in order to subsequently deduct state funding. In this development, however, people do not fit in with the needs for education, health, welfare or, of course, the anti-military, anti-military and anti-nuclear projects, which the people need, whose funds are also limited by the Public Investment Programme and are channelled as hot state money into business groups. The Government, by virtue of Article 179, taking advantage of the reactionary institutional framework which the SYRIZA Government did not of course raise, gives the green light to the entry of business groups into critical services of municipalities, such as cleanliness, with a view to fully transferring the "fleet" of the management of waste to business groups, to electric lighting by looking at the pursuits of business planning in energy and renewable energy, as well as to the green that is accompanied by the exploitation of free spaces, parks and public land. This provision enables the City Council, in its judgment and without an increased majority or a justification, to grant it to individuals. These measures will affect the people who are going to pay for these services and for workers who work with hunger wages and rattled rights to win the investor. Also, under Article 185, it legalises the irregular practice of rotating meetings of municipal and regional councils, i.e. by telephone, further downgrading their role. It considers, in fact, legal as far as decisions have been taken and ceases all disciplinary and criminal prosecutions. This is a photographic provision, taking out 'oil' mayors who have taken steps against people's families for round-up meetings. In conclusion, there is a case concerning a New Democracy official and now a mayor who has already been issued and sent to the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay and pending the performance of criminal responsibilities, on the basis of a body of public administration inspectors confirmed by specific complaints. For all the above, then, BSE, Chambers of Industry, SETE, SEE and all the associations of capital applaud, giving their credit to the Government, as they did to SYRIZA. The simplicity they show in meeting the requirements of capital, however, does not show it in the demands of workers claiming loss-making measures that have lost the years of the capitalist crisis and continue to lose in conditions of capitalist development. With the bankruptcy of 'THOMAS COOK', the government has promptly taken action to relieve the large-scale owners from the end of residence and to regulate the payment of VAT, unlike requests from workers and small and medium-sized professionals in the tourism sector, who have so far not received any substantial response. The New Democracy and SYRIZA, and indeed, at a chameleon level for the "NOVARTIS" case, may be used to cover their responsibilities for the scandal of scandals that are the commercialisation of the medicine and health in general, but in the committee for this multi-legislative project, expressing their satisfaction at the positive contribution of both to the implementation of the requirements of the Greek Industrial Association. The Communist Party of Greece, ladies and gentlemen, calls on the working class, the people's households to take the case in their hands, not to compromise with the development of the few and the crumbs for themselves. They shouldn't be spared to anyone. They must promote their own needs for their survival. We call on the people without waiting, fear and delusion, to choose the way in which they fight, by putting obstacles to the anti-grass measures, until the final overthrow of the barbaric system that makes the richest and the poorest, to join in the struggle for the new society where the people then and only then will they enjoy the wealth that is so hard to produce. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u500	Thank you, Mr. Covenant. Mr. Konstantopoulos Dimitris from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u501	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that the government is bringing to the vote is clearly not a guarantee of development. It is the result, I would say, of the changes that BSE imposes on labour. Let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that one third of the bill relates to work. Also, a large part relates to digital policy and a few provisions have to do with regulation on the part of investments. Ladies and gentlemen, I will focus on the question of industrial relations, because during the crisis the account and the rhetoric of the New Democracy was "we cut the wages to get growth". And I wonder, ladies and gentlemen of the government, because it is worth wondering, how you still have not realised that the reduced competitiveness of the Greek economy is not due to the level of wages. This is because of course there are other factors that have destabilised the Greek economy in low growth. And that is where we need, Mr Minister, to focus and provide solutions, such as the unstable tax framework, the incomplete financing, the slow administration of justice, the absence of the interconnection of public administration structures, the high non-wage costs which, I would say, constitute an anti-incentive to boost recruitment. In that direction, gentlemen of the government, you should move. You, of course, were, instead of putting the real problems on the agenda, reintroducing to work the BSE orders and taking the country back, again at the beginning of the memorandum that came from the troika and swinging the finger on the social partners, saying that wages must be matched to the Balkans. And I ask you, Minister: do you call that growth? Because for us that means divestment. In fact, there is a joint finding: you create conditions for cheap labour for redemption, you undermine sectoral collective labour agreements and you allow businesses to rely on financial problems to pass through the branch in the business contract, which, of course, leaves room for reductions in wages and redundancies. Finally, you leave the ice and the institution of expansion, an institution which helps to cover the workers of a sector or a professional specialisation from collective agreements. And I would remind you that in particular here in the years of the crisis, suspension until recently of the institution of expansion has led to a dramatic reduction in the percentage of workers covered by collective agreements. Indeed, on the contrary, I would say, in Europe today, on the basis of the European Social Charter, freedom of collective bargaining is guaranteed and promoted. Instead of introducing positive measures to tackle the deficit and cover workers from collective agreements, you are creating working-age conditions. That is, ladies and gentlemen, the reality. Let me stress, of course, that you must fight to ensure working peace so that employers and workers can enter a framework of cooperation. That is why, Minister, and we are against the arrangements you bring about. We, the Change Movement, support free collective bargaining and the power of collective agreements. Of course, we are clearly supporting the annual National General Association Convention on Work, as well as sectoral conventions, as well as their universal application in all companies. We can no longer move on with social partners - puppets, puppets, puppets, puppets, pupils, pupils, pupils, pupils, pupils, pupils, pupils, pupils, pupils, pupils, pupils, pupils, pupils, pupils, pedestrians, pedestrians, pedestrians, pedestrians, pedestrians, pedestrians, pedestrians, pedestrians, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, it is incomprehensible, in other words, to create a sovereign minister that can exclude a company from collective agreements if it has a problem, because this leads to a customer state. And it's a client state. Besides, whoever has good relations with the Minister will resolve his issues and whoever does not have good relations with the Minister will wait, perhaps in the middle of the year. Mr. Ministers, finally, it's over. There are institutions and you will have to respect them. Do not degrade the social partners any more and, of course, the social dialogue, because industrialists want to do their job. The world, dear Minister, and in particular the world of work, small, medium-sized and micro-enterprises, is the country's productive fabric. So what we must all do is respect them. There are institutionalised procedures, and even before memoranda, to start operating effectively, which we must not forget. Ladies and gentlemen, free collective bargaining is an integral part of the social dialogue. The social partners are and must be responsible for them, that is to say, the representative employers' and workers' organisations can now deal with the best solution to their problems, find the common interest, create a social consensus that society needs, discuss critical issues such as taxation, social security, tackling unemployment and, of course, the social contract for the development of the country. So, Mr Minister, we believe that the restoration of social dialogue and free collective bargaining and negotiations is a prerequisite for the democratisation of economic life, for the regularity of our economy, for development and for social cohesion. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To conclude, I would like to clarify this: 'Development for all', says Prime Minister Mitsotakis. I fully agree, because growth is the answer to the crisis. I should therefore like to point out to the Prime Minister that unlike other countries, growth and entrepreneurship in Greece were based on small and, above all, small businesses. I would also like to remind him that large businesses in our country only amount to three hundred and sixty-six in a total of eight hundred thirty thousand units. This, therefore, in terms of employment means that small and medium-sized entrepreneurship is the great employer in the private sector of the economy. In fact, the proportion of workers in these enterprises is more than 85%, when the average ratio in other Member States of Europe is estimated to be 66%. And you, Mr Ministers, for small and medium-sized enterprises, and especially for smaller enterprises, did not give the support you should not prioritise. At this point I would like to stress that it is equally regrettable that in the infamous development law there is no provision for the primary sector, a sector that is the objective of all of us. In conclusion, I would like to say that you have done nothing for the banks so that the bank's abusive charges will cease to be a brood for the citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u502	Mr. Constantopoulos, you'll have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u503	I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. That is why we have also tabled an amendment to ban them and we ask you to accept it. We believe that the state must put an end to the practice of banks, which in recent years have imposed charges on any transactional work. We understand that the banking sector has also been affected, but it should be stressed that it has supported the maximum. The burden cannot always fall on the taxpayer and on the trading citizen. That is why you must prove the amendment. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, allow me...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u504	Mr. Constantopoulos, your colleagues will charge me with my special treatment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u505	I shall conclude with one last point, Mr President. I shall therefore close the subject of the film 'Joker'. One thing I have to say is that we have to stop phalism. It is not possible at the age of sixteen and one day for the young person or young person to vote and for the eighteen to be considered as a minor. What is needed is harmonisation of the current legislation with the new data. Of course, the conclusions are yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u506	Mr Constantopoulos, as you can see, the other Members will consider that we have been given special care for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u507	Because of the last hour, Mr President, we will be justified.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u508	Mrs Alexopoulou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u509	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, joy in your courage that you're here from morning to 1.00 in the morning! Ladies and gentlemen, development laws have been tabled so far, but what we have not seen is development, which we in Achaea especially need. The government brings a multi-project that aims to shape a new development and investment landscape in the country. There are a number of changes worth attentioning. In my limited time, I will try to refer to some of them. We have, therefore, mainly reforms aimed at shaping a new entrepreneurial environment by putting an end to the pointless suffering of investors and to all the chronic diseases of the system that operate dissuasively. The promise made by our government to Greek citizens was for high growth and new jobs and this promise intends to keep it. Unfortunately, to date, investment laws, instead of acting as a development tool, have enclosed investors in demonstrable processes and delays by depriving them of valuable resources. The new legislation introduces a more flexible procedure. The building factor of 0.6 on strategic investments in industry is extended. There is currently an increased build-up rate of 0.6 for industries of over 200 million euros with over 200 employees per year. This rate is aimed at industries of EUR 30 million that create seventy-five new jobs. Also, in industries of EUR 25 million, which create fifty new jobs, since they are in business parks. It is planned to simplify licensing legislation by abolishing the system of nuisances and incentives for the establishment of enterprises. As international practice and experience show us, they contribute directly to reducing unemployment through the necessary construction works and creating permanent jobs. Moreover, there is a significant change in decision-making to create a business park. It will be adopted by common decision of the relevant Directors of the Ministry of Development and Investment and the Ministry of Environment and Energy. In short, a critical competence is transferred from the political leaderships of the ministries to senior management. This section is also a practical implementation of the government's intentions to establish a state of staff by transferring powers from political leadership to state officials. It is the dismantling of decisions, the nature of which is purely technocratic. According to the National Plan for the Planning and Simplification of Procedures, the general principles of business licensing are recast in a more business-friendly direction, a simplification of the institutional framework for the unobstructed exercise of economic activity. The abolition of supporting documents, codification and digitisation of procedures are key elements of the programme in order to enhance the quality of services. For the first time, there is a consistent political will to deal with the problem through a comprehensive project by setting up a project group and interministerial participation. The time requires intelligent solutions to complex problems. We all know that one of the main illiteracies of the Greek economy lies in the simple and transparent framework for the organisation of the area and the authorisation of investment. As engineer and representative of the Technical Chamber of Greece I am well aware that the Single Digital Charter is a proposal that the TEI has formulated and presented for two years. This proposal today takes flesh and bone. After a careful study of the proposal, the Government immediately introduces such an electronic solution to the issues of spatial planning, town planning and the licensing of each project. The Single Digital Charter will be the electronic basis of the country, which will gather all the criteria, all the critical geographical data associated with the exercise of investment or construction activity. Any person concerned will be able to click on any point on the map to obtain online all the information he needs on issues such as: current land uses, construction conditions, rhymotomy, agialos, forest areas, protected areas and archaeological sites. After completion of the country's realisation, the limits of all lands will be added. But that's not all. At the same time, the Single Digital Charter will be binding on the administration as well. Such a system will be a lever of pressure in order to operate in terms of transparency, consistency and, above all, law. For the first time, the governors and the administration will operate on the basis of the exact same data. Up to now, the geogeographic data has been scattered across various archives in towns, land registers and elsewhere, resulting in uncertainty among the person concerned as to the completeness of the image of a property, the need for much time and, of course, high cost. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] It is characteristic that in the relevant index of the World Bank on Property Assurance Greece ranks a hundred and fifty-third in a total of ninety economies. Eleven procedures are needed to register property when the average of the wealthy economies of the OSCE is only 4.7. It is an innovative return work that will put an end to the suffering both of the citizens and of course of the investors. It is time for our country to come to the next day, to align itself with all the modern-day countries that have similar systems. At the same time, the creation of the National Infrastructure Register, which will operate in digital format, will provide access to information that will compile the image of the building or building. Its absence to date has led to confusion about the responsibilities of operators for the maintenance and control of public infrastructures and buildings. There are dozens of cases where responsibility goes between central administration, agencies, regions, municipalities, etc. Within a certain period of time all public bodies should declare in the register the infrastructure and buildings, maintenance and control of which fall within their competence. Before I finish my speech, I would like to make a reference to work. Many are wondering why the relevant provisions have a place in this bill. The answer is that they are the prerequisite for triggering the development process, attracting investment and creating jobs. They contribute to returning our country to European regularity by directly applying the rules of the European social acquis and the International Labour Organisation. Some people are trying to give the impression that they are reducing the protection of workers by these measures. Not only is it not reduced, but on the contrary it is increased. We confirm the structure and the basic principles of collective bargaining, with respect for the collective autonomy of the social partners. Sectoral, operational and national or local collective agreements may not contain working conditions which are less favourable to workers than those laid down in national general collective agreements. In addition, there are provisions setting out the dismantling of undeclared work and strengthening the protection of workers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, by making an overall assessment, I express my confidence that the multi-project will change the image of the country at all levels, will create jobs, growth and wealth generation. According to the study by the Bank of Greece, since the provisions of the bill are applied to their fullness, the minimum impact on GDP will be five points in the next decade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u510	Thank you, Mrs Alexopoulou. Mr Fotillas from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u511	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I will make a more political position, since most of what had to be heard, in relation to the bill, has already been heard, they have been exhausted, I would say, both from the Ministers and from colleagues in the Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, we have lived in this Chamber today only moments of incredible pragmatism, which would even be jealous of Feedo. Mr. Tsakalots came to this Chamber today to blame the capitalist system. We're gonna be all right, aren't we? Four-and-a-half years, Mr. Tsakalotos - to convey it to him, Mr. Pappa - was the hardest supporter of the capitalist system. He legislated on provisions that we, which are supporters of capitalism, did not dare nor did we think about legislating, such as the reduction of tax at EUR 5,500 and the abolition of the CSCE. But Mr. Pappas kept us best. Mr. Pappa, you really overrun yourself. Mr. Pappas, Minister - you weren't here this morning - made us a huge revelation. It revealed to us that the previous government had already reached a negotiation with the institutions of reducing surpluses from 3.5 to 2.5%. Didn't you tell us, Mr. Pappa?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u512	Did you hear that today?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u513	Today I heard, yes. And we came, after we won the elections, after intense negotiations with the partners, and while they did not want them, we convinced them to go back to 3.5% of the surpluses. Isn't that what you said, Mr. Pappa?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u514	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u515	Mr. Pappa, we said we'd say a little too much, but you're the ones who finished it! Really, with these arguments you expect someone to take you seriously? Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the debate on this draft law on investment is concerned, the total absence of a serious credible Vice-President is revealed. I am explaining: We have a bill that does self-evidently, a bill that tries to resolve the problems and passionate decades, which speeds up and rationalises the procedures for the authorisation of businesses, which sets out specific anti-management objectives, which integrates the country's extrovertism structures, which ensures the participation of the private sector in the national export growth objective established by the National Development Programme, a bill that speeds up the judicial process by means of electronic depositing and the performance of procedural documents, which stimulates and simplifys the status of integration and operation of an undertaking in business parks, a bill which, through its interventions in labour progress, gives rise to healthy and clean rules on the labour market without ideals, which extends the self-responsibility and autonomy of the social partners, and protects the jobs that are still at stake in all of our trade unions and citizens. So, against this bill, what did we hear from SYRIZA Members, and above all from the rapporteur and former Minister? What were his arguments against this bill? Nothing, apart from the well-known ideological and populist krone of pluralism, interests, elite, bosinakis and I don't know what else. Mr Papa, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you need to change the tape and you know why? Because this tape you're playing is good for before you go to government. If governments are not good anymore. You have ruled for about five years. You are the longest-lived Memorandum Government. There is no point in blaming us that we are in favour of privatization or of the private economy or investment. It doesn't even make sense to accuse us of wanting employers to make profits. It doesn't make any sense for two reasons. Firstly, why don't we deny it. We didn't hide it, on the contrary, calm it down. That is exactly what we supported in the election campaign, and precisely in order to implement this we were elected by the Greek people. I realize it seems strange to you that a government does what it said as opposition, but you have to get used to it. What can we do? That's what's happening. So we have no problem telling you that, yes, we are in favour of demilitarisation. Besides, history has shown that the state is the worst manager. Yes, we always believe in the power of the private economy for the benefit of many. Yes, we are in favour of investment and, yes, we want the profits of employers, because we believe it necessary for the welfare of workers, because how can an employer support his worker and even more so how can an employer who is damaged? So if you think you're embarrassing us with this, you don't understand anything. However, it makes no sense to accuse us of this, Mr Pappa, and for another reason, because many of it when you govern - I would remind you that you have ruled for about five years - you have legislated for yourself. You legislated privatisations, ports, vamps, airports, Greek and this is your problem, because while you were fighting them, you then came to rule and legislate, but again something was wrong with you, and while you legislated them, you undermined them. You have legislated development law, but you have not implemented it. You personally did not get rid of him from the committees. You know, Mr Pappa, populism is easy when you are opposition and, in particular, when you are a small party of 3%, but populism becomes a "branche" when you become a party of power and especially when you are invited to governments, because then the revealings of lies and pity are made. It is regrettable, because while SYRIZA is looking for its existential problems, the country is deprived of a serious and reliable counter-population. I've said it before, I'll say it one more time, and I'll close with it: Maybe we had to live the SYRIZA rule, get to the edge of the cliff, get things clear, go to every rascal on his counter, look at all of us in the mirror and go back to a page. That's what this bill does. He's turning a page. I am not saying that this bill solves all the problems of our country, but I really did not expect anything better for starters, so I am happy and proud to vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u516	Thank you very much, Mr. Firela. Mr Cretan has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u517	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, congratulations. I see you unshakable. You're still a guard here! Ladies and gentlemen, the "Invest in Greece" bill creates a new development framework, which will help the country progress with hope and optimism in the new social and economic environment that is being shaped. It outweighs strangles that prevented investments to start up, protects precarious work and helps businesses, which face the risk of bankruptcy. The government's plan is moving in the right direction, i.e. it removes obstacles for decades and is distinguished by innovative reforms. It leaves behind ideas, which perpetuate relations between the state and the market, while at the same time strengthening the positive climate that has been created towards our country and institutionalises the new business framework. The basic principle for these interventions is the protection of the employer, the worker and the citizen. Besides, we couldn't talk about growth if we hadn't placed the man in its center. That is the essence of liberalism, of which we are societal. In other words, it is unnecessarily necessary to defend individual freedom and action, private property and to protect the free development of the business, which at the time of the development of liberalism was demanded. We must today legislate to protect individual entrepreneurship from state intervention or the frugality of the state mechanism. In a more general perspective, therefore, the multiplier project concerns seventeen Ministries and therefore all those aspects of business and social life. It is assumed that its implementation will directly affect the daily life of the Greek businessman and the Greek working citizen. My references to the individual provisions therefore start with the work, for which the opposition has so much been afflicted. With the new bill, we protect the insecure jobs in companies with problems, we inspire transparency in the representativeness of the trade union by electronic voting, and we face the implied work, which removes resources from the social security system and income from the workers. Subsequently, the creation of the digital map will result in all geographical information being available and ultimately potential investors having more information to process before their investment. Data such as terms and limitations on construction, land use, town plans, sewerage and building lines, land registers, forests, areas of the NATURA 2000 network, gialou, beach and port areas will be available for processing. The digital map will now be particularly important for my prefecture, the Laconia Prefecture, where agricultural and livestock activities could well be developed along with tourism development, as the combination of fertile territories, high mountains and large coastline create the right conditions for this. As regards business parks, the absence of an organised national development plan was one of the key factors for not attracting investment. Studies show that businesses operating in a business park have 25% lower installation costs and a number of other benefits that favour their development, innovation and extroversion. Also, the creation of the National Infrastructure Register is very important. It will include and identify all the public buildings in our country, so that it is clear, anyway, who is responsible for maintaining and controlling them. With regard to innovation-related provisions, the administrative body set up will have as its main objective the development of policies to cover the gap between research and innovation in the country. The ultimate aim is to link research to entrepreneurship. Without research entrepreneurship cannot evolve. And to make one allegiance, I'd like to see entrepreneurship as a tree, economic liquidity to water and, of course, research to light. So you understand that without light there is no tree, so without research there will be no healthy entrepreneurship. In addition, one of the main problems solved by this bill is the suffering of citizens in justice procedures. And it is a crucial point, because citizens must view justice as a sacred place, be seen as a pillar of the orderly functioning of society and not as an area of suffering and delays. The electronic submission of the pleadings and all relevant documents, as well as the digitisation of legal instruments, will help speed up proceedings. With the National Development Plan we are going through a new era, as the concept of programming is introduced in the design, implementation, monitoring and control of development assistance financed by the Public Investment Programme. What one finally finds in the explanatory statement and in more detail the individual articles in the bill is that our government is trying - by maintaining political realism in the provisions of the previous government's development law - to create the best possible framework for the efficient influx of new investments, but also for the speeding up of older investments, which are ponding, in order to create new and good jobs. The only goal of this government is to make Greece a lighthouse for growth, a country with satisfied citizens, with normal everyday life. For these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u518	Thank you. And we're finishing up with Mrs. Kafantari from SYRIZA. Here, you have the floor, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u519	Thank you, Mr President. We are discussing a very serious bill, as was described by the Minister responsible, Mr Georgiadis. Of course, I don't see it here, and I didn't see him much today. You are - you have the courage and you are watching - Mr. Papathanassis. So I'd say one thing for those who are watching us right now. This draft law has nothing to do with development. Why? Because the transition to a sustainable development model - which is more than ever an option - is a demanding, multi-dimensional and long-term process. It requires a transformation of the state, of the market, of entrepreneurship, of human resources, and of strengthening the production base. The objectives of sustainable development for the United Nations in 2030, the Paris Climate Change Treaty and the European Union's directions show, in fact, the directions to be taken by development. They connect economic, social, and environmental dimensions. At the core, therefore, any development policy must be the issue of labour dignity, employment relations, wages and others, the environment and the preservation of natural resources. So development with design, in terms, and of course with control. Spatial development with environmental protection, ancient heritage, always in line with our country's European commitments. Our time is marked by new threats. The planet is at risk of climate change. Enlargement of inequalities is increasingly dominating. We therefore need a new mix of development, a new mix beyond the market and GDP, because here there are workers with their rights, beyond the average conditions, because the average conditions are actually hiding social inequality, beyond that here and now. We do not care about development only for the present day, but also about the future of the next generations. The new growth requirements must therefore serve prosperity, sustainability and durability. We heard Prime Minister Mitsotakis late September at the UN Summit on Climate and UN targets and at the European Summit last week. He referred to specific areas of development. It even referred to the agri-food sector. However, Mr Mitsotakis said that abroad. What's going on inside? This bill is coming. It is a wire - I would say - a set of regulations, which concerns many ministries. The Minister spoke that the main aim is to buy and increase the turnover of enterprises. Under the logic of investment accelerating - something we do not all want, and we want to see - there is growth without conditions, limits and rules, by violation of labour conquests. There are no specific development objectives in the bill. On the other hand, mining, courier, press distribution and so on are subsidised, sectors which have no multiplier effect on the economy. On the contrary, questions are probably created for service and interests. Our country in the governance of SYRIZA has for the first time acquired a national development plan with an emphasis on the knowledge, innovation economy, taking seriously the dimension of the 4th industrial revolution and, of course, climate change. The bill circumvents the basic principles of integrated planning and territorial cohesion and does not harmonise spatial planning with development planning. Article 11 on mooring permits medium-term nuisance facilities in Attica, even if they are organised activity receptors, and it is known that Attica is a highly charged environmental area, for example, with regard to traffic, transport, noise, air pollution. The aim should be to decentralise economic activities. It is still a step backwards from the settings of Manos and Souflias, which is fortified under Article 25 of the 2014 Regulatory Plan, which supports new low and middle nuisance activities, but in mixed-use areas and already available building and industrial stock. Why is it not taken into account that regulatory also promotes the relocation of incompatible vehicles and polluting uses, especially from areas subject to protection status? After all, the European Union's policy on the urban environment encourages green, sustainable cities, health protection against air pollution and, of course, there are directives in the EU. in relation to noise. Also, we now have two specific articles, 207 and 208, concerning spatial planning. The mandatory pre-approval procedure in Article 207 shall be repealed. It legalizes any special spatial planning over existing designs in one area, while there is the power of n.4447/2016. As regards Article 208 to date on the basis of Law 4447/2016, a local spatial plan per municipality is drawn up and a presidential decree is required which regulates land use and construction conditions. But now, with the bill we are discussing, there is a fragmentation of space, not the integration of spatial planning and local spatial plan by communities, not by municipality, as envisaged by the 2016 Act. That was a very serious issue, because we are talking about will design, as appropriate. I mean, not planning. I would like a minute, Mr President. I'm the last speaker. Article 179 of the bill we are discussing concerns local government and the possibility of privatising functions of local government, such as cleaning, waste, electric lighting, etc. Today I discussed this issue in some municipality of western Athens that I had gone to with the elite of workers, as a Member of the New Democracy said, cleanliness workers and municipalities. They're upset. What matters and the government must take into account is that there are many unanimous decisions of municipal councils. Today the Municipality of Peristeri decided. Also, the Municipality of Petroupoli. But elsewhere. They're asking for the withdrawal of this article from the bill. It's very serious. The issue will also be raised in the CEDEFOP. Of course in the Association of Municipalities of Attica. I'm gonna hang up with Tritsi Park. You're giving a solution. But we must not forget that the Tritsis park was received in 2016 by previous administrations on previous governments. We must also not forget that the management body, its term of office, has now expired for about a week. Now Tritsi Park is headless. The Government must immediately appoint a new management board. I just want to say that there are problems and risks in the medium term. It is positive that state funding from the CAP in the park is being provided. Mr Patulis, of course, when the SYRIZA government made the body and provided money from the state budget, he said he would bring it to justice for this. I don't remember well. Now, of course, he's happy. It's okay, let's move on. From there on, what I must stress is that the government must immediately give a solution to the park through the appointment of new members to the administrative board of the park operator so that it can actually function. I will close by saying that in the end this draft law is business asual. It has nothing to do with development because it does not give a development vision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u520	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-23-S1-commons.u521	With the agreement of the House at now 1.43' the meeting is closed for Thursday, October 24, 2019 at 9.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate; b) legislative work, continuation of the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: "I invest in Greece and other provisions".
