ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Recommendation of a National Public Health Organisation (EOECD), regulations on tobacco products and other issues of the Ministry of Health". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 10 October 2019 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and amendments. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Christodoulos Stefanidis, has the floor for 15 minutes. I am telling the House that the electronic card record system is currently being opened and the speakers will be registered by the end of the speech by the second rapporteur. Mr Stefanade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we are recommending a bill that aims not only to upgrade and modernise our country's health system but which will form the basis for a change in the way we treat public health over time. There is at last a burden on research, development and innovation, and proposals are put forward to restore healthy competition in the field of medicine. Moreover, the way in which emergency situations are handled, which are growing and growing. Research by the Athens Medical Association shows that the services provided, but also health structures, have been considerably degraded in recent years. In this survey it seems that the Greeks are dissatisfied with the health system they have, while four out of five - look - they think the services have deteriorated from 2007 to April 2008. Let us look in particular at the bill. The new organisation, the National Agency for Public Health, the EGE, will be subject to the supervision of the Ministry of Health and will now be a legal entity under private law, with a wider and clear level of services. Under the existing circumstances such a change is necessary, since the purpose of the EGE is not only the self-management of public health with regard to the citizens of the country, but also the huge task of covering refugees and migrants. Even pandemics, important natural and biological events and bioterrorism, the risk of which is always being affected, are major health threats and, of course, require coordination and rapid response, which is achieved by changing the legal person from public law to private law. In particular, the EGE shall constitute the operational centre for the planning and implementation of public health protection actions, with a preventive, operational and interventional nature and with a readiness to respond to emergency health risks. Its functions will be coordinated with the respective needs of the country and society and international organisations with which it will cooperate closely. For example, some of the issues handled by the EGE are related to the prevention of chronic diseases, the epidemiological observation, the provision of opinions on scientific issues, the early detection of communicable diseases, the introduction of measures and means of intervention and others. It is worth mentioning at this point that in recent years many infectious diseases such as malaria, bite fever, the West Nile virus, unknown to the West, have appeared in our country and created the problem we all know. The main functions of the Agency shall also include risk assessment, preparedness and response activities, the provision of reliable and comparable epidemiological data and statistics to competent bodies at national, European and international level, health education and training activities, public and health professionals information on the risks of serious health threats and the promotion of awareness-raising actions. All this is provided for in the legislation under discussion and in the draft legislation. In order to do all this, it is necessary to acquire the appropriate know-how that will make our country a pioneer in health, prevention and effective response to risks. Through the achievement of the EGE's objectives, the acquisition of relevant scientific and technical data, scientific support, 24-hour readiness, movable units and others provided. The new organisation will comply with the international rules on European Union legislation and the International Health Regulations and will work together on issues of environmental health and environmental protection, which are of major importance at this time, especially if we consider that environmental protection is in the first priorities of the Council of the European Union, particularly at this time with the current Finnish Presidency. The bill refers to the systematic development of international cooperation and, in particular, to the monitoring of the work of the European Commission, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control - the known ECDC - and the actions of the well-known American CDC, whose intervention actions we know at American and global level. The draft law also provides for legislation on the training of qualified doctors and nurses necessary for the operation of the system. Innovation is presented in Article 3 on the administrative structure of the new organisation. The proposed arrangement defines the management bodies of the EGE, which are the seven-member board of directors, the chairman and the two Vice-Chairmen. This structure, ladies and gentlemen, follows international and European standards. In particular, in the European analogue organisation, the ECDC, and in the US CDC, a similar administrative structure is followed. At the same time, it should be noted that the two Vice-Presidents - these positions are now set up for the first time - are scientists of unknown prestige and deal with scientific issues of each organisation with its specificity, one is related to infectious diseases and the other is not contagious. With regard to the staff of the EGE in Article 9, in addition to the position of the Director-General, a post of Director-General shall be established, subject to the need for knowledge in the administration and professional experience of the Agency. The position of Head of Directorate-General for Information and Electronic Health is also established, as is the case in the US system. Article 10 refers to the mandatory statement of cases of infectious diseases and the keeping of a record of epidemiological data, and in the following Article 11 defines reference centres for specific diseases or for situations relating to public health. Article 12 refers to the central public health laboratory, which already exists as an organic unit of the new organisation and regional public health laboratories as decentralised units. This is very important for the centrally effective functioning of the system. Another innovation is the fact that public health policy will now be based on cost-effectiveness analysis, which has so far not been sufficiently supported. This will resolve the problem of bureaucratic dysfunction in order to achieve adequate and immediate management of emergency and unforeseen situations. We shall then refer to smoking, which is an important part of the draft legislation under discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, the World Health Organisation reports in shock. In particular, half of the smokers die from causes associated with tobacco consumption. It is also mentioned by this valid body that the tobacco epidemic is the biggest threat in the world throughout the history of the human species, with more than eight million deaths per year. Of these more than seven million come from the direct use of tobacco and - look - one million two hundred deaths are the result of forced smoking. It should be understood that, unfortunately, passive smoking is also considered to be smoking, only to think that cigarette tobacco can remain in the air for up to five hours. It is also inspired by the fact that smoking is a key predisposing factor in coronary disease, of which most people suffer - compared to other diseases - in Western societies and is the first cause of mortality and morbidity. Scientific studies also show that smokers die up to ten years earlier than the theoretical survival expectancy, while on the basis of the International Organisation for Cancer Research, there is an inseparable link between smoking - even passive - and many types of cancer, apart from the known relationship with lung cancer. Also scientific evidence shows that 37%, unfortunately, adults smoke in our country, more than fifteen thousand people. In other words, a city as a whole dies every year from situations that are directly linked to this harmful habit. In Part II of the new draft law, taking all of this into account, Articles 16 and 17 eliminate the possibility of setting up a smoker's area and provides for the extension of the ban on the consumption of tobacco products in closed sports areas and outdoor sports, entertainment and the concentration of minors, depending on fines - in any case - by the infringement. It is important to change the fact that EULAS staff can help self-sufficiently implement the existing infringement control legislation. Because we must point out here that at a time when there is an act of infringement, if the EPPS is not taken over, every piece of legislation seems to be overthrowing, and that has shown that the progress of the last decade has been shown in the attempts to curb this destructive habit. With regard to the part of the draft legislation relating to medicinal products - Articles 19 to 25 - the proposed arrangements will have beneficial effects on the rationalisation of pharmaceutical costs and on the more efficient use of available resources, while ensuring patient uninterrupted access to medical care. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, we have been living in a number of recent cases in our society in the efforts of severe cancer patients to approach new treatments and not to be able to do so. At the same time, the Committee for the Negotiation of Medicinal Products aims not only to streamline the pharmaceutical costs and the pricing process, but also to provide patients with innovative treatments. According to a EUROSTAT study, most of the population in the European Union, which consumes prescription medicines, is over seventy-five years old. Unfortunately, in our country, the threshold is much lower, it is between sixty and sixty-four years. This is obviously due to other factors, but unfortunately also to the overregistration, which we know is a problem in the system. Article 19 provides for the possibility of voluntary reduction of the price of a medicinal product which may lead to a more general reduction in the price of medicinal products. Also important is Article 20, which concerns the offsetting of automatic reimbursement of pharmaceutical expenditure on research expenditure. That is, for the first time in this bill, is based on and emphasised in the field of research. Articles 22 and 23 on criteria, procedure and methodology for the evaluation of generics, which we know how much they offer to reduce pharmaceutical expenditure, lay down measures that will make the procedures more rapid, resulting in the savings of resources. The IV and V of the bill relate to the outstanding liabilities of the EEAY and the ESS hospitals. These are also referred to in Articles 26 and 27, and in Part F, they are amended - arrangements concerning the functioning of the EAW are being completed. Research into the needs of citizens on health issues and in particular on issues relating, among other things, to emergency situations, unfortunately, ranks Greece as the country with the largest index of discontent among its citizens after Estonia. This discontent is intensified in the rural areas of our country. In particular, it provides for the abolition of the EMCDDA and the transfer of its powers to crisis management in the EMCDDA. Amendments are also made to the Statutes for the EAFRD, a separate section of health operations is set up and a single enterprise centre is set up. The proposed strengthening of the EMCDDA aims at its future operation as a central pillar of the system and of emergency medicine. In addition, the EMCDDA is converted into a centre for coordination of pre-private and hospital care in order to achieve greater unity and better coordination of actions in urgent cases. Finally, in Part VI, Article 35, in order to ensure compliance with the obligations of administrative staff, there is the possibility of an end to a term of office of governors and subordinates if their performance is not in the desired context. And that will heal all these stories with court disputes of commanders who have tried to solve their term of office. Other issues concern the framework for funding, information and training on infectious diseases, pandemics, etc., while on the basis of Article 39 of the bill under discussion, each health care facility, clinic or hospital laboratory can act as a centre of expertise of rare diseases, which aims to produce scientific knowledge and optimise health services. For all these reasons, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the public interest and the improvement of the health of the Greeks, we are proposing the draft law of the Ministry of Health as an excellent attempt to tackle all these health problems, not only at present, but also in the foreseeable future, because - you will agree with me - health is the highest good. We all deserve and deserve access to modern technologies and modern structures, especially in the country of Hippocrates, in our country, where medicine was introduced as science and was cut off from magic and paganism. In this country, therefore, Greeks deserve a better health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition by the Chamber of the "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, forty-four members of the KAPI of the Municipality of Holargos - Papagos. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Xanthos, the rapporteur from SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have the first bill from the Ministry of Health. In our view, this draft law does not bring about any significant structural change in the functioning of the health system. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] Furthermore, in our view, the crucial political issue that arises is that it effectively cancels the resolution intervention that we had launched since the beginning of 2019, transforming the former ERIC into a National Public Health Agency as a legal entity governed by public law, without changing either the title of that body or the structure and content of its operation. The critical change that this bill brings is that it restores the status of the legal person of private law, that is, the legal status which has allowed for the past decades the opacity, immunity and - I would say - the pity of managing this very important area for the protection of public health. I believe that this alone is sufficient political reason to vote against this bill, although there are provisions which we will support and vote for in the debate, such as the provisions on the application of the anti-smoking law, such as the provisions on merger and single coordination of the EAW - EAEC and other individual arrangements that are in a positive direction. I therefore believe that the message that the Ministry of Health and the Government is giving today is wrong, because there are too many people who are currently seeking to block the investigation and the judicial development of scandalous cases involving the CEDEFOP and its management, and indeed, in a misdemeanorous manner, but also possibly restore a regime of extreme customer logic and extremism. I believe that the signal and message given in these directions is problematic, with the reintroduction to the status of the legal person of private law. Irrespective of good intentions - which I would like to believe there are - or remedial moves, indeed, in the part of the armour in the field of recruitment and supervision by the AACC, etc., which the Minister has made, I believe that this crucial reason is the reason why we insist on the start of the draft law. There are other issues, of course, apart from the legal form. It is the President's profile, that there is no procedure for the approval and opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs, that is to say there is no transparency procedure and, above all, a procedure for selecting a person. Just because this body has been stigmatized in the past, I believe that the choices of people who have the first responsibility must give a signal of relevance to the subject, adequacy, knowledge, experience and well-known scientific authority. That's very critical. I think that this is how all serious public health protection organisations are structured around the world. I think that what is now pending really is to move quickly. The looseness we have actually left was to move forward quickly to the completion of the EGE's establishment plan, so that the structure of a modern scientific body, which can intervene effectively and manage health crises, critical challenges that concern, for example, the health care of refugees - migrants, as well as the new emerging threats associated with climate change and its impact on public health, are reflected in the new establishment plan. Allow me here and a parentheses. I hope that this persistence of yours and your obsession with the legal person of private law is not related to a proposal I have read these days, which was tabled at the General Assembly of the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association - where trade unions approaching the New Democracy have openly formulated this proposal to be a recommendation from the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association to the government's political leadership - to transform hospitals into legal entities of private law, to abolish substantially the full and exclusive employment of hospital doctors, which is a nuclear element of the establishment and operation of the ESS, and to enable private doctors to provide services within the National Health System.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u6	That's a reasonable suggestion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u7	So it makes sense, Mr. Economou, that proposal. I expect the Minister responsible to tell us whether this scenario is being discussed seriously by the Ministry's political leadership and the government. Because, if it is being discussed seriously, it completely changes the context and the debate, but also the controversy with us. This is a key issue for us. It is a bomb in the public character of the ESS and I believe that this will not happen, such a prospect, doctors and workers of the public health system. On the subject of smoking and non-implementation of the anti-smoking law, which we know very well that it has been passed for many years, it is clear that it is a difficult and complex issue. Once again there were election promises that the next day New Democracy will take over the government will cut smoking in the country. I would remind you that in the past such objectives had been set, that on 1 September 2009 Greece cuts cigarettes and more. I recognise - and we recognise - that there was a serious law enforcement deficit and that was offensive to the country and its image in Europe. Of course, this has had a serious impact on a major public health problem. So every move that wants to strengthen measures and interventions that will lead to even a gradual implementation of the anti-smoking law, I think it is in the right direction and that is why we support it in principle. Of course, cross-sectoral cooperation, strengthening of control mechanisms, inter-ministerial coordination and many other things are needed. There are two loose ends. I said that to the committee. The ratification of a World Health Organization's protocol on smuggling of tobacco products is an openness and an obligation of the country. The plan's ready. We have told the political leadership to work with the Ministry of Finance to bring it to the House for ratification. Secondly, there must be a provision to strengthen the control role of the Ministry of Health not only in relation to closed public spaces and shops, but also to the tobacco industry, which often carries out non-legislative actions for the promotion and advertising of particularly new tobacco products. I think it should be possible for the Ministry of Health to impose fines and give a signal of tolerance to such behaviour. With regard to the EAW-EFTA combination, we obviously agree. He needs better coordination. There have been corrective movements, because there have been multiple levels of coordination in the initial phase. More operational support is needed in this period, mainly with human resources. We've strengthened the aerospace base. We've added two more. We need another third in the northeast Aegean. There are elaborated positions and designs from the EAW that need to be speeded up and launched. Of course, it is also necessary to upgrade the operation of emergency departments, which are interconnected with emergency pre-privileged care, which is the EAW. There, let me say, although we all recognise that there is a problem, that it is the first line of defence of the health system, which is problematic, that there is suffering for the citizens, too long waiting times, etc., as we have said in public, there are ready two hundred and eight permanent specialists from the ESS, targeted at the TENs of the 1st and 2nd RES, and in particular the Lectury and the islands of the Aegean, which, for a number of minor formal reasons, do not go any further. All of them have been referred back together, instead of only targeted improvements where there is a problem. In my opinion, this is a process that delays the necessary reinforcement of this first line of defence of the health system and I believe that it will greatly improve the operation of both on-call and emergency management. I conclude with the subject of medicines: the bill makes a number of important changes in a context which, ladies and gentlemen, has been launched, legislated and implemented - with delays and, possibly, with problems, not at the required rate - by the SYRIZA Government. By 2015, we did not have a system of pharmaceutical policy with security folds. There was no mechanism for evaluating pharmaceutical innovation. He was made and has already been evaluated for the first drugs - more than a hundred - and has been assigned with reliable scientists and a transparent selection procedure for these people, meaning without favorism and relations with the government. And that is what you are going to change, that is to say abolish the process of pre-selection and mobilisation of the candidates by a three-member committee which we have established and which is an absolute competence of the Minister. Instead of moving quickly - and I think this is the great outstanding - on the establishment of an organisation for the assessment of health technologies, an HTA, as we say, which is the great institutional armour that the health system needs in our country and there is a ready preparation, which we will present to you on our part - we have set up a special working group with high-profile scientists who have recommended it, and indeed with the technical supervision of the World Health Organisation - you want to abolish the existing committee and appoint one of your preferences. Is there a problem in speeding up and rendering structural measures? Obviously there is, but the essence is that until recently there was nothing and for the first time we have an evaluation and negotiation mechanism, which has started to render, therapeutic protocols incorporated into the electronic prescribing system and first issued for the first time a register of patients and an electronic pre-authorisation system for the exceptional authorisation of medicinal products to patients with bibliographical and clinical documentation for the necessity of having access to them and, of course, transparency in the invoicing system. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We abolished the price committee, which existed at the Ministry, which allowed ministers and their advisers to intervene in the process of formulating the price report. The EEO and its trustworthy people, who can really put together a framework. There is a matter of drug spending internationally. Pharmaceutical innovation, the new epidemiological profile, chronic illnesses, cancer, autoimmunes, new needs that are constantly emerging cause an international increase in the cost of medical care for people. This is a debate that concerns the whole world and concerns all international scientific and political fora and anyone who knows that. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] The World Health Organisation - let me say a little, Mr President - has said that it is growing every year from 7.5% to 10% by the average of drug spending around the world. It increases in our country as well. There were further reasons here. Firstly, we have very low budget and must gradually increase. This year, with our political choice, the previous government has increased by EUR 45 million the budget of hospital medicines. Most importantly, however, the major change that took place in our country was that there was the guaranteed coverage of uninsured citizens at a level of around EUR 250 million per year for EEA spending. That is why, although we have a stable level of spending, there is an increasing market in medicines. There is, of course, also overcoming, which creates side effects and problems. Right, in my view, there is an attempt to offset a small part of the clawback with costs related to research and innovation in Greece. This wants a better framework, we have tabled a number of specific criticisms. I close, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that we in recent years have fought for the survival of the health system, for a fight against accessibility of the health system and for an ethical battle for the health system. These were very critical interventions in a field that we all knew had time-consuming distortions and problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u9	I shall conclude, Mr President. We believe that we have done so because the reliable and honest human resources of the health system really set back, supported this effort and recognised the intention of having a serious resolution in this area. Now, in our view, the bet is the quality of care, the fullest coverage in an equal and universal manner of people's health needs, the elimination of adequate inequalities still in health care, the control of resource efficiency and the completion of critical reforms, such as primary health care. These are the principles on the basis of which we will fight, documented and programmed opposition to the new government. And let me just hang up here saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u10	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u11	I shall conclude with that, Mr President. I have to support a move, in our view, of extreme political authoritarianism, which has been manifested in previous days by the act of legislative content to abolish the self-interest of the CECH. It is a major issue and there are reactions. We call on the ministry's political leadership to make moves to dismantle this situation and to cancel in practice a regulation that creates very important side effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u12	Be well. Mr Colleague, you will allow me, although I cannot say anything more, to tell you: If you remember, in 2014 you were rapporteur in the draft law that he had brought for uninsured people. There's a big deal. I won't say anything more. It was you and Mr. Zacharias here. I was the rapporteur from PASOK then and was Mr Adonis Georgiadis. It's important to everyone to share his Minutes then, so everyone can see them. Thank you very much. I would ask that we close the list of speakers. Here, Mr Skreka, you have the floor to develop the amendment by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to inform the House of an amendment tabled by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, number 45 and number 3, concerning the amendment of Article 3 of Law 4492/2017, which provides that Article 3 is added to that Article, which states that a decision of the Minister for Rural Development and Food shows the completion of the development of the digital service and that the date of its full operation is fixed. Allow me, Mr President, to explain briefly to my dear colleagues what this is all about. The great problem we have with the movement of agricultural products and foodstuffs, namely fresh and vulnerable products, that is to say, products after 30 days, is impossible to trade - and you know it - and everyone who is involved in rural areas and not just - is aware of the fact that the products produced by the producers or processors of agricultural products, when they are sold in other undertakings in the process of relations created in the supply chain for these products, the buyers of these products are paying the producers or processors a great deal. This problem was called upon to address in 2017 this Parliament and introduced Article 3 within Law 4492/2017, in which purchasers of agricultural products and foodstuffs of fresh and vulnerable persons had to repay the goods within sixty days of the issue of the invoice and the delivery note. This, unfortunately, was not possible in the way provided for in this Act, because the law provided that all tariffs from all producers or all processors of fresh and vulnerable products should be sent to the administration, namely the Ministry of Rural Development. In other words, we are talking about millions of paper invoices, which should be sent. The proof of payment of these invoices should also be sent, which means either cheques, cheque bodies, balances of payments, proof of collection, and all of this should somehow be cross-checked and in this way the administration can see whether or not the law is being complied with. Therefore, as it was absolutely impossible to apply this article, then the then government came by amending the article in Law 4587/2018 and defined the construction of a platform and the launch of a digital service, which would collect this information, a cross-check would take place electronically and in this way the administration would see if the producer’s invoices were actually paid. However, this digital platform also had a problem, which did not work and still does not work, because it required producers to register on this digital platform - a line again all the products, the items they sold, their values, their discounts. Then, if there were differences, they would have to come into contact with the supplier, that is to say, with their client and cross-crossing and agree a line - the tariffs with values and discounts, which was not possible of course. That is why we are coming today and we are essentially authorizing the Minister for Rural Development and Food, when we see how the digital service works, when we see how it should be changed so that it can function without bureaucratic costs and in a way that easily demonstrates which tariffs have been paid and which is not, to start operating, of course, after the Minister for Rural Development's decision. Just to give you the size of the platform malfunction, it should be noted that about eighty thousand invoices have been registered in the course of the trial period, and from them they have been declared that only fifty-six have not been paid within the sixty days, which is what you understand - from the experience we have and from market knowledge - they are very little. It is very little these fifty-six invoices over the total of eighty thousand, which means that either the producers did not enter the platform and did not register the unpaid invoices on the platform, or that for other reasons this platform was not working. So we are now asking that this should be completed and then, by decision of the Minister for Rural Development, that this should work for the benefit of producers and farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u14	I would like to ask a question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u15	Here you go, Mr Vlavo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u16	Is the registration of these invoices compulsory for producers? Because, if it is not compulsory, anyone who dares and enters it will not go back to sell the same businessman again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Vlavo. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u18	At the moment in the optional process, the digital service test is not mandatory. Since the digital service and the platform works, we see that it works perfectly, then it will become compulsory of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Minister. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately the pathogens of the previous government continue. I remember when SYRIZA ruled how most of the New Democracy's headquarters screamed for the amendments. You do the same, Minister. And, unfortunately, I regret that you are talking about a reformist government when you are bringing amendments at the last minute and even amendments so photographic that you do not even have to say the name. You're bringing us amendments to Mount Athos. Because I have a special weakness on Mount Athos, because I often go and have special relations with Mount Athos, you photograph Martino. Why don't you say here in the amendment: 'We want to put Mr Martino on the table and we made an amendment specific to him'? I am honest with the New Democracy logic. You said, say, say, and today you repeat the same mistakes. I mean, man -- he's from what I know -- and he's old, I don't know if he's going to go at all, they want to put a sub-command to go to Mount Athos. Because you have not understood what Mount Athos means, I imagine, in the New Democracy, it is something very important, not only for our Orthodoxy, but also for our international relations. There are monasteries in other countries. Instead of putting a new one, a coffin, one with the appetite to really deal with the organization of Mount Athos in command, you go and put Martino the shipowner, because he is the shipowner, Martino, the best friend. Well, it's not working that way. You can't do business. So how do we work together seriously? We cannot cooperate, you can say that you want us to help in constructive dialogue, in the effort of the country, etc., when you are bringing me to the Martinian special amendment. I say this without, I repeat, having anything with man, his right to do what he has done in the past, I do not care about me, but what will Mr Martine offer Mount Athos? What? Does she have any theological knowledge? Does he know anything from the history of the area? Put someone else on! Why should you have someone save and well with photographic, late amendment? And she's not the only one. There's more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u21	I know it's your friend, Mr. Martin, Admiral, I know it. He's your friend. Well, enjoy him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u22	He's the best.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u23	He may be the most beautiful man, I don't care about myself, to keep him for you. It doesn't work for us. Because for us, Mount Athos is something quite different, Mr Levane, much more important than the public relations you at times do. Let's actually go. Let's go to the essentials. By a legal person governed by public law, you do so to a legal person governed by private law. Mr. Kikilis, these conversions have been made for CEDEFOP, so why do we have to set up some of our own children? Why is it private law? Tell me about it. Some place for this conversion to be based! Tell me why. Of course, I read through - and I heard all the speakers - that you are all talking about sensitive social groups. The difference of Greek Solution from your point of view is: you when you talk about sensitive groups you refer to the poachers, you call them refugees and immigrants, while for us sensitive social groups, Minister, they are disabled people, they are deaf people, they are Rafael, which we have all forgotten here, the little child who is struggling to survive for a vaccine that is very expensive, but it cannot be the Greek Parliament to help or the Ministry, it is all these things that concern the Greeks. Children with autism, deafness, these are the sensitive social groups, of the Greeks. The others, all the others, the refugees, as you tell them, are invaders, do not concern us. First the Greeks and then everyone else, if we can help the whole world. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] That's the logic. Like you, Minister, help your family first with your child or wife and then your neighbor, so we say: "First Greek and then the rest." The self-evident right to choose a family, a society, a nation to help its own individuals. Article 8: states 'direct contracts without tender in the event of urgent and unforeseen situations'. Who defines these? Who defines the urgency of a situation? Who? Can I talk to you? The party. The New Democracy is well suited. And I would like, Minister, at least when the presidents speak, not to be heard by the consultants. Thank you very much. Let's actually go. On page 105, Article 1, paragraphs 1.1. and 1.2., it is necessary: 'the benefit of the vulnerable groups of the population'. Here, basically on page 109, you confess that legal personality is changing in immigration, confessing to recruiting for poachers. And it is a story that European funds are being given. For when the Greek state hires these officials who will be for poachers, refugees and immigrants, the Greeks will be paid for, not for the European Union. Why did you feed a story with SYRIZA that the funds allocated to those who come here are from the European Union. It's not like that. Every day we discover - and with questions we ask the Minister of Finance - that 30%, 40% is the contribution of the state budget. The Greek pays for those who come here uninvited. That's what's bothering us. Now we're going to the anti-smoking. Here, my Minister, every bitter man laughs. I was listening to your rapporteur - a very good man is Mr Stefanades, an excellent gentleman, a good man and a good scientist - telling us about the eight million dead from smoking. We're totally in agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u24	Outside, it's true...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u25	I'll tell you what's going on abroad, I know it better than you, because I live here, but I know the outside. From the traffic accidents, we have dozens, millions of dead worldwide. What are you talking about, guys? Is it reasonable to say that because other people die, we prevent smoking? Is that what we're doing? You're wrong. Then because we have traffic accidents and we have hundreds of dead people, remove cars. It's the usual tactic to arrest the pistol, not the killer. Smoking is negative. I stress it, I say it, regardless of whether I'm a smoker or not. But you can't take repressive action to implement a law. You can't do it, guys. Understand it at last. Then there's this ridiculous thing. We are at a time when Europe legalises the hash to smoke where we like and go forbade cigarettes you here. What's the point of that? Don't you understand? It's a law in the Netherlands, gentlemen. Giorgos Papandreou said this here: “We all plant to smoke each one of us from a bacon.” He said it and he even says it now. I can tell you, therefore, that all these arguments do not act logically. I'm telling you that. You're actually going to make the citizen a rat of his fellow citizen. He says that you give the right to a cell phone, with a sms to say: "Stefanadis now smokes in Hippocrates". The other will say: 'No, Balaorito'. The policeman will run, to get 20%, to apply the law, the policeman who doesn't arrest the killers, who can't suppress crime, who doesn't have the prerequisites, doesn't have the guns, doesn't have the cars, doesn't have the tyres in his cars, doesn't have the logistics, chasing the smoker. Your logic is a little strange, not to say another word, because we are talking about democracy. The question of democracy is when we take a measure as parliamentarians or as government when you legislate, ask those concerned with the measure. People who have shops were asked if this measure harms them, yes or no? Oh, no. Did people ask if there are any ways? Oh, no. So what do we say? "You want to have a smoker shop? Hold it, bye. I'm glad to see you. You want them not to be smokers? Make it non-smoking." We're talking about the right to choose. You give rights of choice to LGBTKI, to trans people - and you do well - and you don't give the right to a shop to be smokers or non-smokers. What are these things, what are these logical? Do it like that, very simple. Why should you impose by a cloak and a law something that is captivating? I'll prove it to you because I'm saying that. I have a series of investigations in front of me since 2010. Pan-Hellenic Federation of Restaurant and Related Professionals, 40% drop in turnover. Ever since it was applied, 40 percent of the price drop. It is a post - and I put it in the Minutes - of your approved 'BIMA'. This is your newspaper, it's not ours or no one else. The "BIMA" is your "magaz". [[At this point the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What does it mean 40 percent drop of the cigarette? You don't get tax, you don't get VAT and you have a loss of revenue. These, Minister, are not 'I decide something that I like because the Prime Minister is an anti-smoking and athlete and he is a nice one'. And I see you guys the night you walk and gamble. I'm taking a walkway to my house every day, in the morning, but I don't quit smoking the others. I mean, it's not bad to be a sports guy. It's bad not to work a little bit to think there are others who want something else. We can't go to legislation on a bat. It's wrong. Now listen. 2007-2015. 7,000 pubs were closed in England. Here I have the post, the graphics from the OSCE. Seven thousand shops closed. So if 7,000 or 10,000 shops are closed in Greece, will you be satisfied? Do you know what a loss of revenue you'll have? Have you figured it out, have you counted it? [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I understand your anxiety about the health of the Greeks, Mr Stefanade. Of course, anxiety about those who commit suicide from the red loans, etc. It doesn't exist. Anguish is divisive here. We're fighting for smokers. For those who commit suicide for debts made by others, no one commits suicide or is sad. EC 11-1989, point Listen here. Anti-smoking in Europe. Here's what's going on in Belgium, Mr. Hatzidakis. It's not forbidden in bars and restaurants. In Bulgaria and France, catering and entertainment areas. Italy: Special smoking areas. Spain: Smoking sites. The Netherlands: Special places in amusement areas. So they're giving the shop the right to have a special smoker room. You say 'or smokers' or you will not smoke at all'. What's that logic? You're turning us into a seven-year-old, not to say another word. You say you become Europeans. Of course, we are the only country in the world that constantly invokes Europe, to become Europeans, but we will never become Europeans, because we have no European wages, no European benefits, no roads. We pay traffic charges and tolls at the same time. We're the only country we have tolled. We are the only country that we are not Europeans and yet you insist on saying that you are Europeans. How can you insist on being a European when you cannot provide the benefits of Europeans, the simple benefits for the citizen? These are all issues that need to be taken seriously. For us the anti-smoking must be voted down. We must give the shops the right to have a smoker's room - this is democracy - or in the end one shop, if it wants to be just smokers, to have a big sign that it is the smokers in here, so that the customer knows. You will create huge social conflicts. They'll be fired, waiters fired...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u26	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u27	No, sir. I'm not like you. You guys collect buffaloes. You're wrong. I say it because I know the economy. I know what you said. I heard you. You said we're going to pick up noodles from the stores. You're wrong. You're running around picking up pins, not me. I am a party president, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u28	You have the ear...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u29	I have both the ear and the tongue and the mind. That's our difference. I'm thinking, talking, and, most of all, I know what I'm saying. Why? Ask ten shopkeepers in your district. The same will be said of you: “Give me the right to have smokers or non-smokers. My inalienable right, why do you deprive me of it?" That's what I'm telling you, I'm not saying anything else. Your rapporteur is right to say that smoking poses health problems. He was talking about arteriosclerosis. The Minister's right. I know them, too. Cut the pork and the ribs for the heart and cholesterol? We're gonna cut those now. If it's for health and smoking, it's a heart problem, we can cut the ribs, guys. No more ribs, no more ribs. That doesn't make sense. I'm kidding. Mr. Levane, don't be like this. I can do a lot of that to you, too. Oh, no. I tell you that if you are invoking health, then and because of the wheels we will abolish cars. Inform, make smokers and non-smokers. Give the right to the shopper's ability. That's what I'm saying. I'm not telling you anything else. I'm not in favour of smoking. Everyone has the right to do whatever they want. I answered you, Mr Levane. You live in a country where most of the left tells you to legalise the hashish and smoke where we like it. Prohibition the cigarette? Okay. We have a different philosophy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u30	Do you smoke?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u31	I'm not hiding. Yeah. Not in front of you, though. I mean, let's get this straight. It's not a question of whether I smoke or you. The point is that our choices concern other people and the laws that we legislate in here also have an impact on society as a whole, not only on their health, but also on their economy and their pockets. If fifteen thousand waitresses are suddenly fired or fifteen thousand chefs or fifteen thousand people in these stores, what will happen? Where will they get a job? That's what I'm saying. We need to take it seriously. Let's go to the rest. Let's go to Syria a little. As you can see, friends and friends, the Americans cleared them. How many times do I tell you not to be sure America will help you? How many times have I said that no one's a friend to anyone? How many times have I told you that we need to reorder our policy, because in the Middle East it seems that Russia is winning from developments? We are monodimensionally trapped in American politics, and we will be the ones to get out of the losers. I've been saying this for too long. And something you forget in here, because the government and the rest here in Lausanne are invoking the Treaty of Lausanne: the Treaty of Lausanne and de facto and de jure, following the invasion of the Turks in Syria, was abolished, gentlemen. That's what Erdogan wants to do to eliminate all the conditions. The Treaty of Lausanne is also about us and it is about the whole region. So we must seriously see that our friends and allies, the Westerners, do not support the massacre of the Kurds by the Turks. They're crying mothers. Kids are being slaughtered, lamented. I'm telling you that. I saw the mother with the dead child in her hands, and I was angry by the apathy of Europeans and us of Greeks and Americans and Russians yet again. Why isn't anyone talking? Because everyone's in the game, and when I say all, I mean all of them. The worst thing he didn't say is that, among the Turkish fighters, they're Pakistani. There is a Pakistani Brigade, which fights on the side of the terrorists against the Kurds. We have filled Greece with Pakistanis. We don't know who they are, we don't know what we're doing. We heard the Pakistani President supporting Turkey's invasion of Syria. No one's talking about it. We've filled Greece with people we don't know where they came from, we never checked who they are and they're coming from here and there. To avoid pushing time, I'll tell you five things very seriously. Turkey never leaves anything they own with guns. It's her strategy. Mr. Kostarakos said so yesterday. I heard him with my ears. Turkey is also planning a long-term plan. The problem with Greek foreign policy is that you have no plan. We don't have red lines. From the start, I say we think and decide what the red line is in our country, which defines our red line and of course the Prime Minister will stop on Thursday, Friday to meet the parties' leaders and on Monday night to blackmail people. So it says: "Election law. If I don't find out, I'll go to elections." This is blackmail. Extortion and election law do not consent to the Greek Solution. If the Prime Minister of the country wants to speak seriously, to talk seriously, but with blackmails and fake dilemmas you can't engage in politics. I'm telling you this sincerely because I believed that afternoon that there was going to be a bridge of understanding. But blackmailing the rest of the parties, blackmailing the Greek people with double elections, because you want to change the electoral law, that's what it's called partitioning. And that partisanism, I can't accept it. Also, to close down here, the cry of Mayor East Samos, did you hear her today? Did anyone hear it? He says: “Migrants have had uprising. They approached the city with stones and wood. Schools are closed." Friends and friends, colleagues close the NGOs. Mercy! Close the NGOs. There was a revolution in Samos. People were burned. They were slaughtered with each other. Do you understand who we're carrying in here? The vice mayor says so. I'm not saying it. That's what the Mayor of Eastern Samos says. It burns the island, burns Moria, burns Leros and you carry them to Greece, carry them here. Of course, we have a whole, friends and friends, a report by the President of the ONNED Pentelis, Mrs Fai Nikotopoulos. She had also happened in New Smyrna to take a picture with the Prime Minister, if I'm not mistaken. From his random pictures! What did the girl say? He said the self-evident thing about Penteli. The ones that apply under the law. Not that they don't want people, but that they don't want us to fill Greece with people who are invaders. And good for her to stand up. I will be there tomorrow at Amalia Fleming, as I was in Samos, as I went to Lero, as I went to Kilkis, Kavala and Serres. Go and see how these hot spots are. 'Neither closed nor open'. Chrysochoid said so. There's no closed- he says-- he says we can do it anyway. Yesterday she said so. All of this shows, then, that on paper you are planning everything. You have no plan to deal with this problem and the problem is specific. I close my borders, close the NGOs and push back if necessary, as the Japanese do, as other countries do. Why? I don't understand that? Because the international circumstances say so? You are, unfortunately, going to say it directly, Greek-phobic and you are racist towards the Greeks. That's what bothers me. You give it all to the poachers, to all those who come here: money, allowances. I have a list of what they get. You'll have fun with the numbers: 300 euros, 400 euros, take cards, take money. They'll come here all the time. Cut the benefits. What's simpler? I'll close because I'm abusive of time. I had a lot to say. I'm going to say something that bothered me too much like a human being. Tell me: Who make heroes in Greece? How does the New Democracy allow this? They want to rename a street on Zack Kostopoulos Street. You're laughing, gentlemen, but it's a laughing story. Let me get this straight. How do we make idols? How do we make heroes? Is that right? I ask you: What did this from the child for Greece, anyway? Monument of racism Zak Kostopoulos and street Zak Kostopoulos. What for? An Katsifa street you don't have. We didn't do that for that kid murdered by the Pakistani people in Philippup. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] For the children who were burned alive in "Marfin" you didn't dare as New Democracy do something because the fake left was involved. Why does it save and well should these left-wing gentlemen win and have a hegemonic position and have a fearful syndrome of patriotism? I don't understand that. Who's this Zach Kostopoulos? Honest lad, yeah, but what did he do about Greece? How do we rename streets? We can also rename any other Erdogan road in Greece. Jesus Christ and Mary, that is! Of course, the kid who came down to pick up the camera from his car and murdered him a few years ago, and we don't remember that either. They all forgot about him, because they're all Greek. That's what's bothering us. That's what bothers me, that unfortunately if you're murdered and you're Greek, you're disposable. If anything happens to someone who's one of these teams, LGBTQ, etc., you become a hero. No, gentlemen, the heroes give the blood for Greece, the homeland, the common good, morality, the progress of the country. The rest is fairy tales. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, with your well-known heat, when you speak within Parliament, you have raised many issues. I cannot comment on matters which are not the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. I am obliged, however, to say three things about matters which are the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. First of all, with respect for personal data, I do not want to name a child. I shall, however, speak of the Supreme Health Council, because I am sure you, too, will agree with me and all my colleagues on how important and serious it is. Scientists such as Mr Stefanidis, similar to all the specialities of medicine in Greece, make up the Higher Health Council, which is recommended to the EEAS on the basis of the advice of doctors and after considerable scientific work and effort on what is compensated, how it is compensated and where. Let us see what his role is and how we must all shield him and support him, because he is an independent body, which does not have and must have no connection with the relevant head of the Ministry of Health. Proof that Mr. Iaru, who is the head of the Supreme Health Council was not appointed by me, Mr. President, was not appointed by the former Minister, Mr. Xanthos. He was appointed to the birth of the Supreme Health Council before us and we maintained him. We have kept all scientists in the committees, by specialty of ten, twelve scientists. They're independent parties. They shall investigate all medical evidence and scientific evidence and be substantiated. In my opinion, their decision must commit the relevant Minister for Health, Prime Minister, and the whole of the country's policy. Why if that does not happen, Mr President, what will happen? I may be a doctor, an orthopaedic surgeon. The next Minister of Health, however, can be a lawyer, journalist, architect, engineer, anything. Are we really empowered to decide on the right of a child's life scientist to decide what is appropriate treatment for him? I don't know what the right treatment for pediatric neurology is. I'm telling you, honestly. People searched for this incident - and for all incidents, over time - at the pan-European pediatrics sessions, spoke to colleagues abroad, found the bibliography and finally made a decision. I support them scientifically, Mr President, and we must all support them scientifically. It will collapse the ESS if we go through the process of overcoming science and allowing the right and left to leak that the decision of the High Health Council in question is economic or non-economic. It is not a financial issue, because the Higher Health Council has decided on several occasions and has made decisions on more than EUR 5 million, EUR 1 million, EUR 2 million. I am sure, Mr President, that you will agree with me on this. I'm sure of it. I would like to ask and this has been respected by the overwhelming majority of colleagues, and I thank you all, I very much appreciate, to ask you to defend this independent scientific body. If that's not there, there's no NSA and there's no justice. Because at that time we are giving the right to any political leader to come and decide on such a decision or on no scientific basis. Then we really become a jungle. In the next few years, I will bring in a legislative initiative which no Minister for Health will be able to intervene in the decisions of the Higher Health Council. It can't be done anyway now, but it can't be institutionalised by law. I think it's crucial, it's important. We're entering a new era. In the new era there are more modern medicines. There are gene therapies, there are modern studies, there are university professors, there are research. It's very important that we let these scientists do their job. I think that this is how we shield justice against everyone. Because behind every incident, Mr President, which comes out in the light of publicity, there are thousands every week who do not come out in the light of publicity. And all these incidents and all these people are untreated and all these children need justice and treatment based on the scientific determination that this committee gives. I'm finishing up with this organization, the ETA. Indeed, I left the name given by the Qualified Opposition: National Agency for Public Health. Mr President, all over the world these bodies are private legal entities. Because they're handling the emergency. And to handle the emergency, one must be able to intervene. If the emergency is for Greeks in our schools and something happens in the pre-repeal structures for refugees or immigrants, I personally do the same. We shield the organization by suggesting that no recruitment can be made to OSH of regular staff, civil servants, administrative staff, etc. off-shore SAPA. None! And we accept the suggestion, as with the auxiliary doctors, that there should be electronic platforms through which we can get nursing staff, medical staff or paramedics in an emergency if we can do this. He was a legal person governed by public law in the previous administration, without organograms, without having been implemented and an incident, Mr President, which, at the theoretical level, dispersed the news of having an emblem. These vials had to be sent to Thessaloniki. With this structure, Mr President, they could not be sent to Thessaloniki. We made our pockets get the vials to Thessalonica, to see if this incident had or had no Ebola. I think it is crucial to understand that CDCs around the world are legal entities of private law. I have received the contributions of colleagues so that they can be shielded and there is no...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u34	Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u35	...in the way it works. Once understood, I would like you to contribute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u37	Wait a minute, Mr. President, please. We cannot continue the procedure for President-in-Office for a long time. Mr Stefanadis has asked for his personal speech and I cannot give him that. Would you like, Mr President, to hear Mr Stefanade?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u38	I will not speak again, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u39	Well, you have the floor, but please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u40	It's about Rafael. The rest of me accept them from the Minister for the private person who says, and so on, although in Germany that is not the case, because I know what is going on there with the health system. So since we talked about this kid, let me say this: I don't care what any committee says, believe me. She's a Greek man, she's a soul. I don't care no matter how much the millions cost. It's none of my business. I didn't want to talk about this kid, I didn't do it for that reason, but I want us all to be aware. Why should Hassan, Ibrahim, Mehmet be helped and the Greeks go through such a process of committees? Don't do it like that, because there's no committee over there. There are the NGOs who are running and pressing for the job to be done. We're talking about Greek man, you guys, about Rafael! Find a way to help him. My technocratic ministers are none of my business. We're all parents to see it human. I leave the rest of it in everyone's judgment. Millions of euros are spent from here and there, it is not so difficult. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Stefanades has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u42	Yes, Mr President, just for a minute. I wanted to tell the President that air is a good thing for the preservation and creation of life, and in any case it is the only catastrophic six to smoke that pollutes the air. The non-smoker is therefore forced - the evidence is overwhelming - to breathe smoking and we cannot go along with the trajectory or other infringements. The second thing I would like to say, and I conclude, is this: the President asked if we were to consult the shopkeepers. Yes, in two meetings of law-processing sessions, they came and said their views. Our view is that the horizontal application of the law also protects unfair competition. Because there's no good or bad shopkeeper. Shoppers said “we have a sign that says “it is forbidden” and we rest”. It's not like that. Because the person next door will allow smoking, so unfair competition will blossom and gigantic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr Stefanides. Mr. Pulas has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, I am very honoured that in my first speech in Parliament I recommend the Change Movement to the first draft law which the Ministry of Health brings to the vote. As a doctor in the RIS at the General Hospital of Argos, I am aware of the daily struggle that doctors and nurses give from the on-call organization to the search for the medicine over time with a sick patient. The battle that is being fought is lasting and psycho-corruption. The Ministry's first bill gives you the mark of government priorities in the field of health. I am not pleased that you are starting to legislate on matters of secondary importance. Organizing conversions, changes in faces and fragmentary arrangements were assessed by your Government as urgent issues to be regulated while the health area is boiling. I would be more optimistic if you announced a national dialogue as a whole for the reform of public health. The citizens expect you to make areas for modernising and aligning it with the current needs of the population, perhaps displeasing the few, but not favouring the many, without prospects, in bills - brooms, without consistency and with concise parliamentary debates under the pressure of time. As far as the EGE is concerned, we have been placed in the committee and we have no objection to its reintroduction to a legal person under private law. The mismanagement, the dismantling of public money and the use of funds in directions other than their aims are not legal problems for us. They are primarily problems of mentality, political choices, the placement of ineffective persons in positions of responsibility and impunity. Let's be honest. If it does not change the management model of the organisation, if it does not change persons and things, if it does not establish a serious and unprecedented management control, if there is no political will for the organisation to function according to its purpose and not as a long hand financing of other purposes, the change will not come. We will always be in the same place and discuss the same things without any result. This draft law does not bring about any substantial changes in the functioning of the EGE. The most important is the Ministry's intention to check the composition of the board of directors. The Minister for Health shall decide on the President, the Vice-Presidents, on the basis of blurred criteria, and the six members of the Management Board, without any criteria. As good as we want to be, shadows are created by the lack of a sufficient number of qualifications. Their existence becomes more urgent than that it is not provided for the establishment of a Scientific Council within the EGE managed by qualified scientists and established infectious scientists, as is done in similar European organisations. We do not want to believe that these positions will be a pretext for party'members', unqualified and even without any guarantee of efficiency and effective exercise of their role. At this point, the expansion of the conclusion of a contract of efficiency and the members of the EGE administration, such as the managers of hospitals, could improve its operational and operational effectiveness. With regard to the administrative structure of the EGE, a massive and difficult structure is created, which increases its annual expenditure by EUR 288 000. This complex organisation is following the model of the state of staff, which we very much doubt will be able to deliver. Similar shapes are rapidly degraded, due to unavoidable duplication of responsibilities, bureaucracy, incitement to function and inability to take decisions that accompany their operation. So for us, the proper functioning of the EGE goes through the political will for good administration and the change of attitude. As to the provisions of the anti-smoking law, we agree. After all, it was the one who voted for the first time severely anti-smoking legislation. However, we are not happy with its implementation. It goes without saying that it must be accompanied by a long and targeted anti-smoking campaign to create an anti-smoking attitude, especially among young people. It is also impossible to place all responsibility for law enforcement on the Greek police. We should ask ourselves, as far as the conditions, conditions and adequate staff are concerned, to take up this responsibility as well. There is a risk that we will be ineffective in hunting the gum if no national plan is drawn up at the same time to create an anti-smoking culture over time. With regard to the regulation of the outstanding debts of the EEA and the hospitals, we would like a more permanent solution. We cannot ignore the fact that the ERC is also concerned with its administrative staff. It is not possible for hospitals to operate with existing administrative deficiencies in staffing and infrastructure. The award of the accounting of hospitals to external accounting offices has in practice been proven to be problematic and cost-effective. Recruitment of new scientists to provide adequate staff for hospital accounts will cost less to the public, in conjunction with more efficient administration. It would help to avoid the creation ofrrential debts and unnecessary judicial claims. As far as the EMCDDA is concerned, we believe it is in the wrong direction. The EMCDDA cannot be degraded to an address of the Ministry, without operational readiness and unable to respond to the emergency and emergency situations. The EMCDDA is turning into a body with too many responsibilities and with great difficulty to monitor the country's health situation. The best operational coordination, which you do through the EAW, will be difficult to achieve without new recruitments, without the operation of the hundred and fifty beds of ICM missing from the system, without the increased number of ambulances in traffic and without the Operational Coordination Centre for Extraordinary Situations. Finally, simplifying the recruitment procedures for auxiliary staff is a temporary solution. Temporary solutions, however, like ESDP and OAED recruitment, are aspirin to the severely ill. He needs brave blood donation of public health, with young scientists and paramedical staff in existing vacant organic positions. This will renew the already old human resource serving in the ESS, with scientists who will bring the appetite for work and offering, but also useful changes, so that public health can be reconstructed. Last I left the complex but complex field of medicine. For decades the system has been completely intact, without a security margin. From the EUR 1,278 million in 2000, in the 5-year period 2004-2009, public pharmaceutical expenditure was launched. Only in 2009 reached 6.5 billion. The measures taken by PASOK as a government since 2010, such as e-prescription, the pricing of original medicines on the basis of the three lowest European Union prices, the prescription of the active substance, stable price reductions, the introduction of a closed budget of pharmaceutical expenditure and the establishment of clawback and rebate, in 2012 decreased to 3,6 billion and in 2014 to 2,562 billion. Between 2016 and today, trends have been growing. Of course, there are several other reasons why the drug expenditure is going up. The Committee on Pharmaceutical Innovation and the Price Negotiation Committee are in the right direction, but they have not been fully developed and have not worked rapidly to deliver the expected results. They could not, in other words, retain the pharmaceutical expenditure, which in 2018 for category 1A medicines exceeded by 68 million the EEA budget, while for this year it is estimated that it will exceed 103 million. There is no question that the measures taken so far to curb drug expenditure are not enough. They are fragmentary and are not part of a single and integrated strategy. With regard to the clearing of clawback with research expenditure, we consider it necessary to assess whether they really contribute to research and the development of investment projects for services and production lines. It is also crucial to clarify that the amounts that are offset will not be deducted from profits as depreciation. Otherwise, we will have introduced a double favourable treatment for pharmaceutical industries, which may be disproportionate to the expected benefits. At this point we will reintroduce our proposal to reduce the contribution to the medicines of the insured, which we had first formulated in November 2018. I would like to remind you that PASOK as a government in the most critical period of crisis, from 2010 to 2012, has managed to maintain the drug-insured participation of 0.10% and 25%. Unfortunately, in recent years citizens have been constantly paying more than their drug pocket. It is characteristic that in 2018 the citizens only paid EUR 1.64 billion for drugs themselves. Of these, 625 million were paid as part of the public non-survivorial pharmaceutical expenditure, i.e. for medicines compensated by the EEA. For medicines not compensated, a total of EUR 1.15 billion was spent. Of these, 265 million concerned so-called non-prescribed medicines, 115 million are those on the negative list, which are not compensated, and 635 million on prescription medicines, but which the patient chose to pay entirely from the pocket. This amount relates to medicines costing an average of EUR 7, while a visit to the doctor for prescription would cost about EUR 10. What does that look like? That the patient now passes the stage of the medical visit and pays the drugs out of his pocket. If these amounts are added to the increase in health contributions, then it is clear that we are actually heading for annulment of social security. Today we have the opportunity to improve the situation in a fair manner, for the benefit of the low-paid and low-paid people. We therefore call on you to abolish the contribution of 6% of health care imposed on supplementary pensions and to reduce by 50% the participation in medicines for workers and pensioners, with a monthly net income of less than or equal to 700 euros, just as we proposed in November 2018. There is no doubt that the drug sector needs a more serious approach. The question is whether there is a political will to regulate the medicine definitively. Create something long, bold, with national consensus and the standards of developed European countries. Even if interests are affected, national consensus will be a shield of the country at all kinds of pressure. If you make such a brave decision as a government, it is for us all to join the national interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr. Poulla. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, thank you. I am making two legislative improvements very briefly. One is in Article 23(2) for the evaluation procedure. This amendment relates to the medicine, as we have said, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, which talks about generics and about which generics they are entering the negotiating committee or not. In addition, on the basis of the debate we have had in committees, Article 38(3) on public-law legal persons and private-law legal persons, following on from what has been discussed in the committees on private information campaigns for the public, namely that public-law legal persons and private-law persons subsidised will not participate in these campaigns, for the sake of transparency. I am tabling the legislative amendments and following them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u47	Minister, will you table amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u48	They're already signed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres of the Parliament, since they participated in the educational program "The King and the Revolution" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, thirty-one students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st General School of Painters. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Lambroulis from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. With the proposed arrangements of the draft law on various issues, the political direction, which, on the one hand, concerns State support measures, uncovered by pharmaceuticals, health entrepreneurs and, on the other hand, provisions relating to the adaptation of the State and its mechanisms, in order to implement more effectively the policy of minimum benefits, the policy of recompense and the reduction of costs, while ensuring cheap health and other personnel. This is a policy which serves the misleading account of the 'growth for all' of the Government of New Democracy, as did the previous SYRIZA government with the 'fair growth', two accounts of a single strategy to serve competitiveness and profitability of business groups. Thus, the direction of this bill not only resembles the measures promoted by the previous government, but which - more and more indiscriminate - do not dissociate the core of policy that has been promoted and promoted. Thus, the main difference in the government’s draft law from the previous SYRIZA law as regards the EGE is that it will be a legal entity governed by private law and not a legal entity governed by public law. The content, direction, funding, etc. It remains almost the same before and now, since it accepts and supports the conditions for the establishment and operation of this organisation, in the context of its general health policy, with its business features and the commercialisation of the services provided. So this body, regardless of its nature - public law or private law - has operated and will operate with their strengthened private-sector terms, on the one hand, sticking to the market through corporate responsibility, financing from the sale of services and saying, and on the other, it will be used as a body to strengthen these characteristics in public health units too. Of course, when this organisation is planned to operate with these characteristics and in a more general socio-economic environment characterised by entrepreneurship and competitiveness, conditions are objectively created for smaller or larger aberrations. The most fundamental and negative result, however, is that, within these conditions, we cannot talk about the functioning and supply of such an organisation, which serves to prevent and address the people's health needs, without relating to the level and competences of the workers in this body, of course. Of course, there is no relationship between the EGE, whether a legal person is baptized or a public legal person, with the operation of a public health agency, which must play its part, which must be based on adequate state health structures at all levels, within an exclusively state and free health system. The provisions on medicinal products are the most important chapter in which the nature of the development in favour of business groups and in particular the pharmaceutical industry is reflected. On the one hand, we have continued the policy of strengthening the pharmaceutical industry and the free market in the pharmaceutical sector, by removing regulations that hamper competition between groups - a lower price set - but that does not mean lowering private spending, that is, what the world has paid and will pay. Thus, while speaking in Article 21, for example, to offset automatic reimbursement with expenditure on research or development, the New Democracy Government also gives another gift to the pharmaceutical workers, showing just the sign of growth for all, following the previous policies carried out by the previous governments. Thus, in addition to excessive tax evasion of research and development costs and expenditure on investment projects, the amount of automatic repayment will now be reduced. On the other hand, we have continued our policy of limiting public health spending in order to ensure so-called 'development measures', tax exemptions and subsidies for business groups. Apocalyptic is Article 23, specifying the criteria and the assessment methodology, which cost-effectiveness and budget impact dominate as key criteria for the assessment of medicinal products and their inclusion in the list of EEIG compensations. These criteria will determine the clinical benefit, i.e. on the basis of a reactive comparison not of the effectiveness and possible complications, but of the cost and burden of the budget from the diseases treated, compared to the cost of treatment. At the same time, the orientation, like the previous governments, remains constant for the use of anti-scientific protocols to ensure the cost-cutting and compliance with the closed budgets of the EEAS. Of course these provisions largely include - and we also told the committee - the provisions of SYRIZA Government No 4512/2018, with individual amendments to the procedures or, if you like, to the composition of individual committees. These are, of course, changes which in no way necessitate, but contribute to deepening the reactionary axis for our people and the drug part. With regard to the provisions on smoking, this is indeed an existing problem that needs to be addressed, a problem complex with social and economic causes, but also an impact on the creation of incorrect standards, which are reproduced and promoted by the values of this system, especially youth, such as that of adulthood, proof of freedom, etc. At the same time, however, bodies of the perceptions of the injury caused by smoking - and they rightly say it - separate drugs, for example, from hard and soft, even modernising their so-called science with the so-called 'decrease of the damage', promoting use in a supervised manner by the state itself. Of course we don't make a setback. We agree with the restriction of smoking places, but at the same time we consider it necessary for the State itself to take measures to support the conscious choice and rejection of smoking, especially from youth. The relevant articles of the bill dominate the element of prohibition, police measures and fines. It is missing or limited to the level of some stimulus to stop smoking all this scientific part and infrastructure, which, under the responsibility of the State, would enable the problem to be realised and support the individual effort of the smoker to stop it and not to be dependent on individual responsibility and cost. For example - and we have said so in committee - it is well known that, until now, treatment, i.e. medicines that are being used, is not covered by the State and is at least costing - from EUR 250 to EUR 300 per month. How will the conditions of smoking be created in a person who experiences unemployment, tolerance? We're talking about social and economic causes, factors that push him many times to prefer cigarettes even if he doesn't have money to buy. With fines, are we going to deal with these problems? But, as for the smoker, the state does not take any measures to support him, especially by addressing the factors that are pushing him into smoking, with effects on both children and non-smokers, respectively, and on families with children and parents do not smoke, for example, the state does not even guarantee them, for example, in many cases even a pediatrician in public health establishments. In a question we tabled - it was postponed because of a debate on the bill - we set out one of the thousands of examples of problems due to the shortages in the Paediatric Clinic at the General Trikala Hospital, which is not working 15 days a month anymore. Of course, the involvement of the Government in the issue of smoking is not an originality. Its basis lies in the same direction as the European Union, which has assessed the burden of the budgets on cancer, as well as smoking, on lost workers because of health problems, on the impact on development, precisely what we say on the capitalist economy. From this point of view, it is concerned with the problem and it seeks to limit it, particularly on the basis of individual responsibility, because this corresponds to the general policy of the European Union and the governments, of course, to measures that do not bear on the state budget. The question, in our view, is the individual effort to stop smoking, health care, etc. join the collective mass struggle to reclaim what is needed, which will universally promote the level of health and life of the people, which neither the current government, despite its declarations, can guarantee for the people. As regards the EAEC and EAEC provisions, they are structural provisions. Even if issues are improved in relation to the performance and coordination of the services involved, they will not have a significant effect on the needs of the people, both in emergency pre-medical care and in public hospital care. This is because the government's policy is in line with the objectives of capitalist development, which require the underfinancing of the public health system and the implementation of all sacrifices to the anti-grass budget targets, which result in huge deficits in infrastructure, personnel, equipment, in the EAW, in intensive care units, in hospitals by extension and in primary health care. It is precisely because of this development that any final projects will be improved, but in application they will be an empty letter. This was also the main problem raised by politics and the previous government. In other words, the delegation of the operational proficiency check of public hospitals to the EAW, with regard to on-calls and ICUs, means development of the required infrastructure, their equipment and their staff. So when all this is contrary to the policy of cuts in social people's needs, it is not on the government's side at least that. Thirdly, strong provisions are the part of the adaptation and direction of the organization to the level of the ministry and the CSCE in the so-called 'extreme situations' throughout the so-called 'political protection', mass disasters, fires, earthquakes, floods, epidemics, etc. There's got to be preparation? Of course you do. There must be planning, of course, logistical infrastructures, etc., which, as mentioned above, we have serious doubts as to whether they will have a substantial effect on the defence of popular needs in all these areas that I have mentioned. We say this because the state is not neutral and independent of the development policy for business groups. It is deeply classic, which means that civil protection does not identify or prioritise people's protection. Because if he had it - and this is not about the mandate of a government - there would be no, for example, the dead in Eye or the problems and malfunctions of health establishments in such a period of emergency or catastrophe, as you say. It would not, for example, be a request for a public hospital in Eastern Attica, which does not exist. Neither. Perhaps, as you all know, the last tragic event with the woman who lost her life would happen, because the heart surgery clinic in Patras is not working. In addition, however, both the government and the other urban parties are exposed to the people and to their protection against emergencies, after they take the lead, so that the country will enter deeper into the boulder of imperialist competitions. They give everything to take part in the rampage of Greek business groups, when, together with the packages of anti-grass measures, they expose the people to serious risks and others, which is at least hypocrisy to attempt to translate this policy and measures in favour of people's protection. Because objectively, the design and adaptation of the state mechanism has as a priority and hierarchy the defence of this policy, which includes the adaptation of the health system and, consequently, the crucial area of emergency medicine. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the F Vice-President of the Parliament is being alarmed.]] Mr President, please give me some extra time. I shall refer to a few articles from the other provisions at the end of the bill. With regard, for example, to Article 28, we support the repayment of hospital due, with the corresponding funding from the State budget, which is not guaranteed by this provision. Look at it, we said it in committee too. While the provision refers to non-payment due to irregularities, it requires suppliers only to produce the invoice. Thus, even the negative conditions referred to in the Article on repayment, which are set out in the provision, will be certified that they do not exist simply with a responsible statement from the supplier. Otherwise, both the New Democracy and the other parties, when they are in opposition, raise issues of scandals, irregularities and much more. Article 37 for subsidiary staff lays down the way in which the famous pool of candidates other than doctors, from which they will be selected, is to work as ancillary workers. It is a copy of previous laws, which introduce and broaden the number of temporary workers, with even lower rights and remuneration, who are changing between temporary work and unemployment, ensuring for the State - and its budget, of course - that these workers will not be costed, since they will be paid out of the revenues of public health units, from the sale, that is, of their jobs, of their services, of patients and insurance funds. We think - and this is how it is, in fact - that these workers cover the permanent needs of health units and sometimes the 'fighting' among other urban parties, when it comes to promoting anti-grassroots policies, are transformed into a peaceful family co-operation and consensus. Why else does the scheme mean, for example, subsidiarity, which, in fact, has been applied and supported by both the New Democracy and SYRIZA and, of course, by KINAL, which owns the measure's copyright? The problems of patients and health workers are not, however, equal to unemployment and temporary work with lists, working tanks. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] We claim, both as a party and within the movement, the conversion of all these flexible working relationships, subsidiary and goes on to say on the basis of permanent, full-time and, of course, the abolition of all flexible forms of work. Mr President, with this on the basis of all the above, we are voting against the bill in principle. Of course, there are some provisions that we shall vote on and others we shall vote against. We will obviously also have the possibility of a second reading, because we also have the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, I would like the floor when the rapporteurs are finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u53	I will give you the floor when the rapporteurs are finished. The reason is the special speaker from the Greek Solution Mrs Maria Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, while respecting this House and the time, I declare that, if necessary, I shall also use the time of my dentistry. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law of the Government on health, which, despite the government's announcements and the Minister's own role in the prevention and treatment of public health, is far from being significantly removed from a genuine and universal approach to health problems. It comes to cover a number of problematic situations, which will be dealt with from the point of view, from the point of view of the lack of the requirements of the times and the requirements for the coming, that is, for what they already are, but also for what they are expected to come. The Minister of Health, both as a doctor and at the same time as a politician, is the one who knows all the structures, conditions and paths of the health sector very well. We would therefore expect, Minister, from the explanatory statement in the draft law to answer questions and not to be given thoughts and questions. Because, Minister and ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, which you are going to ratify the draft law, there is insufficient justification for voting on this law, because the explanatory statement is not a recital, but a description of ideas and articles to be voted on. In addition, major questions arise from reading the draft law under discussion. We, as a Greek Solution, are very concerned about the final result of this legislative initiative, and we are not in doubt at all about the government's good intentions in the Ministry of Health. We cannot say, of course, that we are opposed to all the thoughts of this bill. We would be hypocritical and short-sighted if we did. As Opposition we honor and respect our institutional role, to control the parliamentary intentions of the Coupling, to control government practices, but also to seek to introduce crucial predictions for the protection of Greek citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, we can only offer what we can offer. And we can offer what we have after our needs and needs have been met. And even if there's not enough to be given, as genuine Greeks, we'll give it from our post. However, it is not possible for the recipients to have more and better than the donors. We cannot accept a change in the quality of our lives in the interests of domestic and non-domestic. Health as a supreme good should be protected, promoted and pursued without conditions to all suffering and with a need, in emergencies, for regular treatment of incidents and, of course, prevention. It is inconceivable for a doctor to set conditions to help a patient, but it is equally unthinkable for the welfare state to act as a digest for all disease and all posterior counselling. It is incomprehensible for the welfare state to become the weak link and the Trojan horse to alter the confidence of the Greeks in their own homeland, who must still be able to recognize it. The welfare state in Greece is and must exist as part of the Greek state, but by system, programme and efficiency, depending on the population to which it is addressed. This draft law provides for the establishment and replacement of the National Public Health Agency by a homogeneous body, but not a legal entity governed by public law, but by private law. There is no reference in the explanatory statement to the need for this change. At first, we could not understand why it is being done. However, by reading the report on the assessment of the consequences of arrangements, the need is created in the newly enhanced form, among other things, for the benefit of vulnerable population groups such as Roma, refugees, migrants, to manage the health coverage of refugees and migrants. So, what exactly should we be afraid of? Serious infectious and infectious diseases due to insufficient control and entry into our country? Is that why the private body's head is demanding? Has any attempt to restructure the public and our only hope now become a private person? So the government plans to create new structures to welcome the planned migration flow. Really, how many structures must be created in order to manage these influxes of poachers, which, if anything, should be categorised and divided into groups so that we can control who and how many have a right to care, except, of course, the heavy and urgent incidents? To know which group they belong to and in which care framework they fall under. How will we manage Moria when we cannot serve Greek taxpayers themselves, our fellow citizens? What about Panagiotis - Rafael, who suffers from spinal type 1 muscle atrophy, and his application was rejected for treatment in America? A new structure, however, set up this time by the ordinary Greek citizens, replaces and pays for the inability of the state by denying self-evidently to its citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u55	Your president didn't hear him?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u56	I heard him and I'll go on...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u57	If you heard him, what are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u58	...and I speak with so much bitterness, because I have personal experience, having lost my little Peace in 2008, Mr. Minister, twelve years old, suffering from the same illness of Panagiotis - Rafael. I assure you, although a gynecologist, I'm very aware of this pathology. I continue, as far as solidarity is concerned. Europe must take serious responsibility for the responsibilities, which is entangled in Greece by immigrants and which closes the borders, so that they will necessarily remain in our country, a country with citizens who have been suffering for many years and suffer in their daily lives the terrible disastrous consequences of the economic crisis. Let there finally be proper priorities, since, as provided for by the Geneva Treaty, Greece is not the first country to host refugees. The examination of asylum, which is being carried out on humanitarian grounds by our country, without this being imposed by the same treaty, i.e. it is optional, can also be done by any other European country which is proportionately and compulsoryly welcomes them. These are positions that your Government must support in Europe, if we are an equal member, so that Greece recovers its dignity and due respect. Let us give the Greeks the place they deserve, because Greece first belongs to its citizens, namely the Greeks. It is not just immigration, of course, the cause of EAEC aid. We all know and should be aware that this change will also bring about a series of flexible, for example, working relationships in the organization, which are not about the rights of existing workers, but about the prerequisites for the recruitment of the new partners of the organization, but also, of course, to the managers of the organisation, but also to other procedures and functions. With regard to new partners, the President of the Board of Directors is stipulated. the new organisation should hold a degree and the two Vice-Chairmen should hold a degree in health science, postgraduate and with experience in the field of public health. In other words, although reasonable and expected, the vice-chairmen should also have knowledge and expertise, the head of the Board of Directors. the new organisation will only have one simple degree in the draft law and without the necessary experience. It seems that it is rather a friendly tactic of the government in its positions - keys to the long-term health sector to choose to place individuals, yes, although undeniable and worthwhile qualifications, which, however, come from other sectors than health. I am referring, of course, to the recent case of the appointment of the current Commissioner for the Health Region of Attica. Let us assume that, Minister, the manager, as you have said, can also be outside the health care area, although, in my opinion, he should be primarily a scientist of recognised prestige, coming from the health sector, but not have the minimally increased qualifications, which, elsewhere and for smaller business projects, is a demand. Also, the remuneration of members of the Board of Directors. I would like to ask the President-in-Office if he is prepared to give us an answer. In addition, we also have the expenses for the remuneration of the Heads of the Newly Informatics and Electronic Health Directorate, as well as the extra costs in the state budget, both for logistics and for the establishment of staff personalities of the EDUC, if there are no relevant organic posts. With all this, the budget is increasing. With regard to the creation of a Research Fund Special Account, the amounts allocated will cover all the costs of any nature in the context of actions. For example, it is understood that for seminars, conferences and services that are relevant to their purpose, it will be possible to allocate funds that are very little to do with research and which should be what is intended. In general, references to any costs and related services give the room for waste of money without substantial counterproduct and without control. That is, instead of keeping the financial control, we leave open windows in the law. I return to Article 8, which states that direct contracts may be awarded without tendering in the event of urgent and unforeseen situations. What is defined as urgent, what unpredictable, urgent and unpredictable, what is sudden and unpredictable? Uncertainties many and repetitives. Ultimately, ladies and gentlemen, the urgency and unforeseenness are not technically guaranteed as an appreciation of this draft law and we should keep in mind when various extraordinary events exist or are baptized as such. In Article 10 and in paragraphs 1, 2, 3, as regards notices of recruitment of scientific staff, no reference shall be made for the period necessary to complete the process of submission of curricula and applications. Why this ambiguity? How about we begin here to witness dinner cruisers, recruitment notices, with final deadlines for a few days in order to get our 'our own' children, our 'our' choices? This is not flexibility, Minister, and ladies and gentlemen of the Couple. A legal margin of at least one month should be shown for the submission of recruitment candidates to the positions of responsibility. In Article 10, paragraph 4 shall refer to private work by the employees of the Agency, upon approval by the Board. In order to avoid any strange authorisation, however, there should be an explicit wording, Mr Minister, that none of the persons mentioned in this article, namely the workers - to understand the Greek people too - can carry out a private work in any way, directly or indirectly, with the organization's activities and not be related to a person who undertakes such work. With regard to the anti-smoking law, we would say that, although the anti-smoking law should at last be applied and smoking banned, the current draft law is, however, about to create conditions of persecution, both smokers and owners of different businesses, who are at risk of immediate closure of their activities, following the consequences of the economic crisis over recent years. In Article 3(1), we note that tobacco-producing areas are excluded from the general ban. Is that possible? What for? As a Greek Solution, we want strict compliance with the law, but a just law, equal to everyone. As a Greek Solution we propose the creation of smokers and non-smokers in all places and shops, which businessmen themselves will choose. The fact that there are purely non-smoker shops is a given fact, as we are talking about the anti-smoking law. However, we also consider it self-proof and fair that the rest of the shops should be of mixed use, having smokers and non-smokers' spaces. It must be self-evident, that is, the choice of each type and the quality of life it wants to travel. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, regarding the Greek Police, we see double-parking cars waiting for the police to be seized and drug addicts lying here and there on the main streets of Athens around Omonia, day after day and the police cannot cover all the calls and incidents, so that they cannot adequately control offense on the outdoor drug markets, so that they cannot exercise policing adequately due to a lack of staff and media. Let us not forget, too, the self-evident one now - but we hope and ask that it is not for long - that it is the Greek Police which is called upon to effectively prevent and fight criminal acts, violations and dispositions of invasion orders from Turkey, with thousands of smugglers and appointed illegal immigrants. And we ask them to take over smoking! Do you know what that reminds me of me, Minister and ladies and gentlemen of all the wings of our Greek Parliament? It reminds me that at a time when hundreds of thousands of people are ready to enter the country and while hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants are already in the country, while crime is in red, and every day we see murders, rapes and robbery, and the Greek is stumbled between desperation, despair and absurdity, we are trying to disorientate him from the crucial problems of everyday life and the threats of the future. Well, let's also send the Greek police to chase the criminal smokers! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Is that a solution? Of course not! Why not carry out checks on the implementation of this law? Let them be created by the Ministry of Health or, even better, by the newly-enhanced EAFRD special control groups! Ladies and gentlemen, such as the financial controls are carried out by the IEA, for example, the relevant EGE tiles should carry out controls on the anti-smoking law. If you really are determined to implement it, you should take all necessary measures. In any other case, the whole rule that has been done will be nothing but a move of impression on the part of the government. For the EMCDDA - EMCDDA now - as far as the backup center you are trying to create, no picture you give of how it works. You are talking about a backup centre, which should be actuated in exceptional cases. If so, who will they be? Is the creation of an additional fixed operational structure prepared, but for reasons which are and are not visible today? What is the case at the end of the day and how, in what procedures, will the reserve centre be managed, since there are already shortcomings in all existing health structures in the country today? In any case and further, the members of the Board of Directors. the EKRD, as in any country in the public sector, in positions of responsibility, but also in high-level supervision and operational bodies, should hold university qualifications. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we, as a Greek Solution, have a specific and comprehensive health programme and we invite you to adopt it. We propose primary health establishments through a general reconstruction and gradual decommissioning of hospitals and hospital doctors, so that they are dedicated to serious cases, in accordance with the orders of secondary health care. The primary health is the health centers and regional doctors - which, at best today, are operating - agricultural doctors, EKAB, multi-medical practitioners, rehabilitation and rehabilitation centres and established clinics operating as external medical establishments and diagnostic laboratories for the execution of medical acts and climatic examinations. With regard to doctors of KAPH, i.e. the hospitality centers of the elderly, and mental health units, as Greek Solution, we propose the application of preventive medical education and care, with the training of primary and secondary school pupils in the following: prevention and provision of first aid, seminars, programs and preventive medicine, hygiene habits and anti-smoking campaign, systemic blood donation in the CFPs and elderly communities, systematic mutual assistance, the conscious selection of healthy eating habit and physical exercise. Health, ladies and gentlemen, is a supreme social asset and must be accessible to all of us. It starts with the way we think about it, because it is not inappropriate, as uninvited is neither our nation nor our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u59	Thank you too, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the first High School of Patras (first Chamber). The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u60	Madam President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u61	Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Madam President. I have asked for the floor, because the circle of speeches by rapporteurs and special speakers has already been completed - or completed -. Three ministerial amendments were tabled at the beginning of the meeting. I would like to ask the Minister whether he will continue this bar of amendments by the end of the sitting, which, it seems, will last until the end of the sitting. Are we going to reintroduce the former regime, which the New Democracy has denounced? See now, beyond any excuses of the Minister for tabling these amendments - urgent, that is, regulations, etc. - These are amendments which, perhaps, should be seen by each parliamentary group, as should the rapporteurs. These are amendments with seven, eight articles. The question is whether it will continue. Minister, is it your intention to table further amendments? Will other ministers be submitted? Without having told us anything in committee, you came to plenary today and started throwing amendments!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u63	Here, Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, it is clear - I would expect all the rapporteurs to speak about the amendments - and there is no doubt that two are the main amendments. One has to do with the medicine, which I promised to bring to the committee, namely the way in which they will not be excluded from the negotiating committee, these compounds, biomoids, etc., to ensure that we negotiate a better price, and the other is to do with the EAFRD. I pledged that the administrative officers would pass through S.H.I.E.L.D. and I brought it in. I promised that doctors, nurses and paramedics would go through certain platforms, such as assistant doctors, and I brought it. They were things that we discussed in the committees and I think I was very honest and well placed to you, that I will bring them to the House. Some of these were legally accepted by the House, to come as legislative improvements, and others said that they are larger and must come as articles, as amendments. I accepted that. Until they go to the State General Accounting Office and get the approval, they're here now. I don't surprise or bring anything special. What matters with minor or second issues in the Ministry of Health's amendments, I would be very pleased to explain everything to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u65	But that's not what I asked, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u66	I will not bring any further amendments, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u67	I specifically asked you. We have these amendments that are running. Is there going to be more?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u68	I have nothing else, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Comrade, the Minister will come to Step and he can answer then. I'm calling to Stepma the Special Rapporteur of Mera25, Mr. Apatzides Maria for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, health is a very important area and cannot be dealt with solely with market and profit principles. The main aim is always to improve the health of the general population. The draft law brings critical overturns to critical issues: the management of public health, the cost of pharmaceuticals, the obligations of the EEAS to its suppliers and the evolution of the anti-smoking law. The bill is part of the logic of the Government of an executive state, of the worship of growth and investment. The most important thing is that in the first part of the bill, Articles 1 to 16, EGE is repealed, Law No.4600/2019, i.e. the National Agency for Public Health, as a legal person governed by public law, to establish an organisation with the same name, EGE, but a legal entity governed by private law. This change has adverse effects on employment issues, such as recruitment and redundancies, resource management, the possibility of reducing costs. There is a great risk that this change will set up a new ERIC. We are not forgetting the enormous waste of public money at the expense of the Greek people, which has happened in the not so distant past, again with a government of the same party. The draft law does not mention the relationship between the EGE and the public hospital, but mainly with primary health care, which it seems to be substituting in many respects. The presence of the legal person governed by private law in a hospital, medical system, which presents maximum staffing, equipment and operation problems, gives rise to the belief that the ERC is leading to a further stagnation. I will mention some of the particular problems of the first part of the bill: Article 3, entitled ‘Organisations of the EGE’, stipulates that the chairman of the Board of Directors of the EGE must hold an EGE and is appointed by a decision of the Minister of Health. This is a dangerous generality, which means that it will be able to take the place of a candidate from any school, as long as he has the pleasure of the Minister. The centralisation of the State, in previous samples of the Government's writing, prevails over excellence and the necessary specialization. It is equally characteristic that there is no special provision for the Vice-President's specificity responsible for non-transmissible diseases. And also, that in Articles 5 - on the responsibilities of the EGE's Board of Directors - and 6 - on the EGE's resources - the Agency does not seem to be substantially accountable somewhere, except for the final adoption of the budget and the statement by the Minister of Health. This is a dangerous segregation of an organisation financed by the Greek people. Likewise, Article 8, entitled ‘Revision of a public contract in an emergency and unforeseen circumstances’, establishes the possibility of direct award, without a notice by a Minister's decision. The Minister for Health comes afterward to cover the matter, after the opinion of the Single Independent Authority for Public Contracts. Article 13, entitled ‘Central Laboratory for Public Health and Regional Laboratories for Public Health’, states that the terms and conditions of cooperation of the EGE with parts of the EGE, research centres or regions are to be determined by a programme contract concluded between them, without any further clarification, for example, for the price, remuneration and any condition of cooperation. This is a dangerous ambiguity. With regard to the second part of the tobacco regulations, our extension is positive with more and more specific regulations. Nevertheless, we are developing an opposing opinion in Article 17, involving the police in the application of the anti-smoking law. Apart from the fact that ELSA's staff. It is thus involved in minor activities, the problem is that it inspires police rule among the public, according to the government's general logic. After subjecting the immigration and prisons to the Ministry of Civil Protection, will the police now be involved in health matters too? Does the image of policemen extinguish citizens' cigarettes and impose fines on them don't inspire a spectacle of dangerous police rule? As far as the third part is concerned, we are very opposed. In Article 20, which deals with voluntary reductions in prices of medicinal products, we are extremely cautious. What is being attempted is to make the original formulations of the same active substance competitive. We cannot fail to notice that the Greek pharmaceutical industry produces by overwhelming volume generic preparations. So we wonder: This article will make the imported original medicines competitive by the Greek generic medicine? It is also entirely true that there is no determination of specific periods for the application of the price reductions, as it is estimated that compensation prices will be affected at any time. Article 21, entitled ‘Appropriate automatic reimbursement of pharmaceutical expenditure to research and development costs’, effectively abolishes the substance of clawback. The clawback consists of maintaining at a certain and predetermined level the pharmaceutical costs, but without prejudice to the fulfilment of the pharmaceutical needs of the general population. Article 21, however, allows pharmaceuticals to offset clawback at the cost of research and development. However, we must bear in mind that the research protocols of the pharmaceutical companies are essentially intended to promote their own medicine. The regulation provided for in Article 21 is designed to exempt companies from the cost of a protocol and to transfer the burden to the taxpayer. The private sector is thus promoted toxic, at the expense of the people's own health as well as the public money it offers. In Articles 22, 23 and 24, that is to say, in the regulations of the Committee for the Evaluation and Compensation of Medicinal Products for Human Use, the criteria and the evaluation methodology and the evaluation process, we consider that they are in the right direction, but we do not trust the Government, on the basis of the samples it has given up to now, that the criteria, methodology and the evaluation process will be respected in good faith. Article 26, concerning the Committee for the Negotiation of Drugs Prices, provides for a majority of members to be from the private sector. In other words, a committee will be composed of those with whom it needs to negotiate. As MERA25, we have an opposite logic, based on the CouncUs and Elected Citizens' Consultative Councils for Health, in accordance with the general principles of Mera25 to promote genuine democratic institutions. As far as the rest of the bill is concerned, I will focus mainly on: In Article 33, entitled ‘Recommendation of a Health Business Centre in the EKAB’, and Article 34, entitled ‘Recommendation of an independent health business department in the EKAB and a single coordination centre of an EKAB’, a horizontal breakthrough is provided for, which is an ineffective public administration and which unduly burdens the costs of the Greek taxpayer. Article 35, entitled ‘Detracts from the Central Office of the EAFRD’, rightly strengthens the EAFRD with executives. However, it shall indicate the possibility of secondments by way of derogation from any other general or special provision. This is a violation of the code of civil servants, with the pretext of better staffing and ensuring direct business preparedness in the EAW. There is a risk, through this vague procedure, that the possibility of controlling the qualifications and criteria of the people who will be sought and receiving any secondment may be excluded. This creates new possibilities for a client state. We are also confronted with the risk codes for Article 39 on information programmes on direct public health risks. It establishes information programmes which remind the CEDEFOP respectively, which had taken place a great deal of public money. This is an explosive revival mixture of the sinful past. Contrary to the spirit of the bill proposed by the government, Mera25's vision promotes a public, universal, human-centered and free health, with emphasis on primary health care, as the foundation of the ESS, and with brave enhancement of secondary education. For the best possible results in primary care, permanent wage incentives and motivating incentives are needed in specific areas, such as mountain prefectures, islands and border areas. It is also necessary for a pan-Hellenic, single, digital patient management system, with full medical file and digitization of all files within five years. Local health groups need to be supported through the development of the primary health care team and an extension with an emphasis on the urban environment and ensuring their consistent funding. It is also important to support central laboratories carrying out laboratory tests in primary health care. The development of primary health care will help, through prevention and care, close the psychiatric hospitals left and thus complete an important psychiatric reform. Contrary to the government's priorities, Mer25 proposes to legislate on a specific 2% tax on the turnover of private hospitals and clinics and on a new tax on sugar and processed meat products and dairy products. These resources may be directed to the ESS, in order to co-finance vital needs, such as: the proclamation of all subsidiary positions for fixed needs, the increase of recipients of hospitals for HEIs and TEIs and direct recruitment of personnel, the reduction of the proportion of patients' participation in the cost of medical care at the pre-2010 level, the increase of intensive care units and the reopening of those who have stopped from a shortage of doctors, nurses and machinery. In secondary and tertiary care, Mera25 supports education with a state grant rather than through pharmaceutical and sanitary companies, by updating education programmes and strict supervision at a pan-Hellenic level. Experimental, geriatric and athletic medicine needs to be established. It is very important and essential to implement the screening team in the emergency departments of all general hospitals. University clinics and laboratories need to be managed exclusively by university doctors. General hospital governors must be appointed via ASP and there must be annual crises. MERA25 proposes, finally, the establishment of the Greek free generic and return to the 2010 participations. The vision of Merra25 strongly opposes privatisation and supports human-centeredism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, my colleague. The Minister has the floor. Mr. Kikilia, you requested the floor. At least that's how I've been informed by the Chair.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u72	Madam President, the State Secretary will take the floor for a moment for an amendment from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u73	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[At this point, the Minister for Health, Mr Vassilis Kikilis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] First of all, I will say that this is the first time I have the honour of speaking to the Greek Parliament, before you and I really feel touched and the burden of this obligation. I want to talk about the issue of the commander of Mount Athos, about a person who I believe you are aware of and who I believe the services he offers on Mount Athos are very important. What we want to do is to modernise the provision and be able to take up this position and a personality of prestige and, in addition, be able to offer its services as commander of Mount Athos voluntarily, without any remuneration at all. I think we should encourage the volunteering of such people, because in the end the state is also gaining on the economic side, but also on the general side. I do not think I need to add anything more than to ask you to take these words seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much. Here, Mr. Kikilia, you have the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Madam President. I do not intend to go far, because I would like to hear all the rapporteurs and colleagues. I would like to repeat more or less what we had the opportunity to discuss in the committees, explaining why this Legislative Decree of the Ministry of Health in the House came in order to vote for and become a law of the state. I will start with the medicine, health finances and the way this policy has been conducted in recent years. I also said to the committee, and I repeat today: Can anyone say that there were good intentions in the previous political leadership in what I think we all want, that is to reduce the pharmaceutical expenditure for the benefit of those who are insured first, that is to say, having less participation and then saving resources to be used for the recruitment of doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and to support the hospitals of the ERC which are obviously ageing in buildings? There's no doubt about it. But can we see the result? The result is specific. Let's not make fun of each other. With regard to what the World Health Organisation mentioned in 2013-2014 as structural measures, and which we said at the time we will bring in order to implement, for which you have been insulting us and then told us that you will take us to the special courts, later on when common sense took place in a large part of colleagues with regard to health finances and what these structural measures are, you have entered into the process of institutionalising some. But what was the result? As a result, these structural measures did not work, you did not insist on and retracted, and you and many in the friendly tactics of what the cap says about the medicine or for the providers, etc., "what above them you want us to cut it horizontally at the end of the year, clawback" and if that is what the Ministry of Finance says, because it is budgetaryly creating a problem and God has what will happen tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. So these four-and-a-half-and-a-half-year arrogant expenditures have been accumulated and what it has to do with the private market. They are these bad businessmen Greeks, foreigners, small, large, etc.Huh? Is that the bad market we charge on her back what we want? I do not think because they pay tax, because they are the Greek citizens, the businessmen, the small ones, the pharmacists, the doctors, all of them and from this tax, which is the money of the Greek taxpayers and which, with great respect, this government will pay even the last euro, health policies, social security, labour and so on are being built. So what happened here? I'll tell you what has happened for days SYRIZA for the last four and a half years. The pharmacopoeia was outside in the pharmacopoeia, on the market something less than two billion, and you reached it at three billion four hundred this year, based on the Ministry of Health calculations. What does that mean? That you brought the cost to the drug back in the 2009 season. It's not a lie, it's a reality. We both agree on this number.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u77	No, we don't agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u78	It's at 2012 levels, not 2009.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u79	Okay. I believe it, Minister. '12. Deal. For the medicine in hospitals, with a wall of less than five hundred million, the calculation for this year is in eight hundred twenty. So what structural measures are we talking about? How do you mean you have implemented the structural measures? I am not in favour of tensions and confrontation in the field of health. I think they have been endless all these years, led only to problems, lost valuable time and the bride pays her, as always, the average Greek family and the patient.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u80	You...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u81	Please. I didn't interrupt anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u82	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u83	So what was the result of these five years? We have been telling you all these years when we were a major opposition, but also the minor opposition and others: 'You are not taking structural measures. You've rested on the clawback. You agree and give to the companies every year by regulating some doses, accumulating debts, and they will at some point lead to a dead end for both EEA and our hospitals, both for the National Health System and for the private market." We are therefore not in 'approximately five', but in 'and five'. So what do we say? We are bringing a bill, which on the part of the drug has structural measures, has a re-establishment and reinforcement of the HDA and the Negotiations Committee, which has been strengthened by these committees so that they can actually operate and bring prices down and above all access to all medicines, whether or not innovative, expensive or not. To the Greek patient. I would remind you that in the last two years no new medicines have been introduced into the Greek market. This is a problem for Greek patients. I have explained from the first moment in my opening speech here in the programme statements that for us, the vulnerable groups are the patients, after which these workers in the ESS, doctors, nurses, administrative staff, paramedical staff, etc. At the end of the day, the private sector and everyone else there are. But for these people, nothing has happened over the last four years, about how we save resources, if we reduce drug prices and thus their involvement, if they really have access to all these drugs that they must have and if they save resources that go to another part of health, to the recruitment, to the support of the ESS, etc. So medical protocols, doctors' councils and a decision on how these medications are given, the HDA committee without generic media, which were worldwide patents only in Greece, so as to speed up evaluation and negotiation processes after. There have been negotiations and retrospectives on drugs over the last three years and on new medicines to reduce prices. I would like to explain again that it is the retail price, the trade price - for example, in Germany, these prices are high - and the insurance price is another thing. The insurance price is classified, regulated and reported to the IRS, but the insurance price can be 70% and 80% and 90%, below the retail price, and so it should be. That is the aim of this political leadership. This obviously gives huge savings in our insurance system through the EEAS. So that's a knot. Also, in terms of quantity, it would suffice, Mr Ministers, to go for a walk to the EEAS and to ask the top compositions of the most expensive key companies in quantities how far we are above the European Union average. You would see that in preparations we are both five and ten and fifteen and twenty and fifty times over. So one thing is the reduction of prices, the other issue is quantitative, overwriting. We have two ways of dealing with it. One - and I want to be honest, I spoke clearly both in domestic production and in multinationals - is to reduce quantities. They will take care of themselves by medical representatives and scientists themselves to check the prescription from their own side, or be sure they will get 30% clawback on the head. On the other hand, however, the state must have control mechanisms so that it knows what the prescribing amounts are. The patients themselves are asking for it. Be careful, sensitive groups have arrived, patients, oncology, to ask us to check which medicines are given, which patients and in what amounts. The patients themselves! So yes, this is a new modern, modern, institutional, real policy on medicine. Controls prices, controls the quantity, converts the EEAS to a modern organisation, health provider, buyer and seller of health services, almost monopsone. It should normally have a dominant position on the market. Does he have a dominant position on the market? Only dominant position is not currently on the market. It has much more potential. I think we all agree on this, and we must all work in this direction. I put the medicine aside and go to ETA. My colleagues told me: “The National Public Health Agency is the name that SYRIZA gave. Change it, Minister, to take the banner." I don't even care. National Public Health Agency has also called it your good one. What do I care? The emergency. What is this organization serving? Public health and emergency, earthquakes, infections, oppressions etc. Stay away from us. If it happens, what are we gonna do? Uh, well, a legal person governed by public law can't react to the emergency. Don't make fun of each other. I have brought you an example - I have too much - that the agency cannot react that way. CDCs are legal entities under private law around the world. But you have made points which I accept and which have been incorporated, in order to prove that there is no bad option, but there is honesty and plan and plan, so that it is a modern public health and emergency agency. I want to be honest. Whether a legal person governed by public law, a legal person governed by private law, or a service entrusted to the Ministry, I sign that the persons make the chairs and not the chairs. So it is very important who is responsible for every authority or body, whatever it is, and how it serves its function, and so we are all judged by it. In fact, you asked me for something that is crucial. What did you ask me? The non-experienced, which is essentially translated into recruitment of administrative staff, whenever necessary - I do not think it is necessary for the EGE - that is to be governed by the rules of the AACC and that is done with an AACC. I accepted it and incorporated it. You told me that even if it is extraordinary, that it is not arbitrary, that there is a platform such as this - Mr Paulakis made it - as there is to the subsidiary doctors and that there is a nursery staff, paramedical staff, and that one can choose from this platform in the emergency. As soon as there is no reason for the emergency, the contract will automatically be terminated. I accepted it and incorporated it. It is clear, therefore, that this is not a partisan thing, something re-changing, something that has to do with micro-policy. We have issues all over the country. We have a lot of pre-experienced structures and we have a crisis of refugee - immigration. This crisis must be tackled. I'm not hiding behind my finger. We've had more and more in the past. Of course, there are other ministers here, such as Andreas Loverdos - former Minister of Health - and others. We have all dealt with the past, but today the emergency, what it has to do with the Ministry of Health. Unfortunately, it's almost daily. Does this have to be possible, directly, for the State to react and for public health reasons to be able to resurrect or deal with crises? Sure. Is this a body that needs to talk about prevention, vaccination, new techniques, which incorporate them tomorrow? And I would like support for that. I see right and left, whoever wants to campaign for what he wants, as long as he gives an Ok to the National Broadcasting Council. It's not like that. Medical, pharmaceutical associations, independent bodies, committees etc. It should be homogenised on a central public health policy. Public health is not a product of policy production either of the New Democracy or of SYRIZA or of anyone. It's public health. Organized and structured under these scientists must all be costed and know how they work, when they refer to something and what it is intended to do. You're telling me the president isn't a doctor. I will submit the curriculum vitae of the similar president of the CDC in England and France and ECDC in the minutes. They're not doctors. Can be evaluated for this organism if doctors' management might have been successful or not. I leave it in everyone's judgment. No, he won't be a doctor. He'll be a manager and be able to run the organization. We will remove the suffering above the backs of the scientific staff who must be other than his work, his science, really be able to serve public health. That is why two Vice-Presidents, of unknown value, obviously, are appointed, one for infectious contagious diseases and the other for non-transmissible, cancer, etc., so that they can scientifically work with their teams, organise public health and know what we are dealing with. One colleague told me about the scientific board, which exists or does not exist. It is predicted from what I saw from the organogram there is. Come and make a modern organization that everyone enjoys, that feels safe, that everyone knows is serving public health. The rest - and I reiterated it in committee - is for justice. Excuse me very much, but also as the State Secretary for Civil Protection and today - and I will keep it up to my honour, as my fellow citizens honor me, as Mr Mitsotakis has given me - I believe that I will continue to stand up to this: that is the legislative authority, that is another executive power and obviously another judicial authority. One can't get involved in the other. So I have never commented, never intervened nor will I do, on matters which are not my responsibility as a Member of Parliament and as a Minister. There are other provisions which define points. I think you've talked a lot about joining the EMCDDA with the EMCDDA. I don't have to say a lot of things. Such explanations were given. It has entered into the order and the one who has to define possible, not to say a dispute, a dispute of opinion, a dispute of opinion, and therefore a case of exceptional nature. I think that at some point TPAs should become pre-branded, integrated with the emergency system, the system of the EAW, the emergency system and all of them to deal with everything. So the EMCDDA and the ICU must be involved, the platform that you brought, the electronic, the digital one. I think it is a good initiative to the EKRD. We need to find a way to arm ourselves. I have said too many times and I urge everyone - at a point of misunderstanding - to be vaccinated. So what's wrong with Kikilis asking everyone to be vaccinated? I repeat why I ask the vulnerable groups, such as our children, the medical staff, the older people of age who are suffering, to be vaccinated. But because in December, February, and March, there's a war in the country. Go to Mr. Papapathiou in EKEB and see how many waiting lists are for an intensive bed. Evidently prevention - the last scientist, doctor or health person understands - is far superior to treatment. It also regulates other things in the bill. Potentially, some see them at a second or third speed. I inform you in advance that we will bring in a comprehensive bill, as promised, for public health, for the ERC, for hospitals, etc. He said something the Minister said to comment on, but it's something I don't know yet. I'll expect to be informed by the President of the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association, and I'll be placed in everything. I do not want to resort to anything, but I think it is obvious and must be accepted that where the public interest is far superior to everyone else, there are no micropolitical games and there are no tensions and specs. Respect for the middle Greek family, respect for the Greek patient, respect for his needs. Do not laugh at each other, there is no God nor can anyone with a magic wand control everything in health, not in a month, not in a year, but as you have seen in a whole four years' time. That is why health systems European, centrally, do strong decades to make institutional changes and insist, try, perhaps fail and learn from their mistakes. Come on, please, so much for this institutional change, we can all do it together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u84	Thank you too, Minister. The Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement Mr. Loverdos has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much, Madam President. From Mount Athos, berth. Minister, I'll tell you about you. First of all, congratulations. I didn't know you, good luck. I would like to start with the Foreign Ministry's amendment. Apart from being a Parliamentary representative, I am also a Foreign Department and I know very well, because I have also based in the Ministry of Education, the many problems that Mount Athos has and the need for state assistance. I think that the amendment is right, since Mr Martin's face is chosen to contribute in his own way. He asks not to be paid, ladies and gentlemen, and a number of his responsibilities are to go to the deputy, who was appointed the extremely experienced, on the issues of Mount Athos, Mr Aristos Kasmiroglou. So I think you're doing well to regulate this, because otherwise you would have too many problems with the choice of commander and deputy commander. So we agree and I put forward my positive attitude, starting with my speech. As I referred now to the foreign ministry, I would like to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that I returned last night from London, after three and a half days of stay, because we had the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. As long as I'm not a minister and I'm a congressman, I'm a member of this assembly. I have never seen any such disapproval from Turkey in my ten-twelfth term in this convention. Never! It was something that was unprecedented to see the whole assembly being upset by the applause, when various speakers, including us, objected to and complained about Turkey's invasion of northern Syria. And it wasn't that common, because whatever the events of the past were, it was always in a country that participated fully in NATO, without spins and no objections to its involvement in the battlefields and its involvement in the functioning of this organization, they are also being treated in the corresponding way. The unprecedented case is that delegations from Belgium, from the Netherlands, from the United Kingdom, which is paradoxical, because it is constantly on the side of Turkey - and they denounced this behaviour. He was very vigilant, of course, the Secretary-General of NATO, Mr Stoltenberg, who did not take a stand against and tried to familiarise the fight against terrorism, but was 'a little' as political intervention in relation to what I described earlier. We should go to health now. About seven to eight months ago, I introduced myself as a parliamentary representative and then my party, to the then Minister of Health, Mr. Xanthos, to pay little attention to these human shells located in the center of Athens and each day they multiply. He didn't. However, from what I see after three months, neither have you been worried about these issues, which are issues that concern first of all the people who are there, secondly, the rest of Athens and, in any case, the people who see this image of Athens, Mr Kikilia. I'm asking you to charge. Now that there is a change in the leadership of the Ministry and that our reason doesn't listen to him in the way they heard him, in a denounced mood, I ask you to use experience from my own days and these people to protect them, but at the same time to protect the health of the rest, their shops and the image of the city. It's not simple. It's not "go and pick them up." Each of them can have thirty sicknesses for so many months and days on the road. He wants attention, and even the EAW can't go if it's not his vehicle specially equipped. It's outside the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it's outside the Bank of Greece, it's outside various other banks and public buildings. It's in the most central Athens has and you're looking at them. Why are you looking at them? You must react as soon as possible. We agree with the merger of the EMCDDA with the EMCDDA, but we have reservations and I think our rapporteur was very clear. We have reservations about the absolute power you have to appoint the administration of the new organisation and the lack of a scientific board, as our rapporteur rightly said, on the basis of the suggestions you will be setting up the area. If you see practically the issue of health and if you see the large number of hospitals that the country has and the terrible weaknesses of merging, after the reactions of local societies that are too intense, not for health reasons, but for anything you can imagine. From the Church to the Bar Association. The functioning of the EMCDDA in modern terms will be very efficient in protecting public health. If you use your bikes if you expand this function. If, if, if, if, if! What we see here, without disagreeing, is that you are making an effort, not in the wrong direction, but we do not see how other than administrative energy, this single organisation will now be helped to do its job. Because we administer to Greece, it is very easy to demagogue through administration. 'I will together, I will, I will take on board, and this will bring about a better result for the health field', let alone when our rapporteur has recorded an increase in the costs incurred by the Union, if I am not mistaken. Isn't that what you said? Yeah. So we have some issues that you need to see more penetrating and don't stay in the management. Now, in terms of the anti-smoking. Ladies and gentlemen, because in a few hours' time we will have to vote, I want to give you a personal experience. The ability of the state to control the implementation of any anti-smoking law is too limited if there is no police in the middle. When I undertook to carry out the implementation of the law of Ms Xinoyannakopoulou, I had some forty public health auditors. I told the Prime Minister at the time that 'I can't handle it, it can't. He said to me, "But there's the City Police." A mayor will tell you "participate", Simos Danielides of Thessaloniki, the mayor's side will tell you "I can't, because today I have other priorities, such as illegal parking" and so on. Divide by two, at best, the material that the City Police can provide as assistance. There are the auditors. Then with all my pressure I only managed to add to the auditors. They don't have gasoline to put in their cars. There are prefectures that do not have labour inspectors and are served by adjacent prefectures. Each county has the centres of health interest, which are hundreds, which these people must control. It's not coming out to help you in the anti-smoking. The only solution is the police. But the police have another job to do. I was then trying to get the Prime Minister's approval of joining the police and the Minister of Public Order was unequivocally negative. I did not do so, and as a result of doing what is done and telling us at that time, the Minister of Tourism will tell you that yours will, too, 'it is preferable for a stranger who comes to ask whether smoking is banned or permitted and said to him that, rather than being allowed to be banned and watched all smoke'. The country's image is afflicted with them. So, since you are putting the police, you must be sure - you have the ministry's experience - that the police will do this work too, because you are giving them so much responsibility and you are confronting them with local societies and with their people at such a level that people should really exceed themselves and instead of protecting our security from looking and who smokes and who does not smoke. I don't see any other solution. The other solution would be to make a cut in the centres of health interest and with a red mark appear to be allowed similarly to those that are not allowed. If we go to the Catholic, as is a very brave choice, then know that no solution that will help you is not in your hands. All solutions have many problems. Now we're going to the medicine and that's what I'm going to finish. The rapporteur's speech was complete, I do not have much to say. But I have to add experience. He told you - I think you said it too, but I'm not sure - that since 2016 we have a growing trend in the consumption of the medicine. You said something, you mentioned it and said it was 2009. You're not right, it was 2012. But, in order to reach the end of 2009 to 2012, there have been titanic attempts from the expenditure of 5,4 or 5,6 billion - I do not remember exactly - every year of the insurance funds to reach and deliver to New Democracy the sum that you were called under. Last days of that House, perhaps the last draft law, I brought the clawback, the prune, that is, the one withholding the public expenditure, that is, their closed budget. The whole House was thrown upright, they were thrown up, and the pharmaceuticals when I told them. One tossed the front chairs, Greek. The colleagues of all the wings - the left was more fighting against them, but they also said it to our Members - that this is unconstitutional. It is. I told them it wasn't prescribing. He doesn't restrain! I'd done the e-mail, I'd done the EOPY. I could not deal with the answer, in our complaint, "you, prescribing a lot", when the other one said to you: "Yes, but my medications are expensive, yes, but I have many patients, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes." So, since this is becoming increasingly difficult and we cannot reach the 2 billion that was the European average... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I would like two more minutes because I am not going to take a second time. ...when the clawback was the only solution at that time, where the expenditure had to go further, so that it would go where the Dutch, the Belgian, said that in the first opportunity this measure should be lifted, and that if I am Minister, it will not be left for more than a year and a half. We fell after a month. The government of Mr. Samaras came and then the SYRIZA government came. Not only did they take this measure back, but SYRIZA extended it everywhere. Someone was telling me - I don't remember whether he was an ophthalmist or a visual shop - that he was expanded everywhere. And when they brought the price determination, on the basis of the two lowest prices in the Eurozone, and we told them 'that is more expensive than in the European Union, the expenditure will go up', they said 'no, because there is the clawback'. My answer there was that 'do not rely on clawback, because there is recourse to the Council of State and it will be won, because the measure is not constitutionally so.' They didn't hear it, I don't know what they did, but they did well in my opinion that they didn't do it on the medicine. Now you come and count it out with the investigation. You'll fail. I'm beating you not a bell, but a risk bell that you'll fail. Why? Because you will not be able to control - at least in early times until you do something magic - excessive prescribing. Secondly, all this research is good for those colleagues who do not know. All this research is words that you will not be able to verify in practice. So you're giving them the money. Is EPY so strong that it will help you? Oh, no! You're adjusting his debts! You have an EPPY who is struggling. What is your comfort to be the first draft law, your first measure? If I were you I'd rather wait for the Council of State, I'd get time. Do you come to your first draft law to bring this? I'm afraid you'll regret it, but it'll be too late. What do we say? We say that the greatest injustice SYRIZA has done, in his third memorandum, was to increase the contribution of the insured to 6%. We have an amendment. Do you feel like you're on your feet financially? Because here, about you told us that it was enough for the election of July, for you to take the government and then all of Greece to smile. The whole problem of the crisis, bureaucracy and difficult growth rates has had a precondition for solving it. Be the government. All right, you're done! However, it did not reach and reach a government change, no matter how much the people approve it. You need to take appropriate measures, make appropriate decisions. If you think, by smiling, that the EEAS is strong, can the health system make this open to the investigation? I say this openness to the pharmaceutical companies that we have really wronged - here we agree - with the clawback. If you have this comfort, make it for the world. Reduce to 4% of the 6% that Mr. Tsipras' third memorial took their contribution. And that's if you have the comfort. We have tabled this, it is our amendment, see it. And we will support it. Minister, but the truth is different. The truth is that your EPO provisions confess to and are within the draft law. EPPY's having troubles. You do not have the luxury to remove clawback. I can tell you again that I would wait for the judgement of the courts to take some time to see beyond your good intentions, which I do not doubt. You also start with a reason that is not a complaint, you start with a reason that states that you want to see the problems. However, the measure you take is disproportionately generous with the state of the country and health and when it fails, I want to see what measure you will invent. Because all the restrictive measures we used, and the clawback and the returns and all the rest and the entrance, the tolls to enter the list. We've all done it. I want to know what your alternative will be if this plan does not go ahead. We do not agree on that and we will have the right to life, even though we would like the opposite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, twenty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st Patras High School (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister for Education, Mr Kerameos, has the floor for three minutes to place himself on the amendment he has tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u87	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Education has tabled a two-sided amendment to the Ministry of Health bill. The first regulation concerns direct financing problems for the proper functioning of the new school year. The second aspect concerns the issue of the signifi­cants. The first regulation ensures that employment credits are provided with the necessary number of substitutes and payrolls for teachers and specialist and assistant staff, because the government that comes has not inherited us enough appropriations, which were necessary to start with full coverage of the new school year. I will give you a few examples. There was no substantial provision for the staff needed for the compulsory two-year pre-school education, and the necessary appropriations were not properly calculated by the previous government, since additional guidance groups were added to the third level, so new needs for teachers, which were not calculated by the previous government. Despite these difficulties that the previous government has inherited us with this regulation, we are meeting these needs and we urge you to vote on them. The question is whether you in SYRIZA will vote for a government amendment. And I say this because the question is: Do you want to meet these new needs that have appeared or do you not want? You want to correct this mistake you inherited us? So here we are, if you want to meet these needs, vote for them. If you don't want to, I'm guessing we won't hear any more complaints about any loopholes in any school. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I'm coming to second setup. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] I would like your tolerance for a moment, Madam President. The second regulation concerns a central message of our government policy. This central message, ladies and gentlemen, is that the effort towards luck is being chosen. This is a key message of the New Democracy Government. It is therefore worth seeking to improve our students and not seeking to be lucky in their lives. That is the message we want to pass as government. So by the provision that we are bringing today, it changes the choice of signifiers, observers and holders responsible for depositing a wreath in the primary schools. Since this year's school year, and from now on, they will be selected according to their performance in the previous school year, i.e. in the primary school year. The aim is to reward students' efforts and to provide an incentive to improve performance. I shall end, Madam President, by saying this: I cannot resist and not refer to a communication made yesterday by the SYRIZA Education Section, which deals with a decision by the Council of State concerning the choice of signifiers, a decision which decided whether or not the regulation of the SYRIZA on the drawing-up of a draw-up option was constitutional. It refers to the communication - and I quote - the Education Sector of SYRIZA "in a decision - a trick for the New Democracy". And I ask: "Why do I do? Does this decision consider that the choice of service-based flags, which is our proposal, is unconstitutional? Of course not. Does this decision mean that the state does not have the right to choose the criteria on the basis of which the ensignees are defined in the schools? Of course not. Of course - and it goes without saying - the state has - and this House has - the right to set these criteria. I ask why, then, is this a trick? All that did was judge that it was not anti-constitutional. We are therefore bringing in a new arrangement because our problem with your own regulation, Mr SYRIZA, was not that it was unconstitutional, it was the ideal behind this regulation. We are therefore moving towards a different arrangement for performance-based flags. For us, ladies and gentlemen, equality and similarity. We say 'yes' to equality and, in particular, to equality of opportunity and, in particular, through education. That is why, for example, we are striving to do two-year compulsory pre-school education. But the resemblance. They are not all the same, and we owe them as a state, in our view, to reward the effort, to motivate young children to overcome themselves every day. That's our target. That is our objective through this provision and a lot of others that will come to the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Minister. And now we are entering the list of speakers, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Economou from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to take the time, because it is a very long list, and it is important for all Members to speak and keep the time. Here, you have the floor, Mr. Economou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u89	I would first like to congratulate the Minister for Education on his very correct regulation on the issue of the signifi­cant. We have to say that in politics, beyond budgetary levels, symbolism is a crucial size, which is really with the message that this amendment introduces in the form of a framework which, in fact, can lead us to better efforts, something that we all want, parents, children and political order. And I am closing here for the vaccine of today's procedure that was the amendment. But I will not be praised for the Minister of Health, Mr Kikilia, who, together with his staff, has today brought a very important and serious bill. The Ministry of Health's first bill is indeed characterised by the seriousness and importance of the interventions it has put forward through the policy axes which it has introduced through the procedure and the three-day procedure in the Committee on Social Affairs and here today in plenary. It is really a serious bill because the debate on how the world of health policy is being shaped and structured and public health in the country is a very critical debate to be held - and I will also agree on it - with voices, populism and demagogues. It wants serious, low tons and really an approach that tries to solve problems and does not create issues which are unnecessary. I shall therefore stand by the spirit of the committee, where there was a very positive approach of the wings to a series of issues and a climate of consensus, and I congratulate the Minister and his staff, because they have listened to the Members, heard the committee, and there have been interventions which now form a new framework through this consultation, which complements the original proposal and so we have today the government's political proposals that take their final form and are indeed a form that is of great interest. Firstly, it restores the issue of the National Public Health Agency. Mr Minister, to tell you the truth, I personally would not have insisted on that name because I think it is really coupled with a setback of prevention and emergency policy in our country. And just for that, dear Mr. Xanthi, I wouldn't introduce it. But if the Minister likes me, I'm out of hand. So I say: The crucial - and I will agree with the Minister - is the policy of the emergency if it can be done with your state-run Paleolithic culture and perception, which you have introduced in the past period as a minister, and your government, or can be done with the logic that may exist in Greece, Europe and the whole world, that is, these agencies must be faced with the emergency. And the emergency, only a legal person can deal with it, which you couldn't see, not because you're a doctor, but because you have health experience. Do you know why you couldn't see it? Because you're ideological. Why do you obey a plan which says that "the state dominates everyone". The State is a provider. You know very well - and we have also discussed this in the Committee on the Revision of the Constitution, which is currently under way for the revision - that health is indeed a public asset. Public health and public health may also be served by the State provider and the private provider. This is another approach, which has the elements of the free economy, is more liberal, which is an approach that can really give many solutions to this essential: Good services, cheaper services for the citizen. You obey a policy which says: 'All around the state'. The result: A National Health System that rejoices. This is a National Health System which was launched in the 1980s as an attempt to tackle inequalities really, but today, as you know, it makes it vindicates you from your experience. How and in what ways can you deal with it? What are the tools that could give an answer to deadlocks? A public state-owned CENO - EIA - say it as you like - or a unit that could operate as a private direct intervention law unit, solving important and critical issues? The choice of government, to me, is self-evident, is reasonable, is a choice that brings things to normality. ETA along with AEMY are two very good tools. Don't lose the country, don't lose the health system. I think they can work in a forward-looking, creative and effective way for the problems that we have before us. A second big issue is about the anti-smoking law. If we stick to the rhetoric I have heard here, which is demagogic, that is to say how we share the votes, the shops, the world, the scientist, all this debate will cancel the great importance and the value of the anti-smoking law policy. Prevention, that is the big issue. It does not bring him here - I think - because the Minister wants to show a sensitivity to the issue of tobacco or cigarette. Prevention will be the main axis, and the Prime Minister and the Minister will well start, but all of us here as the first legislature will be a symbolicly symbolic political action, which is anti-smoking law, public health prevention. That is where we need to focus, and everything else goes into the altar of an unbearable vote, which I think is not right today. The fact that the anti-smoking law has not been implemented so far is an issue and I think that previous leaders, at least the Ministry of Health, must apologise for not applying. Of course, I think you have covered it with your positive attitude, but I think we need to make a reflection, to see what the shortcomings and problems we have had so far are. With regard to the EAFRD, it is a very serious and proper regulation. Why didn't it happen so far? Two centers up the hall? Two centers in the state? Wrong! This combination is functionally the best. In terms of medicine and connection to research, clawback, Minister, is critical, very serious, innovative and it is the first time that it has been introduced into the country. Because I have no time, I will not open up the debate on clawback, but I think you will give us an opportunity to speak with your new legislation, which I believe we will have the opportunity to talk about. I close, saying it's crucial to me and the last commander's provision. Some people are stuck in chairs, some are not watching what is going on and instead of serving policy plans, serving their chair.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u90	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u91	I shall conclude, Madam President. Some must understand that in order for policies to be successful, there must also be the concept of evaluation. You succeed or you don't succeed. If you don't succeed, you go home sometimes. That's what life says, that's what the proper functioning of a system rewards the successor, because he's trying, working, for the benefit of the citizen always. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, there are too many speakers and we will not have time. Please, hold on to your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u93	Do we have a time limit?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u94	It is not a matter of time, but of respect for other colleagues, for everyone to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u95	Why do you repeat it? They'll talk anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, I repeat, because I am sitting in the Chair, and when we say that speaking time is seven minutes, I mean that my colleagues understand that. In that sense, I repeat, because you spend time. I think it's too simple. I don't have to explain it to you. Mr Papadopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes and immediately thereafter Mr Hetas, the Parliamentary Representative of Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u97	This is where the first bill of health from the Ministry of Health, a hundred days after the takeover of government responsibility from New Democracy, extends without the legislator wanting to discuss all issues relating to health: from prevention to emergency care, to issues relating to how we organise the EMCDDA, the EMCDDA, the issues relating to medicine. However, an issue that would have a direct follow-up with what figures you have presented so far should have been what your intentions are with regard to the financing of the National Health System. You are all talking about the current situation in hospitals, health centres, units of the primary health system everywhere, in the islands and in the difficult areas, even in the islands that are receiving a large volume of refugees and migrants, and you are not at all discussing what you intend to do in the 2020 budget in relation to health expenditure. I note that 5.2% of GDP in conditions of control of our public finances by creditors was considered small, since the Community average is considered to be 6.5% - 7% of GDP. All of this shows the deafness with which you are recruiting emergency needs in hospitals and in units that cannot be inspected, as well as what comes to you as information and you do not show any willingness to deal with them. Previous colleagues have told you about the Paediatric Clinic, for example, at the Trikala Hospital, which updates only 12 days a month, while this prefecture will receive a large volume of visitors with children - you know the "Speak of the Evils" - and we will not know how to deal with it. And yet there is no way of dealing with it, like the Hospital of Serres, where if an ancillary doctor does not renew his contract, he cannot do anything, he leaves.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u98	What's "Speak Fly"?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u99	"Milos" is a celebration that gathers more than a million visitors each year, mainly children, who come with schools, with their mothers, and who are looking for a pediatric clinic with on-call staff at the Trikala Hospital or at the next Carditsa Hospital, which also has shortcomings. This is an important gap. He didn't have the sensitivity, nor did the new commander of the U.S., who appointed you, at least come to see what the real picture is in the Second Pathological Clinic and the Emergency Department and the Intensive Treatment Unit, as well as to see how the HORL Clinic does not work. Similar problems exist in hospitals throughout the country. However, these need to be intervened on the real issue, that is, without seeing the issues that concern recruitment, what you are going to do with organising the primary health system, when there is a call for four hundred and fifty-four posts in health centres and when you see, while we are talking about dealing with emergencies, that there is an intake of two hundred eight posts in the emergency departments - which are now being organised as self-sufficient - and you are not announcing a way of rapid intervention, you are not dealing with specific issues, when it is known that the previous government has announced an act of ministerial council with nine hundred five doctor posts and another thousand five hundred staff in 2019. But we do not even know if there is your intention to issue the notice in 2019, because you took back the distribution of the positions that existed. All your intentions are unknown to the issues ahead of us. Look: You said some numeric data about the medicine as well. He was tempted and Andrew Loverdos said, after his actions, that the pharmaceutical extra-natal expenditure went to 1,950 million. It wasn't like that. To the 1,950 million of the 6,400 million drug expenditure had reached and the other 5,103 million extra-natal spending reached in 2009. Then the troika intervened, which led you to limit the cost of medicine. So it is neither in honor of Andreas Loverdou nor yours that the extra-survivor's expenditure has come to 1,950 million, which we had to keep. Because in order to make policy at a time when we all recognise that there is no longer more than our heads the will of the lenders to be Greece at internal devaluation, we must look at the issues, as we have seen in the Intergroup Committee on Drug Policy, which we have set up in Parliament. I would like to ask you this: do you want all these issues that we are now discussing on the basis of drug interventions and the conclusions we have reached and how do we continue to intervene, as you refer to an intention to check the expenditure which also leads to clawback and returns in total, but you did not talk about therapeutic protocols? Our government had reached sixty two healing protocols. Without protocols the cost is not limited. Only with your intention to reduce clawback is this not the set-off that you say, if not an effective way of dealing with all drug issues. Well, I'll go. The question of prevention does not close with your intention to deal only with smoking and to reconvert the National Public Health Organisation into a mechanism that will remind you of how neither Jenny Cremastino understood what the body was doing when it wanted to share public money in various media, but not even the Light Football, as State Secretary for Health. Because mechanisms, when they are private law, are not just a matter of people, but of what functions they serve. Are they really serving interventions and early interventions in what is urgent? So this must be our intention, our concern, not to make a public body reminiscent of the customer-friendly mechanisms with which CLINO was operating. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u100	And we, Mr. Comrade. The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, Mr Heitas, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'll start with the most recent, although Mrs. Keramea left, not to say that we're only whining or we're negative to everything. Although I would like it to be the Minister of Education here, to say that the Greek Solution is in favour of the choice of majors in municipal schools with merits, of strengthening the competition and exchange of students and, in any case, the worthy in this life must move forward and not all be a matter of luck, on the one hand. On the other hand, I would like to say, after I have made it clear that we are positive about this amendment, that I would like Mrs Keramos to say to her, too, that she should be seriously concerned with her ministry and other important issues - I have reiterated them from the Stepma, I will say them today - such as the book of Religiouss and the curriculum in our history. However, this has not been discussed and it has not come with any urgent amendment. Let me remind her again that the fast internet is good - I had said it last time - but we need to see essential things in our education, because unfortunately our youth is practically illiterate according to the European Union. As far as the bill is concerned, because both our President, Mr Velopoulos and our rapporteur, Mrs Athanasios, have been extremely well placed, you only mention three points from me. So the New Democracy Government is trying to solve many problems in public health through this anti-smoking law. Mr Kikilia, you also know very well that public health has serious problems, such as, for example, cutting off the benefits to illegal immigrants, hiring staff and serving our hospitals and eliminating, if that is, of course, the limit of human beings, the bureaucracy of the system, because the world is dying. I would like to point out, Mr Kikilia, that you are following exactly the same recipe, the Minister for Health, to appoint the chairman of the board of directors of the Agency. This contrasted with what Mrs Kerameo said earlier, that the worthy do not go any further, but go on with our 'our own' children. So find them. No surprise can cause us the fact, because the same way you have naturally followed in the case of the Commander of HND, a "yours" child. So here, then, a man of your own who can do your job. I have listened very carefully to your rapporteur earlier, so that I can get to the essence of the control measure and the fines. We are reasoned that we should develop such an anti-smoking culture and not go with the bolt and punish the people who smoke. Make that little picture now. Well, I'll see you here, we're just talking to society. Make the picture. We're out. We're leaving here tired today and we're going to have a drink somewhere together. So what do we do, Mr Vardzopoulos? I don't smoke. If I light a cigarette, will you nail me? So you're gonna nail me. That's not how it works. You put the police on it, Mr. Kiklia, in a very gracious role. Do that, too. In other words, the people who take 750 euros, the policemen - because it is so much, the new harvest of policemen who are now getting so much, 750 euros clean - we have them out in terrorism, we have them guarding us with rotten cars, without equipment, to pay their own equipment out of their pocket. People didn't have a job looking and who smokes in the cafeterias. I come to you, Mr. Rapporteur of the New Democracy. I want you to understand that you are destroying a very large part of the business. You said you asked them, you spoke with them. But you didn't tell us what they told you. I know what you asked them, they obviously gave you the floor. But what these people told you? I cannot believe that businessmen came here, shopkeepers, cafes - bars, restaurants and they told you 'bravo, go ahead, this law is too good, will favour us'. We must therefore also see in society targeting ourselves in. What impact will it have on society if we cut off the cigarette? They're gonna lose jobs. Our President, Mr Velopoulos, also analysed them earlier. I'm going to some other issues now, ladies and gentlemen. I read it, and I really blew up. Our Armed Forces will renovate buildings where they will reside in, these buildings will be reserved for immigrants and illegal immigrants, illegal immigrants. I read it, and I really went crazy. The Ministry of National Defence is therefore renovating - at a rapid rate - public buildings in Attica. I'm telling people to hear it, 'cause they might not know these things. In other words, in Greece, we are sighing and poor about what we are dealing with and where we spend our money! So the Ministry of National Defence is renovating rapidly in public buildings in Attica to host immigrant and refugees instantly! I'm tabling the relevant report in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would also like to say that, on this subject, we have had our minds and otherwise you are going. I'll say something and I'll finish with the migration. Just now, three minutes ago, I read something, that is something fresh, new, and I want to put it on the table. Thirteen thousand eight hundred forty two are people - today's number - in Moria. It's the biggest number in history! It's tragic. There are thirteen thousand eight hundred forty-two people today. They've just left fifty-five since last week. Those who left for decongestion were fifty-five minors last week. No one else! I'll tell you about a company poll. We are talking about these favourite polling companies, which, at once and on demand, make some polls and present them to the world. But here they cannot say anything else, because so far the government has done everything well. 70% is satisfied, 80% is satisfied, they do everything well, they make everything perfect! So today it says here that the polling company 'OPINIONPOLL' that 52%, Mr Kikilia, ladies and gentlemen, you are here, are not satisfied with the administration of the government in immigration or illegal immigration, as we say. 52% are not satisfied! So get a message from this poll here. On August 22, 2015, Georgiadis had "twit" - because everything stays, "scripta manent" - "If you don't understand..." - and addressed to SYRIZA colleagues - "all the other neighbouring countries seal their borders, except us. And you will vote again?' Mr. Georgiadis said so in 2015, addressing the government of SYRIZA. And when we say now that we have to close our borders and protect our homeland, Mr. Kikilia, they put us in the corner and show us with the finger! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. They increased by 24% the despair trips to Greece. That's what the UNHCR calls them. And look what one finds on Facebook, ladies and gentlemen, because he's in our lives. "I'm the lion of traffic," says the guy. Amongst other things, the services offered by this type cost, Mr Xanthi, from EUR 2,500 to EUR 3,500, the head according to the benefits, i.e. taking him - in a luxurious situation - and bringing him back. In other words, 3,000 euros to ten people on the boat, it is the tarifa of the particular type called 'the lion of movement'. I urge you to look for it to find out exactly what I'm saying. I'm hanging up with one last thing. In Finland - where the Finnish are probably mad, it is not otherwise explained why otherwise they are peaceful guys - they will be imprisoned, he says, those who illegally enter the country. Progressive Finland has decided that! I put it in the Minutes for our own consideration. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, my colleagues, Mr Makre from New Democracy, Mr Thraniotis from SYRIZA and Mr Skouriakos also ask for a few days' leave because of the commitments that have been made. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u103	The House therefore approved the requested permission. I would also like to make a statement to this House. The Standing Committee on Morphic Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Following the exchange of financial communications of an agreement on the extension of the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America on the imposition of import restrictions on categories of archaeological and Byzantine ecclesiastical material up to the 15th century C.E. of the Hellenic Republic’. Now Mr. Frangidis has the floor from the Change Movement for seven minutes. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u104	Madam President, Minister, health is a key indicator of the well-being and well-being of the citizens of a country and interacts closely with its culture. It should be the main concern of each government and its policy and programme. So we cannot talk about growth on economic grounds alone and do not include the issue of public health in the debate. This is becoming more intense in recent years and we see that public health has been tested every day. Moreover, the conclusions of modern research suggest that the health situation of citizens, particularly mental health, is constantly deteriorating, while an outbreak of chronic diseases occurs. The poorest strata of the population are clearly the ones most affected. Greeks all these years receive incomplete medical care, especially the unemployed, the pensioners, the unprivileged. Access to medicine and medicine is problematic, while free education tends to be a joke, as private health expenditure on medicines and doctors is very high and reduces a large part of family income. The causes of the deterioration in the health of the Greeks come among others to add the lack of control mechanism for the quality, suitability, market and cost-efficiency of health services. There is still no mechanism to monitor the quality of tests, interventions and treatments. That is why it is imperative that medical protocols should be applied to limit unnecessary examinations and medical operations. Ladies and gentlemen, as a doctor I am, the day-to-day contact I have with the suffering cohabitant and his environment enables me to know well enough about the problems of society and see the diseases and problems of the health sector. Besides, all of us, if we make a visit to a hospital, and especially the on-call days, we'll see what the situation is. The disorganization of the National Health System and the decomposition of its structures show that the major patient of the crisis in Greece is health. The bankruptcy, ladies and gentlemen, has nothing to do with budgetary matters alone. It was also concerned with derailment in the health sector, where unnecessarily policies were implemented on the medicine and on the materials, the various companies, which were sewed by hospitals, the public health system and the private sector, which must be said to be still state-owned. The most characteristic element of derailment of public pharmaceutical expenditure on funds and hospitals is that in 2003 it was EUR 2.9 billion, in 2009 it had reached EUR 6.4 billion. In itself, therefore, health costs between 2004 and 2009 were enough to lead a country to a memorandum. We are talking today about a health bill which, initially, we consider is moving in the right direction. However, it is not going to be a bill that meets the primary issues of the Greek health system, such as development and funding, reform of the structure and administration, switching to the digital age, the development of a new pharmaceutical policy, the creation of strong primary health care, the care of mental health, the treatment of addictions, prevention and treatment of chronic diseases, education. It is therefore huge to discuss health and to the minimum this draft law topic. In Greece, when we talk about a health system, we talk about public and private. It is, in fact, a classic production model. In order to improve the functioning of this model, it is therefore necessary to involve both sectors, public and private, but under public control. This partnership will also provide flexibility to the public health system and will lead to a better overall provision of services to the citizen. More specifically, when we come to the proposed changes to the bill, the operational organisation of the CEDEFOP - EAFRD must ensure transparency, transparency, legal and rational management of funds, the attraction of new and qualified doctors to the ESS, which we have seen in recent years lose many good doctors. Article 20 provides for the clearance of the percentage of the costs incurred by pharmaceutical companies for research and development and for clinical investigations with the amount of the automatic refund, clawback. I should like to point out that this should only be done after a close check by the Ministry of Audit and it is useful to extend it to the public as well if they do logistics. But here I note the amendment that we tabled as a Change Movement today: If the EGE has surpluses, then we will have to abolish the contribution of 6% to supplementary pensions, abolish there and reduce to 4% in main pensions, and also reduce the public's contributions to take part in medicines, particularly those whose income is equal to or less than 700 euros. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. Furthermore, in the field of drug and health materials and reagents, competitions should be made centrally, because those made by the EMAS cover a small proportion. In relation to the EMCDDA and the EMCDDA, this union is right, but it is taking on a difficult and very important task of monitoring, coordinating and dealing with emergencies. I would like to stress here that tackling an urgent situation takes very little time and, in order to achieve this, the EKRD must activate - in my view - the old way in which the EKRD is working in hospitals with the telephone centres, so that we can have a quick response to the crews. Also, in relation to the available MEPs and ICUs, it is right to cover the empty positions of medical and nursing staff first in order to operate the 50 beds that do not work. Also, information on empty beds should be made by the coordinator of the clinic in collaboration with the chairman of the Scientific Council. In conclusion, I would like to say that we must make a contribution today and we need new approaches and new policies, so that we can achieve a flexible health system that moves through modern, international data, without political controls and with the sole aim of providing health services to the citizens of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u105	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr. Boobas has the floor from the Greek Solution. Here, you have the floor for seven minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Madam President. It is not, of course, the Minister, Mr Kikilias, because as a Greek solution we have been placed with Mr Heta and with President Velopoulos, but I would like to focus on the EAW. On pages 86 and 87, it is Article 32(3). First of all, I am a journalist for many years, but I want to present my experience to you, because I have worked in a private sector for two years as a rescuer. So, I have experience of this profession of rescuer. The rescuer must also be well trained, well equipped, and a psychologist toward the patient. The new bill, however, in paragraph 3, while it says that the board will be a member of the entire Greek federation of the EKA, does not require the board to be a rescuer. This is a major mistake, ladies and gentlemen, because the EKRD has five thousand people. The four and a half thousand are rescuers, the remaining five hundred may be engineers, managers, economists - this is the administration we are talking about - which the EAW must have. So on the board, then, there is a chance that he may be a non-survivor. What does that mean? If he's not the rescuer himself, the moment he becomes the bill, for the good coordination of the EMCDDA, we do nothing. It's like someone's saying to give you advice on how to drive without having a driver's license. It's Mr. Kikilia's big mistake that the issue of EKAB doesn't exist in a rescuer. He's just talking about a member from the entire Greek federation of the EKA, but he doesn't specify that he's a rescuer. We shall now go on with regard to the other composition which lays down the rules of procedure. The Rules of Procedure will therefore be defined by the ERCF and by the Board of Directors of the EBRD. There again he is not defined as a rescuer, who may be heresy. So what, then, is it going to happen? Is there going to be an internal regulation, Mr. Minister, without a rescuer of the EMCDDA? In other words, the board of directors will speak of the rules of procedure, of the rescuer, but there is a risk that he may not be the rescuer himself to speak his opinion. He's experiencing the problem. So how will the Rules of Procedure be? It is paragraph 6 of Article 12, because there is always a risk - I told you - that the five hundred others should not be the EAW rescuers. In Rule 35 now, I will tell you what is going on. There are first and second-class rescuers, i.e. there is a two-speed rescuer. Pilots in Serres Prefecture have been implemented, where in the composition of the ambulance we have rescued from the EKA and rescuers from health centers. But why, Minister, are they two speeds? Here, in order to use such a basketball terminology, as you are also a basketballer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u107	"Views"?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u108	Sure. The EAW rescuer is covered in insurance. In the event of an accident, his family will receive 100,000 euros. But the rescuer of the health center is not covered. In other words, we trust both with the same equipment, the same experience, the same knowledge - as I told you pilots and applied to the ambulances - to have two rescuers of two different speeds: one has insurance cover, the other does not have an accident. One has a right personalized to get equipment, the other doesn't. In other words, one of you gives him the guarantees, you give him the supplies, you give him the motives personalized to equip, the other does not have the right. So we're talking about rescuers in the same crew of the ambulance with different benefits. There must be a level playing field with regard to workers. We can't give each other insurance cover and the other can't. It's Article 35. I want you to see it. It's very important. This programme was piloted by Serres for two years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u109	What are the steps?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u110	"Treads" are why it separates the rescuers. One rescuer is covered to get his allowance in the event of an accident, because the Minister himself has said that rescuers are a dangerous, responsible job and are on the way. If there is an accident and the ambulance has an EKA rescuer and a rescuer who belongs to the health center, and unfortunately, we have the fatality, the family of one will be compensated, the other will not be compensated. Do you understand what I'm saying? As one has the right to go personalised to equipment, the other doesn't. I, Minister, ask you: in the committee responsible, the President of the Pan-Hellenic Federation of the EMCDDA, has come up with some issues, but has we finally taken them into consideration or have we not taken them into consideration in the dialogue, in the communication code that we should have? What do we want them then? Here, the president of the Panhellenic Federation has done this. Now, with regard to the long distances that cannot be covered by health centres, we would have to say, for example, in the Municipality of Sintic, where an ambulance should cover the radius of 50 km. I'm transferring requests that you know in hospitals. In Serres from the Cancer Association there is no place for a special oncologist to be renewed since December. You need to renew the place of the tumor, because four thousand Serres cancer patients are forced to go to hospitals in Thessaloniki if the contract of the special tumor is not renewed. And you know it's psychological. You're a doctor, you know it. On the matter of the kidney, with the kidney patients, we have a problem with Serres. We need two medical nephrologists at Serres Hospital, because we have too many kidney patients. These are issues which we need to see, at least, in regional hospitals where there are deficiencies. Against this backdrop now, I have gone to some countries and have seen that, for example in Germany, they leave it in the states, their responsibility and their own initiative. You're bored with the samari many times on this question. Some things could have been clarified. Shops with the right ventilation and the right conditions to be able to accept smokers. Otherwise, if you discuss with people who have food shops, you will see that it will be too big. The wine bars will pay fines in areas that will be banned from smoking. But look at this point, in order not to lose jobs, in specially designed spaces with the ventilation required. With regard to this budget you're putting a cap on some epidemic, perhaps, if we have an epidemic one year, a sudden flu, what's going to happen there? Can we not overcome the budget line to deal with such epidemics? There are some questions that need to be clarified. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Ploris has the floor from New Democracy and then the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 Mr Gregoriadis. Mr. Plori, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all today, October 15th is the world day washing hands and, respectively, May 5 is the world day washing hands in health areas. I am referring to this because, unfortunately, our country has a pan-European record on the part of hospital infections, which are due also to the unreasonable use of antibiotics, but - to be honest - primarily because medical personnel fail to comply with the five steps mentioned by CEDEFOP, EIAH and the World Health Organisation to be clean hands, because infections, microbes are carried by the hands. There we certainly have a lot of work to do, because even with official data we have around 10% of hospital infections, when the European average is 5% to 6%. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] There's a conversation in this bill. Since the whole debate on the subject of medicine has been opened, I shall refer to a part and this part we must have an honesty - we have also talked about it in committee - to see a reality, because many times since the Step has been taken in previous years and in the overpricing that has been done and in what has happened in the field of health. We take the view that pharmaceutical expenditure had reached six billion and now is two billion, ignoring that expenditure is not two billion, 1,945 billion. What EEA pays is 1,945. Let's see now what the SYRIZA government is spending on delivering to the Government of New Democracy and what it has received. The clawback, which little - very much everyone has learned, even those who were not experts, is essentially that it is overpaid by providers, when they are private providers or pharmaceuticals, but it means that it is expenditure. Do you know what clawbacks you're bringing to the extra-nursity expenditure? About seven hundred fifty million. That's where he'll close. Last year was five hundred and fifty. You received two hundred and fifty more clawbacks, you doubled it, and this year it goes to seven hundred fifty million. These seven hundred fifty enter into the cost of the drug. By paying for it and moving into the pharmaceutical industry you cannot say that it was six billion and became two. Oh, no. There are seven hundred fifty. Do you know what else there is? There is the patient's involvement, that is, the money the patient puts, which is still part of the cost, so we are leaving both seven hundred and fifty and going to three and a half, six hundred, three hundred and fifty. What's more? That in previous years the prescription was made under a trade name and there was no infiltration of generic. In order not to see any excesses and so that they do not think what we have heard, and from this, the Step by which one has not protected the Prime Minister from saying that it is 12 billion a year, overcoming, I will say that he obviously wanted to say another, because two billion is all the pharmaceutical expenditure, or what you say four billion more every year and you add it. But how? Was there a clawback then? Oh, no. So he obviously pays the state because he did not have a cut. The fact that the clawback has entered - which, by the way, has already been introduced by our government, initially by the PASOK government, and then by the Samara - Venizelos - has again been one of our own measures, which has distortions, but that does not mean that it does not all go to spending. Four billion spending is currently being spent. Perhaps the Minister's associates and the Minister can tell you exactly the number. If you put over five hundred million hospital plaque that has another clawback, we've reached five billion. Do not think, in other words, your numbers are far from being the number in the previous governments that said they were wasted, overpricing and anything else. The same numbers you deliver, it's just changed the mixture of who pays it, and you didn't change that. You found it and not only did you find it, but you voted against every attempt that had been made to change, because every law that was made to reduce the cost of medicine was you who voted against it. The logic of clawback - to speak frankly, because I will come to Article 20, which is the so-called clawback development - was a distortion. It's obviously not normality. I have heard Mr Paulakis and within the Commission say: 'Everything is still coming.' If that is the case, it is still not a solution to clawback, Mr Polakis. It is to be rationalized to price and to be closer to reality. Clawback is not a normality. So, you guys, this clawback, why did you increase it to all the providers in total? The logical and honest approach would be to see afterward, after we passed the first, the unruly steps, including clawback, because at the time you had no mechanisms to control the waste, to check the prescriptions. Did this thing happen? If I'm not mistaken, we remain at six million recipes a month. I don't know if they're a little bit below. So over there you found the clawback and you say "a joy is and put ten to fifteen more", either exams to private providers or extra medicines. But that's not normality. Regularity is to have real budgets and see how we will limit the waste where it takes, and there you have failed and it is too much weight for Mr Kikilia, to the current Minister, because he takes an unthinkable clawback and, quite rightly, in my view, from the first measures he brings are in Article 20 something that has started to be considered and from your own government, but it has been completed by Mr Kikilia with all this in the whole context that companies that are investing in innovation and companies that are investing in production too. We don't only care about theoretical innovation. You put a proper parameter here, Minister, and the phases to see, which clinical trials and to what extent, because these are my doctorate's words on clinical trials, because we obviously cannot say about Phase 4 that it is the same as phase 1 that we have not started and especially phase 2 and 3. Obviously, all this will be settled by ministerial decision. But we also have to go to investment projects, because I imagine we all agree that a company, whether Greek or multinational, comes and strengthens a productive structure here...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u113	Plans.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u114	No, look out. Obviously all of these plans will come out and be implemented in the ministerial decision that is a precise one, but I imagine there is an agreement to give an incentive to him who returns part of his profits, whether in innovation or in productive processes and the benefit of this being from clawback, i.e. to turn back the disadvantage and terror that exists in the pharmaceutical industry and possibly the other individuals - providers to invest above. I'm sure all this will be settled in the ministerial decision. With these considerations, when we are generally talking about pharmaceutical expenditure, about seeing it in its real dimension and its real dimension is not one, nine, forty-five and six billion. It's all the in between, the participations that have increased, the clawback that exists. We need to see at some point what this real number is that we have to consume and how we are going to cut off the overregistration. I am not a doctor, but as far as I have been concerned, in my view, a much greater problem was the non-controlling of prescriptions than possibly the part of invoices. In conclusion, of course, I would also like to mention the happy amendment that has come from Mrs Kerameo, with which the payroll regime returns, because we are in favour of excellence and the flag on 28 October will be raised by the best students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr. Plearis. The Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 Mr. Claus Gregoriadis has the floor for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today begins with a small paradox. From the outset, in its first part, it abolishes the EGE to establish in this first part immediately after EGE, of course, the difference known to all of you that our new EGE will be a legal person of private law, contrary to our former EGE, who was a legal person governed by public law. From the first moment I started reading the bill, I'm telling you, I'm being tempted by the question why you didn't change the name. Why did you leave the same arctic book? Could you not - let me say - give a completely new name to this body, which would mark - among other things - the new era - the best I can imagine for you, as you hope - which enters our health with this new EGE? Couldn't you, for example, call it 'CARBON'? I imagine you could not call it "CARBON" for good reasons. However, the CCEE is a name that was euphoric, it reminds of - let's say - the "STILLIN", is a name that one could imagine coming from the ancient Greek secretariat. She has a prestige, she has a quality. To be a little serious now, we all know here that the public sector is always the special legal regime resulting from the limitations imposed either on the recruitment and on the service situation of its staff or on the acquisition and use of resources in order to achieve its public purpose. After what I have just said, then, we fear that, as has happened in the not so distant past, again symptomically over the government of the New Democracy, we are - we hope to be disproved, but we are afraid - that a new CCTB will stand here again in health, which, like the old one, will be spending public money completely arbitrarily and with a final aim - I fear - the'mother' of the government. Let us now move on to the second article of the draft law entitled 'The objectives and objectives of the National Health Organisation'. I am sorry, Minister, to say this, because you really are a noble man and particularly sympathetic to me personally, but in my opinion this second article is perhaps the most provocative and insulting affection for our fellow citizens from all the bill you have tabled today. Why? Because it describes a gigantic series of horrific benefits and provisions from the EGE to us citizens who are indeed and truly strictly necessary to guarantee a state necessary for its health and care. All right, you'll tell me where I see provocativeness and mockery. What is absolutely essential in Article 2 is listed and legislated. Right? That is right, except that they are not implemented. Other legislation is being implemented. Because, Minister, all the experts in the field of health in this country know better than I do that in order to implement those provisions and from tomorrow's legislative provisions and provisions, not even all the budget of our Ministry of Health would have been enough. In addition, all politicians in this country know even better that the whole budget for our health would not be enough, not because it has happened, but because we have been forced for a whole decade, instead of trying to build the vital areas of our country, such as health, education, the economy, to hunt completely irrationally - and I am afraid of completely improper - primary surpluses, which ultimately absorb all our resources, ultimately absorb our own lives. So it is grief to look at the citizens in their eyes and to number them and legislate everything they are absolutely necessary to have a decent health and care and at the same time to hide them that, because of the memoranda you have signed and voted on, leaving them completely defenseless, in real life they will never see, or at least they will not see, for the next forty years, until 2060 just the decent care and health that you are supposed to be legislating on today. Let us now consider how you are supposed to legislate. Legislate, as Article 3 of the bill stipulates, that the chairman of the board of directors of such an important body should simply be a holder of a degree in higher education in the country and will be appointed by a decision of the Minister of Health. The Vice-President responsible for non-transmissible diseases - and what kind of speciality does that have? Can the President and Vice-President of the EGE, for example, be graduates of a university school of theology? Because when medicine doesn't work, we all start prayers. That's why I'm saying it, that's where the gathering is. Because there is no special provision in this bill for the specialty of these two people, it seems that they are beautiful, yes, they could just be two very good theologians. Does that make sense to you? We don't think it makes any sense. Furthermore, as we all know, the EGE will be financed, as always, solely by the Greek people. Strangely enough, however, this body will not be substantially accountable to anyone, including the Greek people, except for the final adoption of the budget and the statement by the Minister of Health again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u117	Mr. Colleague, can I interrupt you, because what you say I have in my hands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u118	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u119	If Mr Gregoriadis permits, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u120	I'd love to, but I'd like you to keep it from time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u121	I apologise for the interruption, but also for the two Vice-Presidents, the relevance of the scientific piece of health is defined. I explained that one will be for contagious diseases and infectious diseases and for non-transmissible diseases.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u122	Therefore, and because we are not here for the exchange of impressions, we should be quiet in Mera25 that these people cannot be as happened, for example, to the man who took over the administration of the NSA. These people will not be one of the same, that is, people who would simply be "administrators" of a company.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u123	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u124	Okay, we're quiet. Thank you very much for your intervention. However, I said that in the end this agency will not be strangely accountable to anyone, apart from you yourself, Minister, where you will control its accounts and its budget. All our guarantees, therefore, to ensure the proper functioning of the EGE, ultimately fall within one single human being. You will allow me to say, the memories are coming back. And why do the memories come back? Doesn't that remind you of anything? What does it remind you of? Does the government's recent draft law on our final state, this bill reducing the post-calls of the government, simply increasing by four hundred, where, in the end, this great state was accounting for just one man, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis? It seems now - I fear - that it is something of a basic, repetitive model, something like a father to this government, accountability and control, to end up with a single human being, who is either the Prime Minister or a minister, who is appointed, controlled, directed, and if necessary removed from the Prime Minister himself. For I am sorry to say this, but the first and main feature of our new government, I would almost say its mark, together with its constant tactics to open up privatisations, is an unprecedented centralism that almost always ends up with the same man, the Prime Minister, or his narrow core. It is about as if there is always a feeling in the air that "ah, ah, my child, this democracy, with its vulnerabilities, its bureaucracy, its forced and so tiring controls and its long-term accountability to its people, it would be better to modernise to something the more flexible, something more developmental", that perhaps a dozen competent political men - clearly on this occasion, sexism - would be enough - to by magic all the pathogens presenting our state, when he tries to do his job. And if our government really sees this kind of thing, is it possible in the next few months that we will see the Prime Minister or some ministers cutting off and engaging in the fines for illegal smoking in enclosed areas in our compatriots at night bars? I'm kidding, of course. Are you on the other hand not joking when this law sends uniforms, probably gunmen, to do this job? I'm sorry, but what do you think this almost surreal meeting of our teams with our nights in smoke and music, not to mention swearing? And if that doesn't sound funny to you, which at least seems to me does not seem a little disturbing to you that the police themselves through their trade unions distribute to them in every direction that it would be better not to go? Be careful, the police themselves who do not hesitate to do so with organized crime, who are not hesitant to put them with the terrorists, are concerned about this new mission. They say to all tons that they are untrained for this new task, in our view, demonstrating in the clearest way how humiliating they are part of Article 17 of the draft law. In the meantime, not to be forgotten, with one forum of two birds referred to in Article 17. Because Article 17, and commits from a valuable to the needs of the EUPM society to such activities and gives public opinion a generalized police rule, which, as we all know, has already brought marvelous results to Exarcheia, where policemen of MATs usually carry out post-night witnessing the other day, which is why I say - yuru according to the vigilance of confrontation of unsuspecting passovers or greeding vulgar against corpses, which also unsuspectingly wonders whether these people are actually men of MATs or ex-chambers who have been dressed up MATs. And, of course, much less on this situation is the responsibility of men of MATs themselves and, much more so, their political leadership, which - consciously afraid of them - has cultivated them from the beginning of your governance the belief that in some areas of our country they have exceptionally immunity of impunity and that they can operate outside the framework - the law and the decency - a bit like a state in a state. Because time's up, I won't tire you. I will only tell you that Article 21 is a very substantial and crucial article. You said it yourself, Mr Plouri, a moment ago about clawback. What does clawback mean? I shall simply say that this is a refund from pharmaceutical companies to the public, which is equal to and above the agreed threshold in advance. Article 21, therefore, enables pharmaceutical companies to offset the costs of clawback at another cost, at the cost of research and development. You're gonna tell me now: I'm sorry, is that so bad? You will tell me that research and development are obviously aimed at the common good. Do you really think in this House that the pharmaceutical company's research protocols are in no way aimed at public good and not always at the promotion of their pharmaceutical products? Hey, don't go crazy! Article 35 states the possibility of secondments by way of derogation from any other general provision. Obviously, this is about circumvention of the Financial Code in the context of the fact that this is an urgent area, but you know in public administration as far as the state is concerned, it is all urgent. Is it not tragic and the lack of welfare and specific references to patients with cancer? You know, cancer along with cardiovasculars is why we're all gonna die and you and I. Three out of five, we're gonna die of cardiovascular death, the two of cancer. So cancer is about us all directly. We personally have no reference to this whole bill. The Greek Cancer Company has already reacted. Do something, that's still correcting. So we in Mera25 have a vision of health, which is identical to that of all the citizens of this country, and it consists of mere comprehensible and absolutely necessary claims. We also demand public, universal, anthropocentric and completely free health, we call for equal access to high-quality services, efficient operation and transparency for all structures of the National Health System, from the smallest rural hospital to the general hospitals and, of course, national policies on medicine, mental health, drugs, etc. Among other things, concerning primary care, Mera25 proposes the following institutional changes: permanent wage and modulation incentives on mountainous islands and borders. All-Hellenic single digital patient management system with full medical file. Vote all files over five years. Use of open standards and an open three-year assessment code for doctors and other health professionals on an annual basis. Support the plan of local units and primary health care. Ensuring their stable funding, because'support' will say nothing. Global application of therapeutic protocols. Completion of psychiatric reform, with emphasis on the closure of the remaining psychiatric hospitals. We also have for secondary and tertiary school, but because I have been misused my time I will only close by telling you that Mera25 is currently proposing the introduction of the absolutely free Greek generosity and the return to the participations of 2010, Minister. Thank you very much for listening. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, 50 students and students and four educational attendants from the 1st Ovrias Achaias School. The House welcomes you. I have to say, although I imagine that a lot of you know, that in Ovria it is one of the largest and best festivals in the Patras region. Mrs Agathopoulos from SYRIZA has the floor and Mrs Makre from New Democracy follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u126	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is the first of the Ministry of Health to come to Parliament in this parliamentary term and as such we should welcome it. It is a bill which contains forty articles with regulations relating to EOPY, to pharmaceutical policy, other health provisions, of course articles on the establishment of the National Agency for Public Health, which has already been established, but you rename this chapter 'Recommendation of the EGE' instead of simply saying change of legal status of this legal person and only three articles on smoking, to which our rapporteur has said that we are already in agreement. You have, however, made these anti-smoking provisions very important by going into the public debate all the other issues, obviously, because you want to overcome all the previous and in particular the provisions on the EGE - the former CLPON. However, as far as smoking is concerned, you know that no matter how good they come, and no matter how good their implementation always is the problem, and we hope that this time we will have better results. As far as EGE is concerned, the former KELPON reinstates its status as private law under public law made by the SYRIZA Government. The reason you referred to the committee - and you referred to him again and today - was to deal with the urgency. We agree. The urgency must be addressed, and in particular the health needs that have arisen and arisen every day in recent years due to increased refugee flows. However, in the draft law on the actual establishment of the SYRIZA EACH, there were all the provisions necessary to do this. But because you asked us in committee to be well-qualified, we will try to do so and say that we did not reminiscent of the black times of CELPNO, the offshore of the Ministry of Health as it was characterised by the prosecutor, and that through them there were many dirty jobs, but that also served former government client relations. In order to be well-meaning, then, please tell us exactly where the urgency lies in reducing the qualifications of the President of the new institution, and indeed by removing from the bill the procedure for approval by the Committee on Social Affairs of this House. You told me in private conversation that there was no such procedure. The OKANA is NLR, but in its legislative context it is explicitly stated that the president of the OKAN is passing through the Committee on Social Affairs. So, it's in your jurisdiction, Minister, and if I were you, I would add it to a body like ETA, former CENO, with such a bad reputation and such a sinful past. Not that something has changed, of course, because the Committee on Social Affairs has a majority in the Committee on Social Affairs, and that is where the ruling party has it. So there is no substantial difference for you, but we are proposing that certain security aspects be put on the table, we do not think that this would be a bad one. So the Board of Directors, in our view, must also be accountable to the Minister and to the House when necessary. You have also not, if I am not mistaken, explicitly as to whether the EGE will remain in public accounting or be excluded from it by the new provisions. I say this because many problems have nowadays been encountered in this respect, because non-inclusion in the public accounting automatically entails the reports of accountants. Problems, therefore, were identified, such as the failure to inform the ministers about the reports of sworn accountants for the body. I will ask you a question of parliamentary scrutiny that we had again tabled by the SYRIZA Members - from those present and present me and Mr Xanthos - in July 2012, entitled 'Illegal financial transactions in the CEDEFOP'. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Ireni - Helen Agathopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But the Minister's answer is interesting. The question was raised on 12 July and the answer was given on 12 October. In fact, the Ministry 'givens' the CEDEFOP, saying that 'the delay in our response is due to the much delayed information received from the relevant Parliamentary Control Department of the Ministry of Health of the CEDEFOP'. So where he wanted to be fast, to deal with emergencies, where he didn't want to be delayed two and three months. The Minister has repeatedly asked for the reports of sworn accountants and says here that "we have never received an answer and that is why we are coming back with a new document to meet with the Board. CEDEFOP’. It attaches a number of documents asking for this information on 23 August. It comes back on 13 September and says that: 'Although there has been sufficient time since the date of submission of the request, we have not received the relevant information'. There is also something else of interest here in the answers, which makes us worry about the urgency procedure, because it seems that also as a PPP it did not serve the emergency situations when it did not want to. The issue is "Reagents for the control of blood units for the Western Nile virus". The Ministry of Health submits a request to CEDEFOP that says "In this letter I would like to point out to you that it is necessary to direct the reagent order to check the blood units for the Western Nile virus. Your mandate has already been given by the Minister on 3 August and has not yet been implemented." These are simply to be taken into account and because I think that we are not honoured with such procedures. We must ensure that they do not happen again. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Ireni - Helen Agathopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please take your tolerance very little. As far as the provisions on medicines are concerned, because you do not make any structural changes to what we have introduced, I will not go into detail. And here, however, it seems that your first concern is to control each committee, every body and put your own people in key positions. You are doing the same in the HTA Committee. In the same way, the ball and the KETHEA, a body elected by its Board of Directors through a general assembly, took place. You also come to enforce on this and disturb the operation of a model for rehab. Of course it takes the ball and the HTA Commission.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u127	Mrs. Agathopoulos, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u128	Mr President, in thirty seconds. Instead of taking care and speeding up the procedures for setting up a drug rating agency that is the next step in a proper pricing and evaluation process initiated by the previous government, and as our rapporteur has already said, we have a ready law that we can table, you are simply tired of changing the members of the committee with others of your choice. And here it will be really interesting to see who you put, because they are counted on the fingers, who know the subject. I shall end with the amendment of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food on fresh and vulnerable agricultural products. It is a matter that I know about, because it is also about producers in my county. In fact, before the elections, we made a clearing circular, in particular on wine grapes, because there was a problem with the payments of a Guennish wine producer group, as wholesalers and winemakers, ladies and gentlemen, were not allowed to pay them because wine grapes were not explicitly mentioned. They weren't willing to pay in sixty days too. So we understand that there is a reaction of payments anyway - and from the wholesalers - which I cannot know how far it exists. But what I can tell you, and I draw attention to it, is that while you are late to implement the platform, some are happy and some are unpaid. So we ask fast - and you tell us when this is going to happen - to tell us when this platform will finally work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u129	So do we. Mrs Macrie has the floor. I would ask that we keep the time, because in fact we deprive him of it by other colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the health we all see is a health in the service of the citizen, a health system that is accessible, operates and does not afflict, respect for man and his needs, and ensures that vulnerable people, especially those who are vulnerable, prevent disease and promote well-being and good quality of life. Within a hundred days and in the health sector, the government is rapidly implementing its election programme and restoring to normality many of its functions. As you have seen with unusual but imperative political diversity and generosity, the Ministry's leadership received comments and suggestions, which were in the right direction. The new Legislation of the Ministry of Health regulates: EGE interoperability with the aim of improving its efficiency and operational character, because its ultimate purpose is not simply to self-manage public health but fundamentally and systematically is also responsible for the massive work of managing the health coverage of refugees and migrants. The rationalisation of pharmaceutical expenditure and the more efficient use of available resources, as well as the uninterrupted access of patients to medical care and to more effective and innovative treatments. Uniform treatment in repayment of the outstanding health debts of the former social security institutions by the ECA and EEAA, intensification of the EAEC - EAEC, for the future as a central pillar of an emergency medical system and as a central pillar of the health sector in civil protection. The establishment of the possibility of recognition of expert centres for rare and complex diseases in public clinics, laboratories, public private hospitals, military and university hospitals and the immediate and more stringent compliance with the anti-incineration law. It will allow me to stand, ladies and gentlemen, not only because on other points, the cover for our rapporteur, for our colleagues, for the Minister was very well covered, but because it was for me and for me a personal bet when I was a State Secretary for Health. The constant campaign for the personal effects of smoking and, above all, the stimulus of the distorting perception of the collective interest adopted by smokers should be our objective. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not smoke, but I have smokers' friends. I respect their dependence and respect my right to live without nicotine. That's how we coexist nicely at our exits, our holidays, our homes when we get together. And that is not so difficult, as long as the necessary conditions are met. In other words, there is a common definition of the basic concepts in a European democracy: where they begin and end the limits of personal freedom, what is to say social culture, whether or not the application of the law is at our discretion, whether or not it is a revolutionary act of smoking in closed areas, whether it is violence or not. The non-implementation of the anti-smoking law in our country is a symptom of a very deep pathogen, linked to a distorted conception of collective interest, which is similar to for many or most of the individual interests. This means, in practice, that the smokers consider their own ability to smoke everywhere is more important than the right of others not to suffer the harmful effects of tobacco and impose their will, precisely because the functioning of the rules in our country is a relative concept. Most of them win or yell more. Besides, in the battles against the application of the anti-smoking law, personalities of art and mentality took the lead and despised with their attitude those who had some moral dilemmas as to whether it is right or not to propaganda the nicotine it kills. The whole debate on this subject is kind of like a cigarette: it is very annoying for those who are listening. Smoking is something objectively bad and that cannot be seriously questioned. Its effects exist for everyone who individually smokes, but also for all through the burden of the health system, since smokers are getting more and heavier. The non-implementation of the anti-smoking law in our country is a symptom of yet another very deep pathogen, linked to a distorted concept of the notion of a favoured state. When one finds that they are smoking in police departments, in courts and even in the Chamber of Conservatives, without being allowed and, finally, without being banned, he will easily believe that the laws are passed to be applied by those who cannot avoid them. After all, there are dozens of other examples that confirm this theory. The government, the head of the Ministry of Health decided to try to implement the anti-smoking law and allow me to predict that it will do so effectively. The reason is that those who are outlawing will pay. Very fair, very reasonable, very democratic and a step towards changing attitudes. How do we stand against others? Do we want harmonious social coexistence with universal acceptance of the rules of the legal order? Are they all ours? What about ours? It's hard to try, it's politically costing, it wants stubbornness and passion. Believe me, it will not strengthen the popularity of those involved in the project. Not at all. There may be disobedience phenomena to come out of furious smokers who will promise an adventurous struggle, perhaps a new argument in favour of the Greek exception may also be found, and the ashtray symbol of resistance can also be made. But it's worth it. This, ladies and gentlemen, was an article that I wrote on January 21, 2014 and was published in ‘SEA’. Unfortunately, it remains tragically opportune. I am pleased that my fellow Members, who then attacked me with very specific arguments and strictly, here in the House, are defending - I hope that they will not listen - this bill. I am sure, however, that the leadership of the Ministry of Health, our Government, will have much more than moral justice, the effective and effective application of the law. Congratulations on this initiative! Congratulations to the Ministry of Education for choosing excellence from luck! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u131	And we thank Mrs. McCrey. Mr Lazarides has the floor from New Democracy, and then Mr Vartzopoulos from New Democracy immediately thereafter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u132	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with this comment: I am not a member of the Standing Committee on Social Affairs, I am not a health expert. I am, however, a Greek citizen and as a citizen, I have been seeing efforts for many years, other more organized, other poorer, yet with good intentions, all falling into the void and I wonder why. It is well known to all of the health problems that the SYRIZA - ANEL government inherited us. Unfortunately, too, there is a lot to fix in Kavala. Substitution is evident in the Eleftheropolis, Chrysopoli and Prín of Thassos. The Oprynio multi-purpose regional beach office does not, in fact, function when it is necessary to set up a dialysis unit in Thassos. Of course, the situation in the EAW is, unfortunately, similar to that in the whole of Greece. So I wanted to take the floor to say: Today we have a brave effort from the Ministry of Health, an effort that is not easy and needs and deserves the support of all of us. And I don't say it, you know, by a formal party obligation. I am simply saying this because I consider health issues along with those of education to be the self-evidently top responsibility of the politician towards the citizen. As the government of Mitsotakis treats them. It is certainly encouraging that we have seen in the committee that a consensus should prevail. We are not entitled after eight years to try to hide behind our finger. We cannot fail this time to implement the anti-smoking law. Consent and conscientiousness are what we all have to show, at least in terms of realising the need. Should I say it differently? The lack of consensus seriously harms health. There is no need - I think - for further arguments to convince anyone that smoking kills indiscriminately and indiscriminately, assets and liabilities smokers. So let us stop looking for an alibi and follow the practices that are being followed throughout the planet. I think this time we'll do it for the sake of all of us. A comment on the ETA. This change from public law to private law is absolutely essential The purpose of the EGE is not only the self-management of our citizens' public health, but also the huge task of managing the health coverage of refugees and migrants. Public health under these conditions must be served nationally. I think it is perfectly understandable and there is no question that the utility of the increased reflexes of this organism is nowadays being called into question. Also, not to underestimate the other provisions of this draft law. I am referring to the transfer of the EMCDDA Operations Centre to the EMCDDA as a second coordinating centre, which will now function as a single centre, to the introduction of measures to reduce and rationalise the drug pricing process, to the proposed arrangements for clawback, which will have beneficial effects on the rationalisation of pharmaceutical expenditure. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the general consensus on the need to impose the anti-smoking part of this draft law, I would like to close with the following considerations. In my humble view, the combination of the sense of temporaryity and the traditional lack of consensual approaches sets the rug of short-sightedness and the superficial management of problems in all places. Especially in health, and especially in our country, immediate consensus is required to build up a common health policy platform that - beware of - will be supported regardless of who is in the government. Health policies must be treated as a national policy. I'm not saying we all have to agree with everything. What I am saying is that health should not become a sterile and counterproductive party confrontation, that is, confrontation. The political cost is what it has certainly discouraged other governments to move on to areas. However, let us think about this: political costs are far less than the costs that all of us will bear if we do not act together to put an end to this situation, of course, to the benefit of the citizens. So let's think well what's worth sacrificing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr Lazarides. Mr Varzopoulou has the floor and Mr Chryssomalis follows from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u134	Mr President-in-Office - and already - ladies and gentlemen, I really believe that the anti-smoking provisions of this draft law, which we are discussing today, contain a lesson not merely and generally moral, but a lesson specifically and essentially political. This lesson is that radical modernisation is indeed possible, indeed. The lesson is that, if we really want, we can. With a large, perhaps excessive dose, I must say that after the introduction into the country of the new European currency, perhaps there is no other provision that changes our everyday lives so substantially and radically. Hundreds of thousands - possibly millions - of new Greeks will change their way of dealing with the concept of their free time and change their way of fun. This will have substantial consequences. It will, first of all, have economic consequences. There will be reclassifications in the area of focus, the entrepreneurship of entertainment. There will probably be substantial losses of income for these people if you want, and therefore there will be political costs. Ladies and gentlemen, nonetheless the government dares. However, the government does not hesitate to impose a general ban. He does not listen - and he rightly does - to the representatives of professionals requesting exceptions. It is right to do so because, as the past has shown, the rule would be made. Furthermore, the Government decides and does not hear, rejects the objections of the trade unionists themselves and decides to leave control of the application of the law to the Greek Police. He is right to do, because he knows very well that, without fear of the ranger, common and professional will write the law to the older ones of their shoes, as they had done so far thousands of times. Consequently, friends and friends, it is absolutely clear that when we want to, we can. Let us now see, apart from smoking, where one could implement these possibilities of radical modernization. Such a provision is the provision on facilitating the recruitment of ancillary personnel. I would like to prevent anything from saying that the views I am going to put forward are absolutely personal and do not echo or precede anything. I believe that this provision in the future, extended and improved, could be an essential way of modernising and modernising the process of recruiting all kinds of staff and every sector in the ESS, just as it is in many countries of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, I see many doctors here. Some certainly, like me, would have worked abroad for years. You know, therefore, that in most European countries - and those that are an exception simply confirm the rule - doctors and nurses never start their career as permanent civil servants, as they are here. In all these cases - and we have lived this here - with procedures that are directly related to local administration, with the local medical and nursing service, hired by the doctor and the nurse and technician of laboratories as a fixed-term private employee. It follows a term of office, a second term, possibly a third term, and then decides whether it is appropriate, and the employer decides if he does it and then becomes an indefinite term and ends his working life there. Ladies and gentlemen, if this possibility of linking it to what is now being prepared, the implementation of the analytical accounts and the integration of DRGs fully into the method of calculating hospitals, it is possible for the production units at the beginning and all the others later to recruit by their own means, by their own payers, and by their own choice, with their medical service, medical service, administrative service and personnel, as they are doing throughout Europe, substantially changing the way in which the national health system operates, as well as the efficiency of the national health system. Another point which is also a potential element of modernisation is the pharmacological expenditure, especially as, quite rightly, the draft law in the case of the negotiating committee is, of course, sufficient for this negotiation not to remain in the hairdress of the insurance price, provided that international practices such as those which lead to competitive procedures, framework agreements with companies, which lead to the choice of one or two generic formulations per active substance for groups of certain regions and a fixed time, thus achieving huge savings. We must finally catch the 'tau...' of the pharmaceutical expenditure 'not from the tail but from the horns'. The only way is to check the final expenditure, which is caused by the prescribing doctor. It is not enough, ladies and gentlemen, for the therapeutic protocols. We need to follow European examples, such as that of German doctors' associations, which set a specific spending limit per specialty and region and which exceeds it, is subject to a penalty, i.e. a clawback. Ladies and gentlemen, all this may sound far and wide. This bill shows that when we want, we can. That's why, good for you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice presents its report to the draft Law of the Ministry of Civil Protection "Amendment of Law No 4251/2014 (A 80) adapting Greek legislation to Directive (EU) 2016/801 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 on conditions for entry and residence of third-country nationals for research, study, practice, voluntary service, student exchanges or educational programmes and the employment of indemnity assistants (au pair)". Mr Chryssomalis has the floor and Mr Cretan follows from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the Minister of Education's initiative on its amendment redefining the way the flag will be given to students. Now, we come to the regime that excellence is rewarded and that excellence is not a reciprocity. As far as this draft law of the Ministry of Health is concerned, will we ask ourselves what exactly we are legislating today, because we are still discussing a draft law on CEDEFOP, the CEDEFOP, medicines? Obviously, it is time to start correcting the bad texts that have left in the health sector in the last four and a half years the SYRIZA - ANEL administration, all the things that have undermined the level of care provided to the citizens of the country and have put off the pharmaceutical expenditure, as colleagues have said, in pre-crisis figures. It is almost four billion. The euro. This corrects the health ministry's bill. A characteristic example of this is the relevant provisions for the National Public Health Agency, the successor to the CEDEFOP, a legislative effort by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, which has never made progress and remained in a transitional situation, without being able to effectively manage the major and critical issue of public health. With this draft law, the government gives the appropriate legal form and tools to the EGE in order to properly shield and protect the health of the citizens, but also to manage risk outbreaks that may arise during the management of the migration problem especially on our islands. Moreover, the Agency has flexibility in its operation and will be managed by people with appropriate management and scientific skills. They will henceforth be able to truly serve public health and to harmonise themselves to the standards of the leading European and international organisations. In the same context, the provisions on the integration of the EMCDDA with the National Direct Aid Centre are being initiated. Now, under the administration of the EMCDDA, better coordination will be achieved, so more direct provision - and I stress this - of assistance to the people in need. I am convinced that soon we will also see an increase in both the EAW stations and the available ambulances and mobile units, so that there will be genuinely immediate assistance in mountain and inaccessible areas, but that there will always be an ambulance available in case of need. As experience of the problems my constituency, the Messiah, and many other counties in the country have shown, this is a major problem. As far as medicine is concerned, the bill goes on to upgrade the Evaluation and Compensation Committee and the Negotiations Committee, introducing arrangements that will allow not only the effective control of pharmaceutical expenditure - we must finally escape this nightmare of clawback, a measure that was temporary and has become permanent - but also ensure access to innovative medications and to the new generation of medicines. Let us not forget, gentlemen, that four and a half years on your own government did not do anything to escape this incompetence medal that the country has - because this is clawback - which our creditors have given us and, of course, you have forgotten both the evaluation of the introduction of new medicines and the negotiation of better prices. This comes to heal today's bill. It also comes to give an additional incentive to pharmaceutical companies that invest in research and development activities in our country, by legislating the clawback offsetting against these costs. They thus strengthen investment in productive sectors of the Greek economy, which is a question of the real development of this place. For the purposes of applying the anti-smoking law, I think there is not much to be said. The Government has, from the outset, committed itself to enforcing legislation and proves it in practice, without asterisks, fully respecting the rights of non-smokers and smokers. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, may I close by saying a few words about the amendment we tabled with eight other colleagues of the Co-Plathing, suggesting the abolition of Article 129 of Law No4600/2019, allowing doctors to move between hospitals co-administered by a simple decision of the commander, at the request of the person concerned, and reintroducing doctors to their earlier organic positions. It is an amendment which we have also tabled to the committee since the first time. I would like here to applaud the Minister's attitude, who has followed all the committee's procedures and with an open mind many colleagues who have embraced and incorporated them, and I am sure he will show the same spirit for this amendment. Irrespective of the reputation accompanying the feasibility of this provision, when it had been done, it is undeniable that it did not contribute positively. On the other hand, it created a serious problem in small hospitals in relation to the hospitals in the prefectures and significantly degraded the level of health services provided to the inhabitants of the PSO. For example, I will mention from the experience of Messinia. Using this provision, the sole surgeon and director of the Kyparissia Hospital moved and took a position as coordinator in Kalamata, where ten surgeons were already serving, three of them managers. Accordingly, the only nephrologist and director of the Kyparissia Nephrological Clinic moved by this provision to Kalamata, where three more nephrologists were already serving, one of which was the director. As a result, the Surgery and Nephrological Clinic of Kyparissia was left without a doctor, and in order that under law they would not close them, it was assigned - and this is truly a pan-Hellenic originality, never before - the scientific management of the two clinics in the respective Kalamata! For those who do not know Kyparissia from Kalamata it is seventy kilometers away and not such a good road network. The result, Minister, is that the EKAV has made the Kyparissia Hospital - Kalamatas Koliatsos Hospital - Pagkrati. Already the new ambulances from the Stavros Niarchos Foundation have written tens of thousands of kilometres, much more than those that should have proportionally and statistically in relation to the time they operate. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance for a minute, Mr President. So, ladies and gentlemen, I am specifically addressing the doctors in this Parliament who will understand better - the Kyparissia Nephrological Clinic currently operates with a general doctor, i.e. there are bleedings without the presence of a nephroologist, without the medical coverage of a nephroologist, while the Kyparissia Surgery has forgotten the word surgery. The machine, I think, has forgotten what the scalpel is like. I stress that the Kyparissia Hospital meets the health requirements of almost half the prefecture as regards Messinia, but also a large part of the population of southern Elias. I am tabling for everyone in the Minutes the communiqués and the Messinia Medical Association and the WTO on this issue. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Miltiadis (Miltos) Chrysomallis, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, knowing - and because you also have the medical capacity - it becomes imperative to abolish this article and to reinstate the doctors moved to their organic positions so that they can actually operate two major hospital, small hospital, the regional hospital of the prefecture, but above all to avoid giving the window so that doctors who have usually taken up the positions of managers of reduced qualifications in small regional hospitals, using this provision to move to central hospitals at the expense of the health services of the regional hospital and the doctors of the central hospital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-four students and students and three educational attendants from St. Achaias High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Cretan has the floor and Mrs Biziu follows from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the legislative process is the heart of democracy, where we are called upon to place ourselves on the draft law proposed by the Ministry of Health. I feel very honoured, because my first speech as a Member of this historic step of the House has been related to the healthcare area, which I have been serving as a surgeon for over twenty years. I can therefore say, Minister, that I am well aware of the space, the weaknesses and the possibilities we have for upgrading. The bill that we are going to vote on today is well structured, well written, because it cures ambiguities and malfunctions in the health sector, while at the same time it stimulates the creation of new jobs. Primary post and one of the important changes proposed in this bill takes over Article 15, which describes the conversion of the legal person of the National Public Health Organisation, also known as the EGE Arctic. The conversion, therefore, of the EGE into a legal person of private law comes to improve the efficiency of the operational character, as in addition to the management of public health, citizens will have more extensive management responsibilities, such as the health coverage of refugees and migrants. In fact, the new bill cures in advance the malfunctions we would have encountered if EGE remained in the form of the legal person governed by public law, Minister. We shall therefore proceed to Article 17, which substantially upgrades the effectiveness of the way in which the anti-smoking law is applied, as it enables the Greek police to intervene in cases of breach of the law. In practice this will work perfectly positively, as we all know that ELAS is identified as respecting the law and enforcing sanctions and in combination with its frequent presence in all open and closed areas, it will be a deterrent to violating the anti-smoking law. With regard to Article 18 and the banning of smoking in outdoor areas for children, I would like to stress that it is a measure in the right direction, and that is quite right, by linking it to the notion of avoiding the smoker's standard. In other words, we limit the exposure of minors to tobacco in outdoor amusement areas and, at the same time, prevent the incorporation of this standard. In addition, experts, Minister, Mayo Clinic, describes the fact that teenage smokers are mostly from families in which at least one parent smokes. Therefore, cut it and until you do it, do not at least smoke in the home, in the garden and in general in front of the child. In particular, I would say that we should not smoke in front of other family children without smokers. We must limit the standard of smoking to young children and adolescents, give them positive and healthy standards. Then Article 21 analyses the abolition of clawback and the use of the difference between agreed EEAS expenditure and private individuals of the final amount of expenditure in the direction of growth and outward-looking. I believe that this is a very positive measure and puts the legal measures together with the prosperous economic environment that is being formed. It is well known to everyone that individuals feel that we are punishing them, namely that they are punished for the weakness of the state itself, since they consider that the responsibility for overcompensation of expenditure lies primarily with the prescriptions and orders for supplies from the ERC hospitals. By abolishing clawback in those cases where the difference is exploited proven for growth reasons and new jobs, private providers will not be punished but will at least be encouraged to invest further, leading to a cycle of innovation, growth and return. Finally, Articles 29 to 35 contain provisions on the upgrading of the role of the EMCDDA and the powers to be retained in the EMCDDA. So the former EMCDDA is being maintained for the tasks of political mission and for immigration, which remains to be seen, of course, how it will evolve and whether we are going to experience a new wave as a result of Turkey's attacks on Syria. Crisis management competence is transferred to the EAW, which will lead to an improvement of pre-private and emergency care, the coordination of the functioning of the ICUs, the coordination of public and private hospitals in emergency need. Finally, I would like to point out that the EAW must be removed, Mr Minister, from the patient's testimonies procedure, a procedure which the hospital in which the patient is being transported must be fully taken over. The EMCDDA must manage the crisis up to the patient's exit from the ambulance. I think, Minister, that with cooperation and consensus, because we all have our problems in our place, we can improve the malfunctions that exist in the EKA and see how we will improve its function in terms of staff, ambulances, problems, the road network that is still very bad in many areas of the territory. To conclude, I would like to stress that this bill is trying to cure malfunctions, prevent escalation and risk crises and also lead to the creation of new jobs, rewarding innovation and development in a social and economic environment that, at last, seeks light after ten years of crisis. For these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I urge you all to vote on this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr Cretan. The next speaker is Mrs Stergianis Biziou from New Democracy, followed by Mr Melas from New Democracy. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u140	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is in the last few weeks in the discussions of all of us throughout Greece. The anti-smoking law that has been inapplicable for so many years shows the apathy we have as a society and our overall mentality. That is why, before I refer to specific aspects of the bill, I should like to express a broader thought. I, as a new MEP, and as the first woman elected to New Democracy in Larissa, a generation that was formerly designated as the generation that had it all, the generation that played technology and the internet on its fingers and that could come into contact with all the peoples of the world, the generation that would put its seal on the Second Industrial Revolution. But the crisis has come and all this has changed. Within a short time the generation that had it all turned into the generation that lost everything. It was this crisis that triggered my own motive in politics. It was precisely when I realized my need to participate actively in the reconstruction effort of our country. Watching the country literally reach a single step before the 2015 disaster, I refused to accept that we would be a lost generation for the country. All this now belongs to the past, but without forgetting it. A few months ago, the Greek people gave Kyriakos Mitsotakis the mandate to implement the truth agreement. Our country's changing page. Greece will become a modern European state, will acquire strong institutions, independent justice, an effective institutional framework that is in line with social reality. I would also like to fight for our country to change attitudes. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill also sets us in this direction. The anti-smoking law is a law emblematic, a law that signals the Greek's will to do things differently this time. If we really want the word regularity to sound perfectly normal in our country and not to be able to object or question, then we as a state must set a framework that regulates relations between us, respecting the needs of everyone. The health ministry's draft law that we are discussing today is in the right direction. It sets the framework so that it applies to our everyday life. According to recent surveys, the vast majority of Greeks believe it is a national aim to reduce smoking. It also believes that it is a cultural downgrading of the country to fail to implement this law. Almost 80% of the Greeks say angry that the state cannot protect its citizens from passive smoking. The same survey shows that 90% of smokers start smoking before the 20th year of their age, mainly as young as they are. And that's exactly what the law is coming to foresee and heal. In Article 18, special provision is made for a ban on smoking in outdoor areas when minors are gathered there. At this point I would like to present to the Practical Pan-Hellenic Review of the 'CAPA RESEARCH' on smoking in Greece, carried out in July 2017, from which I drew the particulars. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Stergianis (Stras) Biziou, presents the above-mentioned survey, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Anti-smoking law is a law on human rights and equality, the self-evident right of all citizens to health and the obligation of the state to ensure this right. Any objections that have been raised in this Chamber and those which may be heard about this matter must be considered, without, however, moving away from the core of the matter. The personal freedoms of each of us cannot be free for the rest of our fellow citizens. On this basis, and I would urge you to vote in favour of the provisions of the Ministry of Health bill, enabling Greeks to begin enjoying the benefits of a more comprehensive policy aimed at protecting our health, because the health of our fellow people is above all the health of our fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u141	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u142	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u143	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u144	Mr President, I would like to say something so that it can not be overtaken. The amendment tabled by my colleague Mr Chrysimalis, along with other colleagues, cannot be accepted in this bill, but it is in the right direction and therefore the commitment of the Ministry of Health's political leadership is that in a subsequent bill it will come here. Ministerial amendments with general protocol numbers 44, 45, 47, 48, 50 and the parliamentary amendment with a general number 51 brought by Mr Katsafadas are also accepted. The title of the draft law is therefore recast in: ‘Recommendation of a National Public Health Agency EAEC, regulations on tobacco products, other issues of the Ministry of Health and other provisions’. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u146	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u147	Is there a matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u148	I would like the floor for the amendment I have tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u149	I think the Minister was clear, but you can take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u150	I would like to congratulate the Minister for his commitment, and once again to congratulate him for responding quickly to health problems that we face in the various prefectures of Greece. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u151	Mr.Ioannis Melas has the floor and then Mr. Kostantinos Maravegias from New Democracy follows. Mr. Mela, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. Minister and Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill on the establishment of the National Public Health Agency, rules on tobacco products and other issues of the Ministry of Health. The conversion of the National Health Agency, EGE, by a legal person governed by public law to a legal person governed by private law is a significant change brought by the current government. And it is important, because the conversion of him to a legal person governed by public law by the SYRIZA Government caused significant problems as to the speed of response to the actions of the EGE as successor to the CEDEFOP, i.e. as an organisation that is the country's first line of defence to protect public health in emergencies and dangerous to the health of Greek citizens. In the current legal form, there is a delay in recruiting staff to deal with the refugee, for example, which is a problem that we are facing in time. This is a problem with the movements of personnel to cover emergency crises in infectious diseases. And most importantly, it is this. Think of what could happen if tomorrow, with the flows that exist in Greece in the migration problem we are facing, because of the recent developments on the international stage - we are called upon to tackle a serious health problem for those who are there, but also for the health of the citizens in the areas that are present in the Cyts, how could the Ministry of Health react immediately, how could the government directly address such a serious problem for public health and solve it by giving immediate and substantial solutions if this legal form is not changed? Today, then, in addition to that, we are discussing something very important. We are discussing a reform, a number of changes that we are bringing and implementing, basically now, the anti-smoking law. I see Mr. Polakis, who enters the Chamber, a remnant smoker, who also has to be in line with the new law...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u153	You get public when you mention my name?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u154	No, Mr. Polakis. I don't need to hear from you, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u155	Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u156	I am referring to you, because it has been mentioned to you and the European Union Health Commissioner himself, who described...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u157	Mr President, I want the floor on personal grounds because it goes on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u158	If you have personal views with the Commissioner of the European Union, because I am conveying his statement, I do not convey my views. He stated that if possible the Minister of Health at a press conference of the Ministry of Health to smoke in public, while in Greece they are banned from smoking in public places. So I will continue, and I will say that the implementation of the anti-smoking law is very important and that is a priority of the New Democracy. It is the commitment of the Prime Minister himself, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, that the country should now have rules on public health, that there should be a total ban on smoking in public, private spaces, but in particular in open public places where children are meeting, as we have to give children the basis. In the next generation, we must lay the foundation for protecting and protecting their health from tobacco, which causes great health problems, but also create education in the next generations, create anti-smoking education, so that as far as this country goes, smokers are increasingly being reduced. Unfortunately, unfortunately, even though the number of smokers across Europe touches 20%, in Greece we have an increased rate and it is 37%. So, from this draft law, which we are bringing today, our aim and aim are to protect and safeguard public health and increase children's health protection and to create future education for anti-smoking attitudes. Also, because it has been heard in this Chamber earlier that many catering companies may be affected by this new law, you may be sure, ladies and gentlemen, that these businesses will not be affected more than the policies implemented by the previous SYRIZA government. That is why we will be able to give these enterprises incentives and greater power to function and stay alive in order to bring bills in the next time to reduce taxation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will continue with this: we are doing all this because we have measured the problems of smoking and we are trying to implement policies which will reduce the sad figures, the sad things currently available. More than fifteen thousand people die every year in Greece from smoking-related diseases, while estimated at EUR 25 to EUR 30 million per year for cigarettes. Scientists are increasingly talking about quitting smoking and not about moving other tobacco products, which are equally addictive and potentially carcinogenic. 40% of all tobacco-related deaths come from lung diseases such as cancer and chronic lung diseases. The most unpleasant of all elements, the saddest thing is that more than sixty thousand children under five die from lower respiratory tract infections caused by passive tobacco. So I think the bill that comes today is in the right direction. It is a bill that will help to protect public health and I invite you all to vote in favour of it. Finally, before I come down from the Step of the House, I would like to refer to the Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25, who mentioned earlier that Mera25 is fighting for public and free health and that is his only position. I wonder - and I will put it in the Minutes - whether it is in his knowledge of a post entitled 'Gregory Gregory'. On the stand for fraud three colleagues of the doctor of the left". [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Melas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It refers to a private clinic, which is owned by Dr. Gregoriadis, Mr. Georgios Gregoryiadis. And I wonder if it's in his knowledge this post. And I wonder whether hypocrisy is extinct in this, or if there is any other development in this matter, which we do not know and why it is so much to combat private initiative, private hospitals. I wonder if he had this post in mind and whether he has exhausted his hypocrisy in it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u159	Mr. Mela, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u160	I'm done, give me a minute. Finally, I would like to make a reference. I would also like to congratulate the Minister for Education, which changed the flag law in primary schools and, now, excellence is a priority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u161	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u162	Mr. Polakis, are you insisting?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u163	I insist.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u164	Wait a minute, Mr. Polakis. Mr. Mela, because Mr. Grigoriadis is not here and you mentioned a post concerning his father, please be very careful, do not become a personal producer. It had nothing to do with our conversation. I also think that this issue has been resolved in court.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u165	He had to say a smart guy right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u166	Mr President, may I speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u167	Wait a minute, Mr. Mella. Let Mr. Paulakis speak, and then I'll give you the floor. Mr Polakis, you have the floor for a minute on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u168	Because I see that the story from some of the New Democracy continues, I did not intend to speak on the subject, but I will do so. Listen, Mr. Mela, the setup that they did to me in the previous period, had no precedent. The picture that you've taken to Mr. Andrews, the commissioner, you've smashed it...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u169	Me personally?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u170	Your system. The picture that showed me smoking and the Ministry of Health sign from behind was after a meeting we had with representatives of materials companies for the hemodynamic laboratories, where they were forced to reduce 25% of their sales prices. When we're done, because they didn't like any of them, they took a picture of it, and you took out what Paulis smoked in the Ministry of Health! Listen to see: The choice of smoking is a personal choice. That's the first. Second, here and in my house since my daughters were born, I've never smoked in. You guys are killing character with that thing. You didn't have what to do with all the fight we've done in the past few years to correct the system and talk about smoking. So many times, guys, report smoking, so many votes I got. Don't you realize he's not walking this thing? If you want to be radical about smoking - and you, Mr Cyranaki, who is now "line" - why don't you take a class in the schools against smoking? Why don't you make other policies? You don't understand? What Abrahamopoulos did, you will. You want to tell the policemen who are in villages, lagadia and mountains to turn the cafes and cut off a fine? That's not how this thing changes. We need to train a generation differently to change. This is a fairy tale.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u171	We did.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u172	You didn't say that. You don't. The story...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u173	Mr Polakis, you will also say that in your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u174	One last thing. Here in this House - because some things are now becoming vague - the half-courts of the New Democracy are more fanatical smokers than me. We have been forced by Mr. Tasoulus to smoke in a string. There were two candles here, one smoker and one non-smoker. And now in the smokers you've taken them off the outside that rains from the top - blows, does, shows - they're picking up forty morons over there, and that's protecting human rights. Is that right? So he can't break up there with the door to be done? I'm saying this to understand the hypocrisy and poorness of yours. Mr. Comrade, be a little more careful about some things. As far as I understand it, you will be answered by your colleague. You know what? I'm saying this because you're a new congressman. I knew your father. She was working at the same clinic I was working on. Your father was more modest. Do not cause with such style "fly a napkin". That's not how you earn publicity. Publicity is won by the project.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u175	Mr. Polakis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u176	This is to look at doing rather than flying personal insults. Okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u177	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u178	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u179	Wait a minute, Mr. Mella, because the subject has been raised. I told you. It was personal production. Mr. Gregoriadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u180	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Mella, I hoped to date that we would keep the level of confrontation politically. I'm disproved and I'm sorry about that fracture. By the way, although I was not here, I had to be gone for a minute, I would like to say that it is obvious - they probably know about eight of our ten million compatriots - who is my father and what his spirit is. He's the famous doctor of the poor George Gregoriadis. He's the man who's been operating for so many years with retina from the torture he's suffered. He's an officer of the Naval Admiral in repatriation. It is a man who should be thinking very seriously of it, whatever political party it comes from, before it is thought that he could have the luxury of sharing his name, to be caught in his mouth. It is an officer of those who have honoured their oath and overthrowded the dictatorship and so we are allowed to operate this Parliament at the moment. On the substance of the case, I have to say: Firstly, my father had a clinic with ten other doctors, one would say a cooperative clinic in the socialist known standards, in which he was thirty years old. This clinic's been closed for six years. It no longer exists. This clinic for thirty consecutive years saw the poor throughout Greece, not just Attica, all those who had no way of getting to treatment. The most important of all is the 'penalty' which is happening here - apologies for the market expression - is that I, of course, am an independent person. My name is Claus Gregoriadis so far as I have been an actor, now I am also a Member of the Greek Parliament. We have completely different political beliefs with my father. My father is a member of the SYRIZA and honors this in his opinion and mine. He's a man who belongs to another party from me and I don't understand at all, how you connect me to the things of another man, who isn't my son to even have the moral responsibility for his actions. He's my father, and he has the moral responsibility for my own actions, and I hope at the moment that you're watching me on television, that you're making fun of me, Dad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u181	Mr. Mela, I will give the Minister the floor for one minute and then immediately after you. Here, Mr. Kikilia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u182	I think that the debate in committee for three days and today in plenary, Mr President, has taken place in such a way that it ensures a minimum of consensus on basic matters relating to the good of health. I have heard here a structured, organised and correct speech from my colleague, Mr Mella, but I think, Mr Colleague, that there was no point in the last comment. So because young people have to be psychologically more ‘rich’ in their reactions, I think it would be good to withdraw the last comment to be deleted from the Minutes. There is no point in making personal references to any colleague, Mr Gregoriadis or anyone else. I propose, Mr President, that the last part should be deleted from the Minutes, as if it had not been done, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u183	Mr. Mela, you have the floor. Please take note of the last position of the Minister. Not to "birth" any more personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u184	No staff will be “born.” I think that here we are at the temple of democracy, so that we can discuss and solve our problems as democracy itself defines. Firstly, as far as Mr Polakis' comments are concerned...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u185	To talk, not to throw mud.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u186	No mud threw away. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u187	Please do not interfere with other Members. Please. Let Mr. Melas finish. Let's hear him out. Go on, Mr. Mela.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u188	Firstly, with regard to the placement and response of Mr Polakis for my face, Mr Polakis, as far as I know, since you were in the Ministry of Health after a meeting, as he said, it is in any event forbidden to smoke. Do you have any immunity arising from or do you have in your capacity as Deputy Minister? Oh, no. Secondly, the comment I made in my speech did not say so myself. I told you before. The Commissioner for Health of the European Union said so, not me. So if you want to protest about it, you can protest to him. The fact that we use statements from other officials in politics, I do not think that it makes us either illegal or irregular or shows that we have something personal with you. Let's get this straight. There's no system around here that's after you. If you see ghosts, we're not responsible for that. Your policies are responsible. The people judged you on July 7th and sent you where you are sitting right now. On the subject that has arisen with Mr Gregoriadis, Mr Gregoriadis, I want to be honest with you. I didn't mean to hurt you, I didn't mean to hurt your father... [[Noise - laughers in the Chamber]] Please don't laugh. It wasn't my intention, nor did I blame him for anything. I wondered if it was in your knowledge - and this should be taken by your colleagues and you can see it from the Minutes - this particular post. I wondered again about the fact that you told us from the Step of the House that "we in Mera25 want free and public health", and that you have relations with a private clinic. Is that immoral? Excuse me, but it's not political.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u189	In your opinion, that is, the publications...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u190	Wait a minute, Mr. Gregoriadis. Don't answer each other. Members speak by the Bureau. Mr. Mela, do you accept the Minister's advice to delete this part concerning Mr. Gregoriadis from the Minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u191	I, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u192	Wait a minute. Mr Mella, there are no - how to say this, I am sorry to say this because you are a new Member - personal defeats or censorship.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u193	The fact that I'm a new congressman...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u194	You tell me that and the other one. I think it was a good comment from the Minister, so I ask you, because I have to ask you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u195	This was indeed a very good comment from the Minister and I fully respect the Minister. From there on, however, I say again: what I said was very specific. It was neither intended to affect the colleague personally nor anything else. It was a reference to a post. I wondered if Mr. Gregorydis knew and that's what I told him before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u196	Mr. Gregoriadis has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u197	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Mella, I really wonder if you know what you're saying so long. I would like to ask you directly: in your opinion, in your maturity, in your consistency and in your form, any post in this country with the terriblely sinful history of terriblely sinful press bands, with in formation, is of importance to a judicial decision, even in the context of an interrogation procedure. What does it matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u198	I've been talking to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u199	I can tell you about a post that says I'm a donkey and I'm flying. However, I am a human being and I walk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u200	You want to lower it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u201	I don't degrade it at all. So you continue not to rescind, professing yourself to refer to a post. I leave you in the Greek people's judgment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u202	Mr. Mela, Mr. Gregoriadis, I happen to know and respect Mr. Gregoriadis' father and your father. So let's stay in the spirit both of them had. Let us stay the conversation here, which was going very well, and let us continue with Mr Maraveya from New Democracy, and then Mr Fotilis will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u203	Mr. President, can I speak for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u204	Mayor, it was a private conversation. Don't pull it any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u205	Because Gregoriadis was a Admiral, it's going to be very positive what I'm going to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u206	I imagine, because we know each other very well, but we're in a process. Let's leave it please too much. Let Mr. Maraveyas speak, and then I'll give you the floor for a second. Mr. Maraveya, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today this House is actually coming to ratify the Prime Minister's own election commitment to a universal ban on smoking in all public enclosed areas without exceptions. This is, in fact, a change of page in our country's health policy which, in addition to protecting the health of non-smokers, has as an indirect objective and a drastic reduction in the number of smokers, where our country, unfortunately, takes the lead internationally. As a doctor, I would like to believe that very soon this phenomenon will be a bad memory. One more reason for optimism was the consensus reached on tobacco products from all sides and the constructive attitude of all parties. We are no longer talking with wishing. We see a state of maturity both socially and politically. So the draft law actually leads to a new age for public health. And this is not a verbalistic but absolutely realistic approach to the solution of a chronic problem that damages Greece, and deprives a part of our society of the future. This realisation will ultimately be a victory for common sense, a victory for all politicians. I am talking about the innumerable wounds that smokes both smokers and non-smokers today. The elements of the World Health Organization reveal the size of the damage caused by uncontrolled smoking, in bars, restaurants, cafes and even children's joys. This downward course we're trying to stir up, and in this effort I'm sure the Department of Health will find us all sick. Mr President, also speaking of the state measures to protect public health, I must congratulate the Ministry's leadership of their better interventions in the first part on the establishment of the EGE. The removal of the provisions on the special account and on recruitment in the EGE deprives the opposition of any pretext and opportunity not to vote on this bill, which once again gives the public health services the necessary flexibility to deal with emergency situations and, in particular, crises with repercussions on the general population. Because it is important to remember that public health is not just another public service. At the same time, however, the Ministry of Health also strengthens transparency in the EGE by introducing management control of the Agency from the Directorate-General for Financial Control of the Ministry of Finance. These are measures which support good administration and ensure accountability to the EGE. Ladies and gentlemen, on health issues affecting the bill, we all - I think - recognise the innovative nature of the proposed measures. Pharmaceutical companies may, by Article 19, voluntarily reduce prices for their pharmaceutical products as well as the offsetting by Article 20 of the automatic reimbursement of the pharmaceutical expenditure on the costs of research and development of those companies. It is both very important measures that can mobilise market forces, create jobs, but are also in the direction of serving the public interest. These are incentives to create competition and invest in pharmaceuticals themselves, which will contribute to the entire economic activity. In the same logic, Article 26 of the EEAS as a universal successor to the abolished social security institutions goes hand in hand. These are old debts to the funds, such as the OPCD and the TIP - OTE, and others that have been pending since 2012 and before, with regard to health service providers. This is a provision which will liberalise the winding-up of cases which are going to run and, unfortunately, have been omitted due to bureaucratic claws. It is therefore very important that the special element introduced by the Minister for Health for the deleted requirements of doctors and other providers is included. It will, however, be just as important for the EEA to be able, with appropriate support, to proceed to the sluggish audit of its documents in order to be paid back in a reasonable time. Mr Minister, I also keep your promise to the previous colleague that you will also look into the question of the positions of the ESS doctors and include it in any future bill. It is in the right direction - I suppose - of all those who sign the specific amendment proposed to you. I am also optimistic that, soon after the necessary study by the services of the Ministry of Health, similar regulations will be adopted in Parliament that will extend both these and the positive economic measures relating to the clawback of pharmaceutical expenditure to other categories of doctors or health service providers in general. Because it makes sense, for example, that such a netting can also apply to those who develop new patient services or even to research, technologies or structures which fall short of our homeland, such as pre-symptoms control and care for end-stage patients. Ladies and gentlemen, no doubt the vote of this bill raises the backbone of society's expectations and of the major public health issues. But so far, the New Democracy Government has gladly surprised the citizens. I hope, Mr Minister, that, following the same course, you will even overcome the current positive expectations of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr. Maraveya. Mr. Hatzidakis, I consider the event to be over. I imagine you won't refer to this matter. It may continue tomorrow in the media, this is another issue, but I imagine you will say something anger that will calm the younger people and the Chamber. You have the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to tell you, because I come from the Navy, that there were two Gregoryides, one engineer and one doctor in the Navy. They were excellent people, of course, left-wing beliefs, but in the Navy we were looking at people who are capable and effective. My colleague, Mr Melas, did not say anything about doctor Gregoriadis. He simply expressed himself in a way that was probably not understood, namely how in a home father and son one might disagree, how one of them when he was deported happened to work or create a private clinic, while the other, his son, said that he was in favour of the public. But in homes, ladies and gentlemen, there may be opposing views. I, for example, was deeply "nostic", my daughter was "doric". What do we do? There is not even a problem, Mr President, there is no problem. And Mr. Melas, I think he realized that what he wanted to say was not understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u210	Okay, we understand, Admiral. Always in life is not just what you mean, but how you say what you mean. Mr. Fotillas has the floor, and then Mr. Cappi.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased about this bill and not, of course, because it comes to finding a solution to all the key problems of public health - no one has said that - but because it is still a bill, which is in full harmony with our election announcements and, on the one hand, these are provisions that bring the country back and, in particular, the part of public health on the road to normality, that is to say, on the road that all modern European countries follow. So let's go, since we're talking about regularity to see the first part. It is about the provisions on the EGE and, in particular, the change of EGE by a legal person governed by public law to a legal person governed by private law. I will not try to convince, nor do I care very much, Mr Blonde and Mr Polakis and his fellow believers about the usefulness of this provision. I know we can't find them in this piece, so I don't care to convince him. But that's normality. We know that all European countries have set up equivalent bodies as legal entities under private law. Because when we talk about emergency and emergency needs, we need the greatest possible flexibility to achieve maximum efficiency, to avoid reliving past phenomena from hundreds of deaths of measles or seasonal flu, or I don't know what else. It does not stipulate that all recruitments will now be carried out on the basis of real PPA criteria, in order to avoid other years such as these PHILOS I phenomena or PHILOS II. Next part of the law concerns anti-smoking provisions. I know that some of my colleagues are smiling now and you say in you 'but now what does the Light say to us, especially?' All day I've been popping up and coming over here to tell us about the anti-smoking law? But yes, ladies and gentlemen, I am a smoker, I am the first in favour of this provision. Because I may be a smoker, but I'm not proud of it like others. I don't show it in public as if it were a feat. On the contrary, I am ashamed of this weakness and believe me, there is no day when I wake up and not think, how I can get rid of it. And as it seems to me that I have failed to do so by myself, I wish a state of a mermaid in this effort. I have heard the institutions, I understand their business concerns, but I cannot say that I share them. If, in fact, every shopkeeper who will ban smoking in his shop knows that the next shopkeeper to whom the citizen will be addressed will do the same, then the problem has been solved and no professional is going to lose anything. So that's what we make with this law. We are creating an environment of healthy competition. No smoker in any store. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that anyone who does not want to ferment ten days is sifting. If we start 'no','maybe the other', 'although that', we are not going to achieve anything. Things are simple. As all other modern European countries have done so, we will do so. We'll apply the anti-smoking law. We owe it to those who don't smoke and blame us, but also to those of us who smoke, to our children and to our families. The next part concerns clawback, i.e. the possibility of offsetting the amount of clawback for individuals with developmental costs. Another measure is in full agreement with our election announcements. I have heard at the hearing of the bodies - I do not see Mr Polakis - accusing the representatives of medicines of targeting profit. But of course they're targeting profit. Does Mr. Paulakis know of any anonymous private or public company not targeting profit? And how could he anyway? Obviously, Mr Polakis' ideological obsessions do not even allow him to understand the difference between the term "profit" and the term "strong gain". It's the same thing to him. But it's not the same. He also brought in, for example, a company that creates an innovative medicine and for the time it has its patent sells it at a price of EUR 1,000 and then loses the patent the 5 euro patent, to show that this is not a profit, it is a shameful gain, when you work with a thousand or two thousand and I don't know how much profit. Well, that's the most popular thing I've ever heard. Because Mr Paulakis failed to say that the greatest cost to an innovative medicine is not that of his production, it is that of his creation. It takes years of research and hundreds of millions of funds to create an innovative medicine and many times even with dubious results. Let us not forget that, in order to create one, they fail three - four at the same time, and these are absolute losses. You will ask me, 'Do you need to defend the representatives of medicines?' No, but I need to defend my fellow citizens' right to innovative medicines. That's why I can't hear populist views. To tell you all about it, the only government to make a gift of hundreds of millions of dollars to pharmaceutical companies is that of Mr Tsipras, who changed the way in which the price of the product is fixed after the achievement of the Samara government to designate our country as a reference country with the three countries of the European Union in the two Eurozone. In other words, we took off the price from the cheap ones of the Eastern bloc and left only the exact ones. A lot of millions. That's all for the story. Now, the next part is provisions concerning the performance contract for the governors and sub-governments of health regions. Another measure in absolute agreement with our election promises. From the first moment we said that these administrative positions will be fully accountable and fully targeted. Governors and sub-commanders will be judged at regular intervals and this will affect their position and evolution, such as America, if you remember an old advertisement. The latter is concerned with the provisions simplifying and improving the recruitment process for ancillary staff in order to directly meet the enormous needs of the entire public health system. This does not mean, of course, that we are neglecting and forgetting the enormous needs of permanent medical staff and, above all, nursing staff. "We're running" the procedures so that these recruitments can be made as soon as possible. But to tell you all about it, the previous government has made few to zero recruitments of permanent staff and medical staff. These shortcomings we know well, in Patras, for example, when, at the beginning of 2017, our university hospital lacks cardio-surgery clinic because the necessary personnel have not been recruited. The results we have experienced recently and fortunately our Minister has put a bet, I would say, to solve this immediate problem. Ladies and gentlemen, the country, as I have said, enters all areas in normality. And, of course, this cannot be completed in one, two or three months. But one thing is certain. And that's not what the whole society says. Other louder, but another whisperer everyone agrees on it. It's never happened this fast again. And she believe me, it's just the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u212	MEP Mr Ioannis Pascalides is asking for a short-day leave abroad from 11-11-2019 to 15-11-2019, for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u213	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr Akiupis has the floor for seven minutes, and then Mr Tsakalotos, as a Parliamentary representative of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u214	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, with a feeling of relief and satisfaction, both as a doctor in the first line of public hospital and as a Member of the Zakynthos Region, to which I belong, we welcome this particular bill, because the legislative initiative of the Ministry's leadership is to heal chronological issues of pre-medical and hospital care. Before we go to the essence of the bill to analyse it, I would like to talk about an image in public hospitals, which is presented as I have heard in Trikala, in Serres and in various other hospitals. We also agree that this is the picture you have left, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, after four and a half years. Certainly, after three months, a hundred days of New Democracy's governance, it is impossible to believe that for all that is present in public hospitals at the moment, it is the government of the New Democracy. Another thing that we have said and, indeed, solved with this particular bill is that a very large number of managers currently in hospitals - I do not want to mention them all - have thrown a white towel, I would say, and not only do their work, but I can say that they are sabotaging the operation of hospitals at the moment. Already since the drafting of the bill in committee, I have referred to the unjustified nuisance of on-call doctors - which I have experienced repeatedly - with issues other than their valuable medical duties for which they are serving in the hospitals of the country. In particular, during the processing of a transit or the finding of a available IF bed across the territory, the present situation is extremely dangerous. The landscape of competences is blurred in total confusion. The on-call doctor plays the role of coordinator between EKAB, EKPY and hospitals. We're talking about an EMCDDA coordination centre, and in fact the coordination is made by the doctor who is on duty at the hospital. This results in long delays, which jeopardise not only the life of the patient who is currently in the hospital but also the rest of the patients who are visiting the hospital, because the doctor does not engage in his duties but is engaged in other tasks that are not in his responsibility. It is now clear in this bill that the EAW takes over and handles the process. A clear transfer of the coordination responsibilities of both ICUs and private and public health structures in the EAFRD, along with the integration of the coordination centre with other business centres, are an extremely hopeful proposal to remove the observed malfunctions. With the exclusive assignment of the responsibility of the EMCDDA and the simultaneous supply of the necessary logistical infrastructure to it, any confusion of competences is removed, a valuable time is saved, a patient is rapidly rescheduled, a physician is released and a health service is upgraded in general. At the moment, we have a time. The health coverage is not only limited to the citizens of the territory but is also extended to the health coverage of migrants and refugees. That is why it is imperative to create the best functioning conditions of the system, such as the response speed, the acceleration of staff recruitment procedures to deal with emergency crises and the flexibility in the movement of personnel, based on the needs of the organisation. Based on the experience so far, it is clear that the functioning of the EGE in the form of a legal person governed by public law did not serve the purpose for which it was intended. It is therefore necessary to revise it in a more flexible legal form. It is necessary to obtain the maximum and best benefit of this legislation - and, indeed, it also comes from personal experience - to modernise and strengthen the EAW. The EKT today is antiquated logistics and decommissioned executives. Without the necessary assistance to human resources and logistics, the provisions of the bill we are discussing may fail. In relation to the other provisions of the bill, I would like to refer to interventions in the field of medicines. The reduction of the burden of clawback for individuals "run" development and research actions opens the way, so that patients have access to innovative therapies that the research process brings. Simplification of the pricing procedure for medicinal products, which also contributes to rationalising the cost of the medicine, enables patients to receive more expensive treatment. This is undoubtedly a commonly beneficial provision. It promotes the development of research, benefits the patient by therapeutic and financial means, rationalises the system. Finally, with regard to anti-smoking law, the government without time and with determination meets the demand now from society. It is one more election commitment. It harmonizes the situation in the country with best European practices. It is worth mentioning that Greece has the highest proportion of smokers among European countries. The oxymomile is that in the country, as PIS says in his post, the ban on smoking in public spaces was for the first time in 1856 by Royal Ordinance of Otto. We arrived in 2019, with the country staying in the first positions with high levels of smokers among European countries. I think the reasons are many and now the law on the application of the anti-smoking law for the benefit of society has matured. In conclusion, I would like to mention that the civil leadership of the Ministry of Health by bringing in the first bill, in fact, solves key issues of the functioning of the system that have to do with improving health provision. For these reasons, I say that we should all vote for this particular bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, too. The Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotos has the floor for 12 minutes, and then Mr. Spiritual from the New Democracy for seven minutes. Mr. Chaakalot, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for the thirty years before the 2009 crisis we have been dominated by the neoliberal views of your own opinion. There is, of course, Mr Venizelos who does not recognise neoliberalism. He told us in one of the last speeches in the previous Parliament. And I, if I wanted to go with New Democracy, that's what I'd say, it doesn't exist. And what were the results? We know the results. These are two very important results. The first is the increase in inequalities in all the countries that had these policies. Increasing inequality in income, wealth, access to health, access to good jobs. Everywhere in all countries this was the basic result, not only quantitatively, but qualitatively. Mr Fotellas told us that, of course, the pharmaceutical business must make profits. Has Mr. Fotillas or any of you attended the debate on market distortions in medicines? So, none of you have read a single article that, when they want to make innovative medicines private business, they are not very interested in older people, why don't they make a lot of money? Or they don't care too much about people who have psychiatric problems, why isn't that money there? So don't teach us that we're populists and that we don't understand the market, when your own people, your scientists, the economists in social health policy have raised these problems and they have raised the major quantitative, qualitative inequalities. But the second result of neoliberalism is corruption. In all countries, despite what we have heard from neoliberalism in the 1980s, corruption has increased: in society, in the economy, in the public sector, in the public and private sectors. Where have you been all thirty years? Haven't you read anything? Doesn't ENRON say anything to you? Anything big scandals that have been shocked in the world? And, Mr Lambroulis, you have a problem and many Marxists have this problem. It's not just your current. We have, like Marxists, a chapter theory and how it is replaced, and there is no need for any corruption. In other words, it can work in Marx's third chapter the reproduction of capital without any corruption. You forget, however, that the word is not needed. It doesn't mean we can't. It does not mean that there are no social institutions to limit it, that they will not, whether corruption in the state or in the private sector. And so what leaves your plan is something that is extremely important, which is corruption and has emerged. And it has emerged precisely because these social institutions did not exist. That's very important. The JRC and other leftists cannot say 'We do not care, because we know that the capitalist system is with profit', which Mr Fofilas said 'and can continue'. We are concerned that if these social institutions do not exist, there will be more corruption and we will have the problems we have had and the crisis we have had. We must therefore put ourselves in a position of being restricted. I'm going from neoliberalism to what we did. We did two things in the crisis. I'm starting vice versa. First, we tried to deal with this corruption and to deal with how it is shielded in a system. All that Andreas Blonde said in his speech, I didn't really understand from your speech, Minister, if you like it or you don't like it. In other words, how do we negotiate with pharmaceuticals, how we assess medicinal products, how we have abolished the Committee on Medicinal Products? Was it positive? Wasn't it positive? Do they need more work? Do we have to overthrow that logic? Have we done enough for the armour? Haven't we done enough for the armour? Was the speech correct, the initiative of the Valletta Agreement to negotiate medicinal products with other countries? Are you going to carry on? Aren't you going to keep it up? It makes sense to an economist, like me, when eight - nine countries are negotiating because they have better power than to negotiate with Greece alone. That's what we did. In the crisis, we took measures to shield this system from future corruption. And the other thing we have done is: we have tried to tackle the problem of inequality with all the measures we have had and with what we have had and with what we have had. This through various things we've done, it's got results. There's an ELSTAT marker, which says how many people have access to a medicine, to some treatment. Before the crisis, it was 4%. In other countries it was 2% to understand. In the crisis, it's up 14%. Four percentage points were reduced in our time. In other words, people who do not have access to medicines or to treatment by four percentage points were reduced. Was that important? Was it supposed to be? Why did you say, Minister, that it had no effect on what we did. Here we have an indicator that I would like you to study and say whether it was positive and, therefore, whether the uninsured had to be insured. So in the crisis of what I am most proud of, it is that the SYRIZA government was able in these two things that were not only the result of our own crisis, but the whole neoliberal period before the crisis in all countries, to start dealing with them. And now we're coming to your governance. I ask: is Noam Chomsky right that neoliberals are neither young nor liberal? So, is the final state liberal, as you say? Aren't you worried that transparency and accountability are falling in the efficiencies jump? Has it not occurred to you that, when we change an institution by a legal person governed by public law and do it by private law, do you limit the possibility of accountability? You're not right again, Mr. Lambroulis, for the reason I told you before. It is of great importance that the institutional framework is based on how you can control a business. So, what's going on...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u217	Your law with the law brought by the government has you looked at him?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u218	Don't interrupt me. I've looked into it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u219	Make a comparison to see the articles of today and yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u220	It's very important, I'm telling you, what's...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u221	The name.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u222	No, it's not just the name. It's the institutional control framework. Others are checks on a legal person under public law and others are checks on a legal person under private law. Let me blame you directly. I understand that you come to the House in the following way: We want to put Euclid into an organization. So what do we say? To have been born in Britain, to have studied financially, to have a doctorate and to support PAOK. And then we make a bill that prerequisites, to get that position, is to be a PAOK guy with a doctorate who grew up in England. That's what you do all the time and you say it. The Minister - and I do not know him, apologise - was the first time I saw him - for Mount Athos actually said: 'This is what we found and the institutional framework in which it should be.' You have also done so in the Competition Committee, and you will do so in the CEDEFOP. Find people and then tell what criteria they should have. Is that a way? This is neither a final, nor a transparent state, nor a state that can control the corruption we have had over recent years. And that's not all. Do you want this public state to operate on public criteria? When Mr Xanthos told you about the Medical Association and about the right-wing people who are more supportive of privatising health, we heard Mr Economou who, not even much, said: 'And a little'. I don't know what your point of view is. Is there a public area that you want to protect, which you think is a problem, which is part of the solution and not part of the problem? I'd like to know that because I don't see it. In other words, I do not see the image and will to have a public place where there will be other criteria. When we put a manager, we don't just change the issue of effectiveness. The public sector does not do the same with the private, better or worse, which is the debate you want to put us into. Do different things with different values, with different principles so that there can also be a space protected from the private sector and private interests. It is this, protection, and that was before neoliberalism and there was more productivity growth, more jobs, less unemployment and more growth. Education is one of the sites, so that we can go to the amendment, which must be protected from private interests. Even the CTE, which has not impressed me with its decisions on education, the specific that Mrs. Kerameos has brought us, for who will lift the flag, says: "For God's sake...". Almost that's what the court's decision says: "For God's sake, there should be a protection against competition." Our children are not candidate consumers, potential entrepreneurs to make them compete for who will lift the flag. Isn't it a regression trying to find out who has 9.9 and who has 9.95 to lift the flag? Is this really something that takes us forward, something Mr. Mitsotakis says it's progressive? Do you really think so? Do you realize that any other is worthy? Have you realised that there is a huge difference between denomination in the sense of being two people, ‘A’ and ‘B’, getting the job the best, and denomination as illiteracy, as you have it, who want to say that those who rule us and those who have these positions are both more worthy and deserve more glory and more money and more amenities? This elitism does not work, and unfortunately it does not work for you, social alliances. Because the world after a couple of years with your own policies will understand that elitism, the restricted state, the same jobs do not create access to either a piece of the populace or in the middle layers. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] We will insist and insist, and that is why we are here, so we can look you in the eye, because we understand how we have reached this crisis. We entered this crisis because of the enormous inequalities that people have promoted with ideas like Mr Mitsotakis. These disparities create problems in the Greek society and economy, in the British, in the American, in the German. And if we do not have serious policies, which I do not see, for these inequality - all, not only of income and wealth, but also of access to medicine, health and education, for all people, for all children - you will soon have the problems of right-wing governments in Europe over the last ten years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u223	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u224	Minister, just a minute to make an announcement and I'll give you the floor. Let me inform you that Mr Pafilis, the Parliamentary Representative, will initially be given the floor, and then you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-nine students and students and two teachers from the High School Amphissos Fokidas (first Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Pafile, you have the floor as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u225	Mr President, I was not going to talk, because our rapporteur has taken all the issues, but - you see - some of them are 'growling up in the bag of soap', such as Mr Tsakalotos, permanently. Yes, he's invoking Marx too. A little restraint is needed, because now you're not opposition. You have now been tested throughout politics for all these years and you must be very, but very careful. Secondly, Mr Chakalotos is not specifically allowed to say that he is read and I have no objections - to say things that do not apply. For example, it says that the JRC is not interested in the issue of corruption. Where do you live? Aren't we interested in the difference? We participate in all the committees, denounce what we can and do. And because you were government and you're interested: First, why don't you name the shares of public limited companies to a natural person? Did you do it? Oh, no. Let's see who and what. Second, offshore. Thirdly, dismantling of secrets. These were our proposals that once, when they were opposition, were accepted to one point, and SYRIZA too. Did you do it? None of this. Did you name the shares to the natural person?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u226	Didn't we name them?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u227	Don't tell us this has happened. Bring us to see the law as a whole. So don't tell us we're not interested. We are interested in and trying - and this has been proved by our participation - what we can do at the forum and punish those responsible. But we say at the same time, from all experience and Greek, that the system works like the shell, when it's in danger, and you find closed doors. We spent nine hundred hours on 'SIEMENS' and the result, zero. The infamous German justice of twenty-seven common questions asked by the Committee of Members of the European Parliament in the twenty-fifth hour replied: 'I do not know and do not answer'. And what finally came out? The seven wise men of Ancient Greece came out saying that they were five, two of whom, both of whom, tweezers and tweezers, Talis and Milesius, two who were clearly caught in the leeks. And second, if I'm not mistaken - I don't want to say names - he's been acquitted. What do we say, though, that you don't say? Which SYRIZA does not say, because SYRIZA serves the capitalist system and served it with great consistency and opens the way in New Democracy, because he legitimised in the consciousness of a left world things that were unthinkable throughout the past period. Not to say now about anti-Americanism and NATO. NATO became good, Americans are our best allies, privatisation is good, free economy, free market. Healthy competition? Who are you telling? Where do you live? That's what you've been saying for so many years. Healthy entrepreneurship! The New Democracy says the same thing. Have you heard anyone say that it will support'sick entrepreneurship'? That's what you did before and you did the mess. And the worst of all is that you've been conservative with this payroll of a world. So we say that corruption is intertwined with the capitalist system itself, which is unfair, which cannot be honest, because it is dishonest because it is based on the exploitation of human beings by people - unless Mr Tsakalotos and Syriza have changed it over the years and made an angel society - and they cannot be accompanied continuously and will always find ways to cover up - that is why it has legislation - all these scandals. Look at the world scandals. They find one or two "Figures", sacrificed and well kept the whole game. Don't tell me that four and a half years there was no corruption. Don't tell me that the underground routes were not going on in general, which you can't catch. Besides, there's an interface. This corruption, in other words, has to do with business, with the hard competition that companies have with each other. And then some things come out in the forum and then they close them again. In fact, where are the other elements of the Americans for "NOVARTIS", as they have been found with "SIEMENS"? "SIEMENS" denounced it by the Americans who entered the New York Stock Exchange and took them to the market and when they paid, I don't remember how many millions of dollars -700 were? - It's all covered up. New evidence didn't exist. And we're talking about big scandals. Think about what happens in general. We therefore say that the system cannot and does not want to deal with corruption and cannot be honest, because it is based there. And if you want, the black money and all that falling under the table is oil for the capitalist machine to work. The confrontation we're watching here is a friendly game within the walls. And we ask: Do you accept or not accept the European Union's health policy as a whole? Have you voted for all European directives, yes or no? Do you accept - and you did - that health is a commodity, as is it all in capitalism and is it natural? Yeah, it's a merchandise. Did you make it socially good? Don't tell us! I don't want to tell you the evidence, I've told you a hundred times about how much the participation of the insured has increased in the previous period. On the one hand, it increased, and on the other hand, you say that the drugs were cheaper. They were cheaper, but they pay more for the workers and the insured because government spending was reduced. So with this policy, the common strategy - you know, we are clean in here - you honestly say that the fight is who and how it will manage and don't tell us now that you are going to moralise the capitalist system and that you are laying rules of transparency and that you are hitting corruption within that same system. We insist and will insist - and I say again - on those who have not heard this - that we fight against these scandals even find the light of publicity and some should be punished for eating public or other money, but at the same time we tell the world that in this system the situation is going to change, only if it is overturned, only when the people take power, only when the economy operates not on the basis of profit, but on the basis of meeting human needs. That's our difference. So stop this and find it with others, do joint committees, since you agree on all lines - the European Union, capitalist system, etc. - and let us be - and we are - the real opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u229	Mr President, I would like to answer for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u230	You have a minute, Mr. Chakaloto, but be a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u231	There is one way of argument that was first brought to the surface by a philosopher, Austin, the father of linguistic philosophy from the University of Oxford. And he says so. There's the point where you say it and then there's the point where you get it back. That's how your speech was, Mr. Paphie. What's the point of that? That "we're definitely doing this against corruption, we believe, we're gonna fight it" and then there's where you get it back, because the capitalist system is one, it's not changing, it's always unfair, and so there's no reason to make any intervention in it. There's the point where you say it and there's the point where you get it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u232	Again. You get it back. We will now have another kind of controversy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u233	Let me go, I didn't interrupt you. Is there a capitalism that slowly with intermediate interventions, can you make him less unfair? That's not what you're answering. When we respond to this, then we will decide whether we should make redistribution policies, anti-corruption policies. That's not what you're answering, Thanasis. You always say capitalism is unfair, and until capitalism changes, you do nothing. Are we doing something or aren't we?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u234	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u235	Now, Mr Tsakaloto, you understand that I am obliged to give the floor, and I give the floor to the floor because of the twelve minutes he had the right to use only seven. So here you go, Mr. Paphie, and here we close the dialogue between you two.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u236	Yeah, they don't need too much. So Mr Tsakalotus tells us that capitalism can become a fair social system. He's happy to hear from him. Tell the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u237	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u238	That's fairer. You didn't say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u239	Less unfair.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u240	All right, that's what you tell the world, that we will make it fairer, as you have done four years of scratching the world literally, four years that you have continued the previous policy, and now New Democracy is taking over and goes on and on with arguments that you, healthy competition, healthy entrepreneurship and human capitalism are giving it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u241	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u242	For just a minute, to speak both of my fellow Member and of the other Members who are next. Minister, Mr Tsakalote, in addition to everyone else - the ideological analysis I will not judge it, I think it is a matter of discussion and of interest who is neoliberal, if there is neoliberalism or liberalism, what freedom, which is what you have implemented or not - but because you have lied to me personally about how we find the faces and then we legislate, to tell you this. I see your notices here for the general secretaries of your administration. For the Ministry of Tourism it says “it requires simple knowledge of English language and five years' experience in matters of public law”, and at random you also found the lady you wanted to put a general secretary to the Ministry of Tourism. Depending on the other Ministries of your administration, what it has to do with the Secretary-General, What it is now about how you deal with the uninsured issues, which I said first and explained in 2014 in the midst of a humanitarian crisis at the time of a real and Minister of Adoni Georgiadis, the three-member doctors' committee was indeed in place to accept hospitals uninsured but also uninsecured people who had blocked their social security due to debts and others, but you went one step further after Mr. Polakis' legislation, accepting everyone in our hospitals and the pharmaceutical expenditure paid by the EEA. I did not, however, see, Minister, you who were Minister of Finance, giving the appropriate credits to hospitals and the EEAS so that they could bear that burden. So the ideological analysis of which we differ is good and there is a lot of discussion. I didn't see the resources in our hospitals and in the EEA, but, Minister. I'll tell you why I didn't see them. Why didn't you give it to me, Minister? And now we're running and we're not getting there. Why is there holes in the national health system and why can't the EEAS move? And with regard to the measures you said, which your government has brought, I would repeat what I said once again, because perhaps when I spoke you were not here. The World Health Organisation has brought in and proposed to New Democracy's governance, structural measures to reduce spending, without missing new technology and generation drugs to patients, and by reducing the contribution to patients' insurance costs. That's why you told us you were going to run us in the courts. Then, at the theoretical level, you applied them. Obviously, you didn't apply them and you're judged of the result, because the insurance expenditure is gone to God and the clawback has reached 48% and I spoke with numbers. And now you ask me, after four and a half years of government with concrete results, what I will do. All right, there's a meter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u244	Mr President, may I have the floor? I wanted to ask the Minister something about the amendments because I speak last and the Minister will not be able to answer at that time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u245	No, let's move on to the list. You can talk later. Mr. Spiritual, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u246	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we will talk about a bill on the crucial and totally insurmountable issue of public health. This is very important for us to understand, because, as we have said, we need to find a solution at some point and see how the years are going through. With personal experience for many years in the public health system, I think I have a good view to be able to speak to you. This bill is based on three main pillars, and the first part relates to the EGE, namely the National Agency for Public Health. Here we see the opposition particularly complaining about the change of the legal framework, the legal name of this body in a legal person governed by private law, by a legal person governed by public law. I think that here they give this change in legal form an important form of opacity. But we should understand that all these things are being done for greater flexibility so that we can speed up procedures, in the interests of public health in general. As the former Prime Minister once told us, there is no dragon in every story. So we shouldn't be so skeptical seeing some things. Here we will be and here we will also be opposition to see and judge the organization and its administration. The substance of the debate, however, has nothing to do with the name of this organization as much as with its action. It can be called CDC, it can be called ETA, it can be called whatever it wants. But what is very important is what this agency will do. So it must not only be limited to dealing with crisis situations or pandemics or other things like this, but it must also be a large body, which includes all public health procedures that may involve the population of our country and develop actions relating to risk factors, obesity, sedentary life, alcohol, smoking, atmospheric pollution and guiding and campaigning with the other institutions and institutions, such as the region and universities, so that we can face serious problems. So the action of this body must give a total change in our way of life, by preventing, exercising, maintaining, balanced diets, which are key allies to our physical and mental health, which are essential components of good living and better survival of our population. The emphasis of the draft law on information technology in the context of the functioning of this body is important. It really needs systematic recording of all the data we can have, what is called 'big data', so that we can collect all this information so that we can finally draw up the policies and interventions that really meet the real needs of our country and that will be the big step for the next day. Whether we like it or don't like it, the system as we see it now doesn't lead somewhere and we'll have a strange result and soon. The next part on this bill is smoking. I think there is no one who can question that there is no question that there is no study in this world anymore that does not give rise to any harm in this process. It is not important to be punishable or to be punishable in the smoking world. Obviously, no one should smoke in public spaces. That's self-evident. It's happening all over the normal world. We should behave ourselves in this way. But what we need to do is help all those people who really have this difficulty, and we need to find structures so that they can cut off this evil habit, or through information broadcasts, with phones, with clinics, etc. So, here we should turn our behaviour too much, if we really want to have a more positive effect. Here, then, we must again stand primary health and aim at these patients. And primary health is something very important - we will say it later - about how we should build up this health system we have at some point. For pharmaceutical policy, the bill introduces a number of positive regulations, such as the voluntary reduction in price, but mainly the clearing of clawbacks with the costs of research and development by the various companies. This is good because some of the money that companies will get back can be given to research, which will also lead to a development of our science. The truth is that in the years of the crisis, public policy has focused mainly on cutting costs and reducing the great pharmaceutical expense. However, this was done in return, in a way, of quality. We do not want to forget quality. We want to help the patient have access to the right medicine, as best as possible, at the cheapest price as possible. And that must be our main objective at all levels and like doctors and people and politicians, who want to pursue a general health policy. We heard a lot of things in the committees that we were, but also in general, about how good things were a few months ago, a few years ago. We were in public hospitals and we were fighting doctors. We may see the numbers and numbers there are many times to give us the result we want. And statistics play a role too many times. We're doing studies, we're doing research, and we know very well how you can manipulate, somehow, in them. However, the reality is that every September in the hospitals we had to gather with the administrations and beg the DSOs and the central administrations to give us crumbs so that we could take out the obligations of the year, so that the large hospitals in Athens, such as the KC, would be a disaster because they could not respond to the country's main on-call. Of course, however, there is one problem here, and we should be serious about it and not be able to come to these situations. The next and most important part of the bill - and in my opinion it is very important - is the abolition of the EMCDDA and the strengthening of the EMCDDA. The EMCDDA must take a leading role, as is done in all the other parts of the world, where it really takes on the role of the server, the diagnoser, etc. So what do we have to do here? We should be able to make support by means of air and infrastructure necessary so that we can have a rapid transfer of patients and achieve a substantial upgrade of the EMRP. The helipads might be a very good solution so that we can get patients across to different places. Also, aid with skilled staff who could quickly make a first diagnosis, stabilise the patient in the ambulance and eventually be transferred to reference centres, centers of excellence as we will have, so that we can achieve the best result and do not have anything similar to what has recently been done in Patras. Finally, particularly immediate assistance and intervention in the region where every need is essentially extraordinary, since there is no good way of communicating often with the central region. A characteristic example is the Sausage in northern Evia. There's a health center that's subordinated. The Hospital of Chalkida is two to two and a half hours away. For a patient to go, it's an adventure. Even in winter the roads are closed, there are no boats for patients to go. It's too hard. So the problem is not just medical, but there are special circumstances. Correspondingly, Karysto will be able to transfer a patient to the hospital at central hospital for about four and a half hours without an EAW to make transfers. These things we need to see. The workers there are resorting to special nights, etc., so that they can help. I spoke about the Evia Prefecture, but everywhere in Greece, the problem is the same. We therefore need strong primary care, for prevention, with emergency medical structures, so that valuable time is not wasted. It takes a mapping of health on the basis of the kilometre distances, so that this can be done in dead time as it is now and not during the period we are looking for the incident and there is the great danger. And finally, we may have to set up a trauma committee with experienced executives, which will also work as a coordinating centre, which with the upgraded EAW will help to get a patient through. I think there's still a suggestion before the ERCF from the National trauma system. It may have come to your attention, Minister, if you have not studied it. Based on my experience in the largest hospital in our country, the directions we need to move are those to see something better. Because each patient really deserves something better than what he's got today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u247	Mr. Polakis, you wanted the floor for the Minister to clarify something. Here, you have the floor, that's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u248	It concerns the amendment tabled, which the Minister accepts. It is the proposal that we have made on how the recruitments to the new legal person, the EGE, will be made for emergencies. You accepted the proposal for the electronic platform and the extension of ancillary staff to scanners. What we had seen in committee had not been in place and a number of other provisions have been included in the amendment that go uniformly. As soon as you accepted the proposal on how to recruit emergency personnel for the epidemics and an emergency need, we could say 'yes' in the article. But now you have another six - seven things in it that have nothing to do with it. I become specific: Medical Helper Reproduction Units. That's a picture. I also handled these issues in the past. The issue of the fads on the license for private clinics. Make the framework for granting the licence more flexible and for the representatives of companies for private clinics. In other words, the offences, offences and felonies, which must have been prosecuted, are being convicted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u249	This is another article, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u250	The amendment goes all the way together, Minister. Unless they are incorporated into separate articles. But the amendment goes all the way together. If she goes down together, she's all "yes" or "no" together. I too, Mr Minister, accept - because the day before yesterday we had not said that - the part you say about the payment of additional newspapers, because people have to be paid. There is also a disagreement here. You are changing a provision that we have made in relation to the fact that they can work - when we are not found by subsidiary staff from the lists - with a delivery note. Listen to me, what are you changing? One thing changes the previous one: 'In a decision of the Minister of Health'. Do you know what that means? We put this in, that is, the Minister of Health's decision, so as not to open the door to everyone entering as partners and working in hospitals or health centres or infrastructures. If you give this decisive role to a HR commander, he will accept a huge pressure under "no subsidiarys on the list", he will not declare the ASs there because "we will keep the medical office and get us a delivery note". This must be controlled more centrally, otherwise the whole process of publicity is undermined by those working in hospitals and the relationships they are developing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u251	Mr. Polakis, close up. You're actually coming in. I only gave the floor for the Minister to clarify.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u252	In short, you have put in the amendment and a number of provisions which we obviously disagree and cannot, once it is single, vote on. The same thing has been done by Mrs Kerameos - and Mrs Jufi will say so - that she raises the question of increasing credits in order to hire substitutes and, below all, puts who raises the flag in elementary school, which everyone takes 'A' and '10' as if there is no draw now, which is half the '10' class. We're talking about primary school all this time. He's messing with them. In this or you vote 'yes' in all or you vote 'no' in all. If he stands out, we'll review our position.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u253	Mr President, I request the floor. He said five things. I have to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u254	You should answer, Minister, but it's my fault that I heard you. I beg your pardon, once again, because there are fifteen Members waiting for them to speak first and look at me with a savage look. But now give an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u255	Mr President, I am here throughout the debate and the committees and the plenary, and I shall hear the last colleague as well. And I have not deprived anyone of the floor. In fact, I myself refused to speak to the committee on the last day to speak as many colleagues as possible. So that's not the point. Minister, I'm not bringing photographic orders. I'm explaining it to get in touch with. Do you agree, that if the clinics go bankrupt, are the business people in trouble and close their clinics, take the ball along with a doctor who has permission for this matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u256	That's not what the amendment says, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u257	That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u258	I know exactly what he's saying. They brought me three times, and I didn't accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u259	That is what the amendment says. If a clinic goes bankrupt if the doctor who has the assisted reproduction can have his license elsewhere and if he has to lose his license along with the clinic.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u260	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u261	That's what we're coming to cure. It's like you're telling me that you're supporting the businessman who, if his clinic goes bankrupt, can't then the doctor get permission. One part is that. The second thing about whether or not they joined together, which was a legislative improvement that I, according to your own suggestion, did not happen, Minister, was not. I think that the separate articles can be voted on. Now if you tell me that, because they are whole in an amendment, you cannot vote on them, what can I say to you? I'll see it here if it can heal. I am also unable to reply on behalf of the Minister. She told me herself that if she can do so by the end of the debate and make it possible, she is well. And another thing, to talk about a particular problem in a particular area. Only when exhausted from the ancillary platform, etc. We have a problem, you know it, and me and you, which we inherited, and it's the Megars. We're trying to find a way to cure it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u262	Your decision to remain and not to PPP administrations.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u263	I hear this, but after being exhausted on the platform, however, by the subsidiary doctors and for a particular area where there is a problem and we all know it and, possibly, there is another area. But this area exists now that a health center is closed. Let's try and find a way.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u264	This clause was in place to be used with enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u265	I get it. If you have anything else, suggest this one. I'm telling you what this is all about. It is a vast area that is currently not served. There's a health centre that's closed. If you think that's causing a problem or there's some other thought, there's no other thought. I'm telling you very honestly what this is all about.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u266	Give it to you. Don't give it to the HR commanders, because this will be extended.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u267	Mr Athanasios Lippis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u268	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill makes first interventions in the field of health and improves specific but exceptional issues relating to the protection of public health. First of all, the new National Public Health Agency, which essentially takes over all the responsibilities of the former CEDEFOP, aims to draw up a new course. Part of the restructuring is also its new legal form by a legal person governed by public law by private law by the Minister for Health. So it will now have a more flexible role in relation to the hooks that we often observe in the health system. In fact, representatives of EGE workers through the President of their union have not disagreed with the new private character in the Agency, and this is because the EGE is faced with emergencies and situations, which often require emergency solutions, such as the recruitment of additional health personnel or even the need to move staff to deal with emergencies. The new EGE as a legal person under private law will be more effective and more active where required. In addition to the final president, the Vice-Presidents of the EGE will have knowledge of contagious and non-transmissible diseases. They should be seriously qualified, graduated in the field of health, postgraduate or doctorate, but also similar experience. Overall, the National Agency for Public Health takes a very important role in the prevention and treatment of contagious and non-diseases, as well as in relation to public health monitoring and improvement for the whole population. The bill then contains provisions relating to the multi-faceted capital for Greece: the anti-smoking law. Almost every government, as we all know, in recent years has brought about a new form of anti-smoking as corrected legislation. For the first time this began with the ban on smoking in enclosed areas a hundred and sixty years ago. We all know the results very well. Today's regulation moves in completely different logic. It doesn't create another nice, theoretical account that will be left on paper only. He deals with a universal ban on smoking in closed areas, even in casinos and entertainment centres, as well as in places with lawful gambling. However, it takes another step and sets out what was missing at this time: it ensures that children do not come into contact with cigarettes even in open spaces, such as playgrounds or sports spaces, so that they do not affect the image of smokers. Finally, today's bill is finally what is needed: it clearly defines what specific services can supervise compliance with the anti-smoking legislation and within it - and, in my opinion, quite rightly - the Greek Police. I would then like to pay particular attention to the issue of lowering prices in medicines, which is an excellent initiative on the part of the government. It is a key issue, both for patients and the system. The possibility that companies will now have to reduce the price of medicinal products with a limit on generic value is a great step to see that competition in these companies finally works in the interests of patients and, respectively, a very important initiative, and that one to offset clawback by pharmaceutical companies with sums given by them for research and development, as well as for investment in the development of products and services. Companies will actually have incentives to invest in research, which can bring significant benefits to the Greek economy and jobs, as well as aiming to return Greek scientists involved in research abroad. We all know how much we are lacking in this area. Also in the right direction is the abolition of the EMCDDA as an autonomous public service for transferring Crisis Management responsibilities to the EAW. It is clear that the government is aspiring the EKP to assume an even more upgraded role and to become the key benchmark for hospital and emergency pre-privileged care, as well as for emergency and crisis management. The health system needs a coordinating body and I think that the EKRD can do this role very well. It will also be responsible for monitoring and coordinating the health system as well as for coordinating hospitals and reaching the TLP and intensive care units. Finally, it is clear that today's bill gives real solutions, which can finally work in practice, which is why we have not seen any serious objections from the standpoint of counter-population. The points and improvements, which have been accepted, are always welcome. However, the conclusion is that the provisions of the bill were carefully studied and designed to tackle definitively specific health problems. Today's bill becomes a very good start to create a better, more operational and more human health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, too. Mr Christos Kelles from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u270	Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, since we took over the country's governance, we have consistently and accurately implemented our programme. Our Government with this draft law proceeds to important areas of public health, not only through the re-establishment of the EGE, the National Agency for Public Health, and the regulations on tobacco products, but also with provisions concerning medicines, the reconstruction of the EGEB and the operation of hospitals. I will start with the EGE, as it was one of our points of confrontation with the previous government when Mr N.4600/2019 was voted on. We had at that time, among other things, pointed out that it cannot be flexibly supported and to the extent that the research activity of the Agency is needed in the form of a legal person governed by public law. This is what we are coming today to correct by re-establishing the agency as a legal person under private law. I am sure that the Agency's new institutional framework will give new impetus to scientific development and help strengthen its interconnection with the international research environment and to establish new cooperation. I come to the second issue dealt with in the title of this bill, namely anti-smoking policy. For the first time, measures are taken which aim to protect the new generation from the adoption of this custom. The fact that the sale of tobacco is explicitly forbidden to minors in conjunction with the ban on smoking in children's car, as well as in sports spaces, will, I hope, have extremely positive effects in the future. At the same time, it was time to clearly define the public spaces that are not permitted to smoke, which I think is achieved - in the clearest way, through the specific provisions. Furthermore, this draft law includes arrangements that change data in the pharmaceutical sector for the benefit of society. On the one hand, it allows marketing authorisation holders to voluntarily lower prices, which will lead to improved competition and cheaper products for consumers. On the other hand, provision is made for the offsetting of clawback and hospital pharmacy expenditure on research and development expenditure. In simple terms, ladies and gentlemen, when we say that we will link research with production and the labour market, we mean it and do it in order to shape the appropriate conditions to prevent Brain drain and to promote the development of the knowledge economy in our country. Speaking of which we referred to clawback, Minister, I will once again say, it has haired my tongue, that something has to be done about labs, doctors, clinics, etc. We were government in 2012-2014 that we imposed under conditions that are not smooth and we are the ones, I think, who must set the good example again and improve it. In addition, the remaining regulations on medicinal products contribute to the savings of resources, while the provisions on the clearing of EEAH’s dues and hospitals favour the rationalisation of budgetary expenditure and you are welcome to do so. With regard to the reconstruction of the EAW, the merger of the EMCDDA with the EMCDDA is well done and should have taken place for some time, and the transfer of staff to the recommended operational preparedness of emergencies is aimed at upgrading public health and adapting it to the complex, modern challenges. In particular, by recasting the purpose and redefining its administrative organisation, as well as the establishment of the self-employed health business department in which a single business coordination centre operates, it is assessed that all organisational and operational safeguards will be ensured in order for the ESAB to respond with the utmost effectiveness in both everyday and crisis situations. Besides, we are still making a commitment that is crucial to upgrading the operation of our hospitals. We introduce public management and set targets to be implemented by the governors. Those objectives will be provided for in the contracts of the Governors and their failure to achieve them may result in the early termination of their term of office, provided that it is implemented. Of course this is an intersection, which I am sure will also become a model for other positions of responsibility in the public sector, Minister. In addition, I should like to close by addressing the two issues dealt with by Nov. 44/2 Amendment of the Ministry of Education. First of all, the appropriations for the school year 2019-2020, i.e. the financial resources for the assistants and school-leaved teachers, as well as the special teaching and assistant staff, and the payments can also be made by the Public Investment Programme. We should also point out that this year started very well and with far fewer gaps than previous years; secondly, with this amendment we are restoring the symbolism of excellence in elementary school, which had been abolished in SYRIZA and which it has reappointed by introducing the flag drawer. It is not a ceremonial, ladies and gentlemen, excellence and dignity. Our flag consecrates struggles, sacrifices and values, which are translated from generation to generation. Each student raising the flag elevates and communicates to the local society the labors of all their classmates and is chosen as a signifier to represent their school and our values, the values of all of us. And I wonder about Mr. Tsakalotos, who is intelligent enough, as he mentioned before in his speech that students are competing for who will take the flag. The flag is just a moral reward. This is what we are restoring and for these values our Government is fighting to deliver to our children a Greece, which will become increasingly clear every day through strengthening policies, which are the pillars of the social rule of law and of human development, such as education and health, which are significantly strengthened by voting in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u271	And we thank Mr. Kelles. Mrs. Merope Jufi has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, although I come from the health sector, which I have served for many years, I will speak exclusively about the amendment tabled by the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mrs Niki Kerameos, concerning two issues that have seen the light of publicity and which are the choice of city-based signifiers, but also the increase in the appropriations for recruitment of teachers and assistants. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we did not have the opportunity to discuss these regulations where the committee responsible, namely the Committee on Forums. Unfortunately - and I say again - the Minister of Education refused to convene the committee to discuss these provisions there, although we have also made a public request to the President of Parliament and to the President of the Commission, Mr Stylian and I have to admit that they both saw this letter positively for the meeting of members of the Committee on Morphic Affairs. So parliamentary order and democratic rules were not respected and there was the choice of important and crucial provisions for education to be dispersed in bills from other ministries. Tomorrow we have other critical, very critical provisions in the Ministry of Development bill. You will allow me to say that this does not honour parliamentary order, because we believe that it is a wrong policy and we hope that it will not be repeated and, above all, that this effort will not be consolidated. So I come to the two amendments to which some of my colleagues have referred. The first is an increase in the available appropriations for the recruitment of assistants and school-leaving teachers in general, vocational and special education. The regulation on its own shows that there are huge needs of the educational system at staff level and despite the placement of the previous speaker, Mr Kelles, as we have also tabled in multiple parliamentary questions, and we and other parties of anti-population, do indeed have very great needs. So we say yes to the increase in appropriations, since there is a problem of subsistence of schools, which is something we have seen in the previous period, and that is why we have given the Government of New Democracy a loan of thirty-six thousand assistant teachers and other staff. We also predicted, despite the country's financial difficulties, an increase in expenditure on public education after ten years of continuous reductions. We have introduced rule one on recruitment and departures, with the aim of stabilising and strengthening the educational system and, of course, providing for a permanent appointment of fifteen thousand teachers and teachers. The new government has effectively cancelled these tens of thousands of five hundred necessary and ongoing assignments to education, while the public expenditure set at 2019 of the EUR 22 million for the four thousand five hundred recruitments is at risk of being lost if these appointments are not made by the end of the year. Therefore, the accusation that we did not register for the ten thousand five hundred nominations and one euro in the budget is not correct because it is known that what the previous government could do and did by decision of the Ministerial Council was to enter these appointments in the medium term of 2019-2022. However, we are provoking the present government to tell us what amounts it has entered in the budget which in a few days' time will see the light of publicity - in the preliminary draft, we have not seen that - since it insists that it is positive in increasing public education appropriations. The argument put forward by the Ministry of Education's leadership that the actual needs of schools should first be measured with these credits, which we are voting on, is clear that it has been exhausted. Here are the real needs and need to be met here today. I come to the subject of the second amendment, which is the issue of flag and the procedure for selecting flags in primary schools. Our view is that the abolition of the draw between all pupils and pupils - we are talking exclusively about primary school - is important because it is well known that it is a situation - and most of the colleagues and parents know it - that competition is increasing and, unfortunately, the flag is degraded by a symbol of unity in a reward. Unfortunately, this fuss is wrong and hides the fact that in primary schools over 90% of students get '9' and '10' degrees, i.e. excellent. The abolition of the draw therefore excludes very few students and rather children with some special educational needs or children with learning difficulties. In practical terms, the whole debate is being held to exclude two or three pupils from the twenty, since the rest have the "excellent". This effort is therefore an exclusion policy and a new excellence is built, where the choice of the signifier between pupils with a difference of 0,1 or 0,2 of the unit. Is that what we want for primary school kids? I ask you, and I want your honest answers. However, let me say that the reasons for the regulation are others. Firstly, the government is investing in the wisdom of excellence towards SYRIZA in an attempt to unleash the positive work of the previous period. The sensitivity of excellence of the New Democracy ceases when it comes to placing high grades within the state mechanism. We had the opportunity to see it in the placement of the NSA commander, who had no degree and became a special legislature or other public bodies, where the conditions change according to needs. In addition, let me say that this is a choice, an attempt made by the government to reassure its conservative audience, which feels betrayed by the post-election acceptance of the Prespecies Agreement and the handling of Macedonian, as well as the treatments in refugee. For these reasons, however, it is not necessary to "pay" primary school students and to be bored with anachronistic and dangerous ideas. However, the debate is even more complicated, because there is also the decision of the Council of State, which, with its rich legal background, is known by the Minister of Education, where it clearly says that the performance of pupils cannot be a decisive criterion for the choice of the flagship in primary education, and other means of reward need to be found. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, I would like to point out that the Minister of Education today has also sent us a letter, asking the schoolmaster and me for an effort to open up dialogue, debate and exchange of views. I shall submit our reply to the Minutes, so that this House can be informed. I would like to say, however - and with this in mind - that we believe that the place to be taken in this debate is the Standing Committee on Morphic Affairs. Of course, we will respond to every proposal for dialogue. We are open to dialogue, it is enough to clarify the content and not to be an alibi or an excuse for circumventing parliamentary procedures. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Merope Jufi, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] As a start of the dialogue we expect the Minister to withdraw the provisions and submit them to the Ministry of Education bill, that is to say, to bring them to a debate in the Committee on Educational Affairs or as a last resort, these two articles that go down as a single amendment will be voted on separately so that we can all vote in favour of the transitional strengthening of the public school by recruiting substitutes and well-trained teachers in general, vocational and special education, pending the strengthening of the public school with the permanent appointments that they need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u273	Mr President, I would like the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u274	Mr. Minister, before I give you the floor, I would like to inform the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-eight students and students and a training session from the High School of Amphissia Fokidas (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, the parliamentary procedure and the Rules of Procedure, as I have been informed, say that all of this, the amendment brought by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs by Mr Diadiarios, the two amendments brought by the Minister, Mr Kerameos, and my own, are considered an amendment. I really don't get it. It is, of course, the Rules of Procedure and the parliamentary procedure. So all this should be voted on, ladies and gentlemen, as one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, Minister. Mr Dimitrios Kouvellas has the floor from New Democracy. Here, Mr. Couvela, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u277	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many debates are taking place and, of course, very much ink has been poured out in particular in recent years of the crisis on health issues and the expenditure on it. Some even come to render our country’s overboring to health requirements. It is indeed one of the areas that has been most affected by this difficult period for our country over the last decade. Of course she was literally paid for by the great patient who is not Greek citizens. We're coming to today's draft law. Minister, in fact, with the interventions you are proposing, you are proving returning to the normality that has begun since 7 July, and we are sure that it will continue rapidly in other areas too. One would stand out in today's health ministry's bill two particularly important issues. The first concerns the conversion of the National Agency for Public Health, the former ERIC, by a legal person governed by private law, with the aim of an integrated health action programme that both citizens and health institutions of course need. Of course, the provisions on the effective implementation of the anti-smoking law are also important, even if they do not like so much for us who are less or more smokers. We must not forget that recent measurements have shown that two thirds of even the smokers themselves want the law to be implemented, which in itself says too much. In a favoured state, ladies and gentlemen, we must not forget that everything starts from respect for the rights of our fellow citizens and, of course, from the absolute application of the law in the functioning of the rule of law. In this place we must at some point start working in simple, so that we can look and deal with the most complex issues. The first part of the bill we are working on concerns the former ERIC, the Public Health Agency, which is transformed into private law, as is done in all modern health systems today. At the same time, innovation and related activities in the health field are being strengthened by mergers of bodies that have proved ineffective, as their operation has had nothing to give anymore. It is not just us of the Coupling or of the government and of the camp that the bill and the conversion of the National Public Health Organisation into a legal person is moving in the right direction, but the scientific bodies and health organizations involved and placed in the committee. Finally, the areas of public health in this area are good to continue in a climate of consensus, in a wider agreement climate. And it seems that there can be something like this from the debate here in the House today, of course always with the particularities that different parties might have in their view. With flexibility, therefore, private sector is now attempting to improve the efficiency of the Agency's operational health, since the ultimate purpose is not only to manage public health but also, nowadays, to extend to cover the health management needs of a young, but important, population of our country, that of the refugees, the migrants who are here. Some have characterized their presence in waiting and hosting centres as a health bomb. It is something that we need to monitor very closely and take drastic and effective measures. At the same time there are other areas in which the agency is active. I think that more technical details have been developed by the specialists. The anti-smoking law, the other important platform of this bill finally comes in a comprehensive form to cover other areas. As a lawyer, I begin by referring to Article 21(3) of the Constitution which the State wants to ensure for the health of citizens first of all and, of course, to take care of with special measures to protect the youth, youth, old age, third-age, in other words, the disabled - that is, our compatriots, our fellow citizens with disabilities and particularities - and of course with the care of the most deprived. This is what is happening, ladies and gentlemen, with this bill. Any arrangements are being closed. I would remind you that since 2002 there has been the relevant anti-smoking law and only in the last two or three years has the House legislated on it - more than ten times since 2008 - and we are still discussing whether it will be possible to smoke close to minor children up to 12 years old, in closed sports and entertainment areas, even open. Anti-smoking culture and education are, I think, something, Minister, on which we must lay a special foundation. We don't find out about America. It must be in cooperation with the Ministry of Education in our schools and universities, which is the place to be protected privileged, that this philosophy and the need to maintain health in our population, when life expectancy is at risk of shrinking in Greece as well. With the huge demographic problem we face, we will have more health problems ahead of us. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To conclude, Mr President, I would like to make a reference to the EKRD and the empowerment that is being attempted through this draft law. I think we all have an image, we have an opinion on how loaded the EKT is, how difficult the workers have to deal with every day. The lack of equipment, ambulances and staff makes the lives of workers difficult, but also jeopardises the lives of citizens. Here, then, the bill comes to rationalise and stimulate the functioning of the EMCDDA, which will now be one of the main pillars of the emergency medical system. Health is a good of invaluable value. It's a state duty, a conquest, a citizen's right. As such, therefore, it is dealt with and raised with the new policies of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. I think we have nothing but to support and vote for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, too. Mr. Nikolaos Igoumenides has the floor for seven minutes from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me make it clear that our country's over-finance is not due to health requirements, as some previous colleague said. It is due to the needs that emerged because a lot of money from Greece with participation and political decisions went to the funds of "NOVARTIS" and "NOVARTIS" which break down the area of health, infrastructure and construction, the armaments sector. Ladies and gentlemen, what we have not heard that the government is coming to do with this draft law by the Members of the House. And there were several of them who came before me. One was competing with the other and we were too far away: we solved the problem of drugs, we solved the problem of the EMCDDA, and we restored normality in the country. The bill caused the happiness of some colleagues. I use phrases from the speeches that preceded my own. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, let's look behind the flashes that lighten up to photograph another of the finest for the commander of Mount Athos, let's see a little behind the smoke of the cigarette being cut. In my opinion, ladies and gentlemen, the first and most important feature of the draft law we are debating today is that the government is reintroducing the status of the legal person of private law for the National Agency for Public Health. With this bill, an important institutional section of the SYRIZA government has been undone in this important public health sector. The first question, Minister, is why you are doing this. In our question, which is addressed to the government, the representative of KINAL goes out and says "to have good administration" and the Minister "to have flexibility". Why - I come back - do we have an estimate that the administration of the EGE was not good as a legal person governed by public law? If you have any such evidence, we can hear them. Do we have any evidence of ETA malfunction? And don't tell me now the example of the courier's payment that took the samples for the emblem's virus. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, we expect answers, which do not satisfy us so far and make us return to the question, the answers we do not find - if you like - in the explanatory memorandum to the draft bill. Of course, waiting for the answers, the memories of the sinful CDC wake up. CEDEFOP was a tool, it was a road to cofinance media and workers in it. It was a money-laundering instrument. It was a source of interactivity and corruption. It was an element of the construction of this disgusting - apologies for the expression, so our people consider it to be a customer-state built. Such administration you dream of - and that's why you're changing the legal person of the EACH? - or such flexibility? If we wait for your answer, of course, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot help thinking about the other news that has come to us. The administration has changed and the self-insurance of the CEDEFOP has been abolished. Why? Why are you doing this? Looking for answers to these questions, I can only think of what he said as a major member of your prolongation, gentlemen of the New Democracy, Mr Vorides: "Let us take institutional and administrative measures...", he says, "Let the defective ideas of every form of left not threaten us again." This really disgusting doctrine is the fact that it crosses your action, but now do we exaggerate? Will the legal person of the EGE determine the shield of the system and state against the Left? I'll come back. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, let us talk about the substance. Two policies have always been confronted by health: one which seeks to extend and make greater use of space in the private sector, against the other one that is involved in the public health sector, which seeks to extend and increase the level of space in the public health sector. The right-wing policy in favour of the private sector and the left-wing policy in favour of the public. These two lines also clashed during the memorial period by you, as a government, when you implemented a policy brought by the public health system to the limits of the operational collapse, which caused our two and a half million fellow citizens to be excluded from the benefits and services of the public health system, which transferred a great deal of costs to the workers. It was the policy that you wanted to implement and which found the troika pretext, as your Vice-President said, and even claims it today, because I have not seen it withdrawn: 'If we had no troika, we should invent it'. That is the policy you have implemented, that is where you are moving and these two lines are conflicting today. Of course, I can only restrain myself when I see the change in the administration of the CSE when I see the change in the legal person of the National Public Health Organisation and when I combine this with this information - the SYRIZA rapporteur said quite clearly in his initial speech - which the trade unionists of the New Democracy are promoting at the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association, regardless of whether the Minister has an institutional or not. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that we in such a direction, in such a political direction, cannot participate. That is why, in itself, the article that changes the EGE's character is a reason to vote against the bill. We are voting against the bill, as we will stand against and against every manifestation of the neo-conservative raid you are planning, as we will stand at the front line to defend the conquests of the period 2015-2019. You should know that, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group will be at the forefront of the effort for a democratic and progressive mark in Greece of the new, after the memorials, era. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, too. We continue with Mr. Andreas Michaelides from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the first bill submitted by the Ministry of Health on matters relating to its field of competence. On this occasion, I would like to quote what we have already declared as a political area in our opposition to health issues, namely that we do not intend to engage in micro-party quarrels which do not have a real political impact and, above all, do not concern the very needs of both the general population, namely the receiving health services and the workers in this area. Furthermore, that our compass will be to protect and continuously strengthen public health as an absolutely necessary component of a fair social state, aimed at serving the needs of many, with institutional care for the weakest. On the basis of these principles, then, we are placed in the bill we are debating today. Let us look at its provisions, starting with those that we in the first instance consider positive. These are the provisions of Part Two relating to smoking bans and the application of controls, particularly in sanitary shops. It is clear that the application of the anti-smoking law over the past few years has been problematic, to some extent also because of social behaviour and perceptions, but it seems to change. Apart from the abolition of the exceptions to smoking bans, which have also been made necessary by judicial decisions - let us not forget - the delegation of control to the police seems necessary at this stage to implement legislation. Nevertheless, care must be taken to ensure that this House is able to meet the new tasks properly and effectively, as the representatives of the police have pointed out at the hearing. In the first place, we are also in favour of the part of the bill which provides for the absorption, in essence, of the EMCDDA by the EMCDDA, which, in terms of coordination of services and the improvement of its effectiveness, is reasonable. Of course, it goes without saying that a number of measures will be required by the Ministry to ensure the operational readiness of the EMCDDA to assume these increased responsibilities. I would like to point out, on the occasion, the problems of staffing which the EESC faces, particularly in border regions, such as the islands of the northern Aegean, where there is certainly also the issue of increased health needs, due to an increase in the population of refugees and migrants. I come to the provisions we are critical of, despite some improvements made by the Minister at the last meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs. I begin with the forecasts on the medicine and, in particular, on the voluntary reduction of drug prices. I would like to comment here on the fact that, despite the reduction in the cost of medicines, which can actually be incurred by such reductions, there is a risk that the development of oligopolistic structures in the drug market will arise. I should also like to point out that the issue of the ejection of pharmaceutical expenditure after 2000, and especially 2004, is well known and bears specific political responsibility. But how is the retention of pharmaceutical expenditure, in other words, whether or not there are specific interests to others, is important. During our governance there has been an important effort to consolidate common rules for all, targeted by granting discounts and care for smaller domestic pharmaceutical units and generics. It should be pointed out that there is a risk of this being anticipated, so that, in the long term, these branches, particularly generic, will be affected, which means that in the short term some price reduction may occur, but in the long term, there will be a substantial increase in pharmaceutical expenditure. I come to the provisions relating to the EGE - former ERIC - the importance of which in many cases explains our negative vote in the bill. One can make a number of comments on the changes planned in relation to the organisation's structure and administrative function, established as a legal person governed by public law with our recent law. For example, as a sole qualification - other colleagues have pointed it out - the chairman of the board of directors is to hold only a higher education institution's degree, without any reference to other expertise required by this post. Our main objection, of course, concerns the change of the legal person of the EGE. This change, a few months after the new organization was created by our own government, raises serious questions to anyone. These questions are worryingly intensified if one calculates the CEDEFOP’s sinful past over the former governance of the New Democracy. The smuggling of public money, the phenomenon of corruption, which is under judicial investigation - so that we do not forget - was facilitated precisely by the private-law legal person who had the CEDEFOP. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance for a minute, Mr President. This is because the legal regime made it possible first to a certain extent to exclude CEDEFOP from public software in 2012. It is something that we canceled by an act of legislation, to remind you, in December 2015. Unfortunately, we have not heard an explicit assurance so far from the Ministry's political leadership, although I and other colleagues have asked the Minister for this, during the debate in the committee, that there will never be such an exception from public software. If combined with the recent autocratic intervention on the board of the CECH, which directly opposes the very therapeutic philosophy of this Agency, one could say that we are talking about a coordinated attack with a clear conservative, ideological mark on regional so far structures of the Public Health System. Let me end by commenting on the last statements by trade unions of the New Democracy, with the approvals here by Mr Economou, who in essence are plunging the core core, the same as I would say the National Health System, in the version that these can be formulated as proposals. I would like to make it clear, Minister, that such a logic for us will be a casus belli in which we will be resisted in every way. Not only will our political space do that, but I am sure the whole of Greek society and the majority will, if not all the democratic progressive forces of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u282	Before giving the floor to the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Bukokokoro, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Tsakalotos, has requested the floor for a minute. I'll give you two minutes, but be consistent. Mr. Chaakalot, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u283	Thank you. I think the problem is technical and I hope it can be resolved, Mr President. We have an amendment from the Ministry of Education that has two articles which are not just of relevance to each other, but are not even divided. One, I remind you, has to do with the financing of assistant professors, and the other article is about who's gonna lift the flag. We have asked these to be separate. They have come to an amendment and are now together. I understand from discussions that I have done with the Minister that he understands his logic because we want to vote separately. I understand, too, from talks with the Minister that she also understands the logic of being able to vote on them separately. But now I hear that for technical reasons they cannot be separated today. I would ask you, Minister, in consultation with the Minister to withdraw this amendment. After all, the Minister has other amendments to the Ministry of Development bill tomorrow, so it is not a problem, because where she supports all other amendments, she can also support it. I really think, in good faith, that you and Mrs. Kerameau don't want to blackmail a vote. It is quite different and I think you understand that each Member of Parliament has the right to support one another and not to support the other or to support both or not to support either. It is not right for this amendment to have two articles and for us to be forced, when we disagree with one another and agree on the other, to make a decision. Please, untie it. There's the bill tomorrow. I do not see a technical problem so that you cannot be ready for this solution tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u284	You were consistent in two minutes. Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy Mr Christos Bukokouros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u285	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, since the debate that has taken place, despite the attempt of the Officerial Vice-President to put the ideological mark on the draft under discussion, particularly on the legal form of the new organisation, the agency that remains itself in the name of itself, there was a debate I would say production. This positive direction of the debate was also provided by the Minister's attitude to accept the remarks and improvements proposed by several officials of the Officership. Apart from the legal form of the new organisation, what we should always be interested in is the substance, especially when we talk about the sensitive health area. We have all now realised that the new National Public Health Agency aims to tackle both the permanent outbreaks of pathogenicity and the permanent problems that we are facing at all times in the field of public health, but is now, in its new legal form, more flexible than the severe shield to deal with chronic non-transmissible diseases that are now as serious - and a shield that can face this arrow of transmitted diseases, the epidemics that are at risk of becoming pandemics sometimes. The first pharmacodynamic arrow by recording and treating and rain from arrows that usually occur in such emergencies. So it works with two shields. That's the point, that's his flexibility. We all know that we have to deal with emergency situations and it is not just the wave of refugees and the growing refugee and migration flows. There are other issues we face every year, particularly in the winter months. We know that these agencies should have greater flexibility or, if you like, their effectiveness is based on flexibility and rapid decision-making in order to deal with emergency situations. I think that with regard to recruitment and all this on the operational part, things have been cleared up by the Minister responsible. A number of remarks were also accepted there by the opposition parties. We believe in conclusion that it will be a more operational system, a more operational organisation which, in any case, will be judged in practice. From there on, I think a large part of the debate has been consumed in the anti-smoking law. We all know that many efforts have been made in the recent past, some even go back to a very distant past, a hundred to fifty years more. None of these efforts have succeeded, so that we are today the last European Union country that has no regulated smoking restrictions. Our rapporteur, Professor Stefanidis, said that the effects of smoking are perfectly measurable worldwide with 8 million victims a year, 1.2 million passive smokers. And since no one has the right to take away human lives, I think that's why we've found a common component and beyond the micro-differences, we all agree on the philosophy of the law. Besides, two-thirds of the smokers are demanding the application of the anti-smoking law. I think that here in the House we have made a very good start. It's not the same image as it used to be in previous years. Smoking is now permitted only in a particular outdoor area. It's completely changed. And the place that makes the legacy must always operate with the power of the example, emits the example. I think that steps have also been taken within the House. Why have previous anti-smoking laws failed? Previous anti-smoking laws, in my view, have failed because they did not guarantee equality, they were not distinguished by universality and coerciveness, if you like, together. In other areas it was applied, in other non-shop species, to some other non-shops. And when discounts and exceptions begin, the law ceases to apply, becomes inactive and does not work. A law that has no coerciveness and measurable results is lost over time. This law, therefore, is distinguished for its universality. We are sure that it will also bring equality to this issue. What guarantees the effectiveness of this law? It is guaranteed by its horizontal application. Smoking everywhere is prohibited in all enclosed areas, without exceptions, with strict fines. It's true. Even for people who are essentially subjective, we are introducing the concept of objective responsibility, namely for shopkeepers. And that can create some injustices, Minister. I'd like to see it in the first or second year. Let's see the weaknesses and the law is always corrected. It would be desirable to leave the concept of objective responsibility for shopkeepers and go to subjective responsibility. They're not law enforcement bodies. However, if exceptions and discounts start, we have said so, the anti-smoking law will not apply anywhere. We also see the possible weaknesses and possible malfunctions that will be created. This is the first time we have been talking about universality and we are talking about horizontal implementation and, therefore, of efficiency of the measure. And because a number of fellow Members have heard the idea of going to a system where shopkeepers will choose whether or not their shops will be smokers or non-smokers, I would say that in the hypothetical case that all shops choose to be smokers, then the anti-smoking law is not automatically abolished? Where will the anti-smoking law apply? We're too late and we need to take steps quickly. Perhaps some measures and some provisions will look strict, but I believe that they will work quickly and any corrective steps will be taken in the future. After all, we are in a country where the "banks outside" is in force eight to nine months a year and in some parts of southern Greece, perhaps more so, so it is easier to implement the law. We also all know what "inside" means and what goes on to say "outside", what goes on to say "hot" and what goes on to say "extreme space". It has been attempted to create some impression that smoking in pergolas will be banned. Of course, when the pergola is closed and has created a second store and it's enclosed, closed and housed, we're not talking about open space. There are examples of France, Italy and other European countries where smokers come out in a sheltered area, which is certainly not enclosed - because then it is closed space - and smoke their cigarettes and go back to the catering area or the entertainment area. We can therefore come to an understanding of what each concept means. It is the same concept, each one separately, quite clear. I think the Minister said so too. Mr Minister, in closing, since I wish you the leadership of the Ministry of Health, which will produce results with the anti-smoking law, I would like to say that in our country they smoke around 30% of adults. Isn't that so, Professor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u286	37%.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u287	That's how it is. From this rate, I told you earlier that 20% to 24% are asking for the anti-smoking law to be implemented. After all, the smoker has no interest in facilitating smoking. If it's inhibited, it'll damage his health less. I therefore think it is giving a positive signal today. Already most shops and in my constituency, Magnesia, the vast majority have been implementing the measure for several months, but also in the capital and many regions of the country. There need not be islands of exceptions, whether they are geographical or professional, because that is why the effectiveness of the law is erroneous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Mr. Bukowo, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u289	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u290	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u291	Having asked something by the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Tsakalotos, I was informed now - although I do not like to make the postman but, anyway - that because there is a national holiday coming and the law must be able to be implemented, it is not possible to go to the Ministry of Development, half the amendment or the whole amendment. The Ministry of Development bill will be successful and will come to the House and will be completed in the next ten days.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u292	Eleftherios Avramakis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin by addressing the Minister, and I will say that I cannot give him the sincereness and effort, during committee meetings, to incorporate part of the observations made by the Civilian Opposition Officer in relation to legal remarks and corrections. This alone, however, is not enough to agree naturally with the bill submitted by the government and I shall argue about it. The most critical political choice of the bill brought by the Government and Minister Kikilis concerns the conversion of EGE by a legal person governed by public law into a legal person governed by private law. This will surely lead to the cancellation of a significant reform of our public health sector, and this brings about the overthrow of this institutional resolution and the reintroduction to a regime of opacity, immunity and prudence in terms of the functioning of the former CEDEFOP. Our country lived in the years of the memorandum a cruel austerity imposed on Greek society and caused an unprecedented loss of property and a deterioration of the standard of living for the vast majority of Greek society. In fact, our country practically experienced a cruel bankruptcy. The causes of bankruptcy are many. The responsibility for bankruptcy, however uncomfortable it is with the account of the dominant economic and political elite, is burdening the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, regardless of how they are divided into every party. The policy implemented under one or other pretext has shaped bankruptcy conditions. One of the political areas, the PASOK, suffered the consequences of elections and political consequences. On the contrary, the New Democracy seeks and says in public the restoration of order and the return to normality, but omission of course tells us that it was the normality that caused the country's economic, social and political bankruptcy. SYRIZA, as well as fighting and enslaved the years of his government, managed to save the country from bankruptcy, to reintegrating large social groups into active society, to rescue and strengthen both the social state and the incomes of the overwhelming majority of the Greek people. People on the sidelines, faced with poverty, found a valuable ally for their survival. The public health sector is perhaps part of the comprehensive examples of good governance of the previous four years, when hospitals from deficits became surpluses, when the EEAO budget covered all needs, when new public health structures, such as primary health care, were developed, when hospitals significantly improved their services. In the planning of the previous government, it was also the proliferation of human resources that manages health structures, a policy of recruitment after many years of declining staff. The New Democracy was both electionally and post-electionally claiming that it received burnt land in the health sector. As in other critical areas for the functioning of the State, so in the public health sector, he tries to hide the fact that he was not prepared to govern, through previous government communication practices. But the moment comes when the false image that the government deliberately cultivates is revealed. If he did receive a burnt land, he claims, in the health sector, the first bill that the relevant ministry would bring would not be what we are discussing today. The situation cannot be as dramatic as government officials describe in public health and the bill that actually comes into being are arrangements and small interventions as to the effect they may have on public health. The government will be judged politically and for this reason, by the provisions it brings to the vote, particularly as regards the National Public Health Organisation, since this is also the most important political object of the bill. He attempts, he says, to turn to normality, to that normality that ultimately caused the country's bankruptcy. In the area of public health it has been shown that Greek people's money and money have been depleted by the insurance funds. One of the many cases of smuggling public funds was the CEDEFOP. Operating in full opacity regime and with no control ever there was, CCPVO was converted into a party and ministerial service office, recruiting staff for the offices of ministers, funding all kinds of existing and opportunistic media, funding and cultivating the image of public persons, politicians and statemen, creating companies with clients of CCPVO and various business shapes financed by CCPVO. The government of SYRIZA, when it took office in 2015, in addition to the licensed funds it received, in any case hostile attitude at European Union level and a difficult negotiation that resulted in the summer agreement of 2015, except for the management of the humanitarian crisis caused by the Memorandums by 2014 and in addition to the responsibility to take the country out of the memoranda and bankruptcy, with society upright, was also responsible for dealing with all those diseases that the parties of systemic power have eroded. One of the great diseases was CEDEFOP, which was abolished. The National Public Health Agency was established in its place. A substantial difference in relation to CEDEFOP was that it was a legal entity governed by public law and therefore had to account for and control, among other things, for the management of the money, but also for the recruitments it made to meet its needs. The Government of New Democracy today, returning to the regularity it serves, transforms the National Public Health Organisation into a legal person governed by private law, in practice providing it with the flexibility it had in the CIF. The road opens up again so that this organization can not serve its purpose better, namely public health, but that it can serve its own political leader. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] At the same time, the prestige of the administration is downgraded after the scientific council that exists is abolished and we have contributed to both the administration and the state in developing public health policies and tackling health crises. Apart from the abolition of the scientific board, however, even its commander no longer needs to be a person of high academic qualifications and recognised prestige in the field of health, but may be a mere graduate of any cognitive object. This creates all the conditions for the conversion of this organization into an organization that will perpetuate the customer party state. In practice, remove any way of control and transparency around its operation and its management, and of course, you are significantly undermining the qualifications of the people who will take over its administration, with all the consequences that may have for the possibility of an emergency health. As far as the provisions on anti-smoking law are concerned, I believe that it is necessary to protect children and minors from exposure to smoking, even as a picture, not only as passive smoking. Prohibition of any form of smoking in children's concentration areas is correct and must be ensured and all specific forecasts supported. Obviously, these provisions do not serve the government record of burnt earth. My view is that we need to shape a culture in the new generation and directly to legislate on the anti-smoking campaign through the educational process. As far as medicines are concerned, it is really strange that the Minister personally assumes the exclusive responsibility for deciding on the members of the Committee on Medicinal Products. The 'NOVARTIS' scandal seems not to have helped the fans of normality to learn something. Without any suggestion, the Minister will decide on the persons who make up this committee, degrading from the outset and its importance and its work. If you were not satisfied with the previous process based on academic criteria and had the guarantees of creating an increased prestige committee that would not be easy to influence or exert pressure in all directions, you could propose improvements. You choose to decide for yourself and, of course, bring the exclusive responsibility for the persons you choose. As far as clawback is concerned, we wonder, when you electionally promised to reduce it, did you have that in mind? There are currently mechanisms for cancelling clawback with the vague wording of research goals and investments. Is there, first, a limit on this impairment amount of clawback or not? Will the EEA budget be smaller and how will it be strengthened? What constitutes research and what investment? Have you prepared the relevant ministerial decisions or not? Finally, with regard to the abolition of the EMCDDA and its transfer of powers to the EMCDDA, although the philosophy of creating a single pillar for civil protection is in the right direction, the method of this unification is at serious risk. I am referring, of course, to the fact that all the responsibilities of the EMCDDA are transferred to the EMCDDA, but the staff of the EMCDDA are transferred to the Minister through a new management set up at the Ministry of Health. You continue for some reason to add officials to the central structures of the ministries, to the offices of the political leaders of the public administration, and you are provokingly stalling to increase the human resources where there is really a need to serve the real needs of society. The question therefore is why, while the responsibilities of the EAW are growing, the staff of the EAW do not increase accordingly. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Finally, by making a mention, I will say that we have implemented a policy in the field of health which was the main aspect of the universal coverage of the population by establishing access for insured persons to the ESS, with L.4368/2016. We proceeded with the deletion of certified tax debts, costing 28 million euros, arising from hospitalisations of uninsured patients by 2015 and frozen an additional amount of 150 million euros. We proceeded with the abolition of the Pentecost in hospitals, we significantly strengthened hospitals to permanent, subsidiary and contract staff through OAEDs, largely renewing medical equipment. To close, I'd like to report to my county as well. Serres Hospital covers more and more needs with less and less medical and nursing staff. The previous government had planned recruitments of scientific and administrative staff that we hoped would meet all the needs of the Serres Hospital, health centers, as well as the primary care structures of the county. Can the government finally answer us with a clear timetable, when will doctors and nurses be recruited, while responding to what will happen in the medium term? Members have mentioned the problems we have in either paediatric or oncology, with the presence of the oncology to be renewed, whether in paediatric or in a series of clinical trials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u294	We continue with Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou from SYRIZA, who has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u295	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was very struck by the fact that a number of colleagues from New Democracy have chosen to exhaust their positions by mainly speaking of positive, admittedly, anti-smoking provisions. Less - on a voluntary basis, in my opinion -, with terrible deficits, has been mentioned on the issue of a political substance born by the EGE and its conversion into a legal person of private law. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the Presidential seat.]] I also regrettably found a surplus of attack on the events of the SYRIZA government term in the area of public health. Once again we heard how badly SYRIZA was allegedly doing things in the field of public health, how mismanagement took place in previous years. In any case, it has been very much described that the Government of New Democracy has received a skull place on the part of public health. Is that the reality? Is that the truth? I think that things are somewhat different and I shall refer to specific examples. The reality is that we have introduced universal access for all uninsured citizens to public health structures, while at the same time abolishing the pentacle in hospitals and, at the same time, delete all the debts of uninsured taxpayers who had been assured of the tax. How much was that money, ladies and gentlemen? It was 28 million euros. The truth is that the expenditure threshold has been increased in the country’s public hospitals by EUR 400 million each year. The truth is that the EEAH expenditure limit for medicines and other public health services has increased. The truth is that the funding of public hospitals by EEAS increased, with a reversal of funding and redistribution of funds from the private sector to the public sector. The truth and the reality, ladies and gentlemen, are that the broken primary health care has been rebuilt. Until today we have a hundred twenty-seven local health units. The reality is that we have secured the supply of nineteen state-of-the-art CT scanners that fully meet the needs of health hospitals throughout the country. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we must speak with examples in our policy. How, then, were the main political options of the previous government reflected in all the laws of the country? I will, for example, bring my special homeland, the Magnesia Prefecture, Volos. In particular, therefore, Magnesia in "Achilopoulos" Hospital from the previous leadership of the Ministry of Health has acquired a coronary, a surgical bank for the implantation of pacemakers, a special ultrasound, orthopaedic and surgical equipment, acquired a magnetic tomograph, an X-ray digital band. All of this stemmed from the central political choices, the ones you describe as having created bleak. But the truth is that Volos, at least, has enabled a secondary hospital to perform a role and function of a tertiary school. That's the reality. These were captured by the central choices of the Ministry of Health's previous political leadership. Another sad thing, too, which really saddened me to hear it. There were colleagues - not all - from New Democracy who, in order to substantiate this disastrous position regarding what SYRIZA has done in the health sector, referred to the hospital governors, appointed by the previous head of the Ministry of Health, as a saboteur, who want to sabotage the operation of hospitals, and want to strangle them. Mr Minister, thank God you're here, because I really have a good intention to you. I want to bring in a specific example. Some of your colleagues have said that the commanders that SYRIZA has appointed are saboteurs. Recently you have appointed the new administration of the 5th Health Region. One of the first acts of the new administration was the revision of the budget of the 5th Health Region, resulting in the "Achilopoulos" Hospital from the initially agreed 1.100,000 euros, to be available until the end of the year 100,000 euros to meet the current needs and services provided! 100,000 euros are available by the end of the year! The truth, Minister, - I have asked a question through the parliamentary procedure - is that both Mr Xanthos and Mr Paulakis had approved and launched specific recruitments of doctors and other auxiliary staff for the Achilopoulos Hospital. Sixteen - seventeen doctors, about twenty nurses. They've all been frozen! The truth is that for the new medical equipment we have acquired and for the new parts of the revised organisation we have approved, it needs people to work on it. All this had been launched, it had been approved. There's nothing going on. They've all been frozen. Who's the saboteur? Who strangles public hospitals, Minister, right now? But let me also come to the bill at issue. I will say that it is good that you have incorporated, Minister, all the comments made by the Qualified Opposition, in particular in the ADP recruitment section and the recruitment of the ASP staff for the Agency through the electronic platform. But in fact, and in good faith I am telling you this, I have not understood and have not been convinced of why you brought the sixteen articles on EGE which are almost identical to our own provisions. The only thing that changes is its legal form, by public law, you did so by private law. One argument I have understood so far, which I also do not know whether this House can convince. You say that 'we are making it a legal person of private law, because that will have the necessary flexibility'. So, when it was public law, he didn't have flexibility? Wasn't he able to deal with emergencies? I cannot understand where it emerges that private law will be more flexible, more adaptable to the emergency needs that may arise. Minister, and I repeat it, it is recent the ugly and dark past of this particular organism. I think, therefore, that, in a private legal form and with an amendment to accept positive interventions from the Officerate-General, you may then reintroduce - not you, one next, one of your predecessors, a Member of Parliament who will propose - from the 'blueboard' dark aspects for this body. I recognize the good intention. We are not yet convinced, however, that its private form must be more flexible and more adaptable to the critical needs that may arise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u296	Mr Emmanuel Thraniotis has the floor for seven minutes from the Radical Left Coalition.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that today in plenary, but also in committees, a fruitful debate has been held in a positive climate. I cannot, however, be tempted to comment on a position which says that for the first time so much has been done in such a short time. Indeed, for the first time, the law was changed to be able to adapt to the qualifications of the commander of the NRA. For the first time the 'prosecution of Macedonia' has become 'Agreement, which should be honored'. For the first time, the refugee is a "geopolitical problem" and the SYRIZA that opened the borders is not responsible. For the first time, the tragedy in Matti is due to the conditions of climate change. The look of the moon doesn't just have one side. And finally, on the issue of the signifier. Why should we be able to deprive a child who has not taken 'excellent', but'very well', of being able to feel proud by lifting the Greek flag? Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law, despite the fact that comments have been taken into account and that legislative improvements have been made by the Minister, continues to suffer, in our view, because it expresses governmental philosophy, a different political approach, that of neoliberal policy, which is contrary and hostile to everything that is public. The proposal of the party expressed at the General Assembly of the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association and welcomed by the committee chairman is to enter private doctors from the back door, opening the way to privatization. It's an indication of intentions. If you do, Minister, you want to strengthen the public health system, recruit staff and give incentives. This draft law attempts to return the EGE to the previous private law regime, a period during which it is controlled for mismanagement and corruption. It is characteristic that at the meeting of the Triumphant Court of Appeal on the CEDEFOP case a few days ago the prosecutor proposed guilt of the accused in the case of the hundreds of illegal, retaliatory recruitments, while he noted that recruitment was a political choice and the defendants acted as executive bodies. At the same time, he called the CCCTB to offshore public and ruffles. The bill is, therefore, another attempt to return to normalities which caused several million euros the Greek state and contributed to the bankruptcy of the country and to the state that we received in 2015 in particular in the health field: a health system that was struggling to stand on its feet, leading to the staff remaining after the successive shrinkages, as well as the shock with the dismissal of two and a half thousand doctors from primary health care. The result was to create a sense of insecurity for the citizen, who was already being tested by the crisis. Free health benefits, especially for uninsured persons, charged the recipients of health services with 178m euros of which 28 are tax-certified, while the remaining 150 have been frozen and have not been sent to the taxpayers. The stabilisation and strengthening of the public health system was our choice. It has been strengthened by new recruitments of medical, nursing and paramedical staff using all possibilities. The EMCDDA was strengthened with ambulances and staff. In addition, intensive care units were strengthened with over 100 beds. Repeal of the 5 euro ticket to hospitals. They were boosted with valuable medical equipment several health units, with modern axial and magnetic tomographs, coronaries, linear accelerators, pet scans, dialysis equipment, etc. and all this in a strictly restrictive economic framework. Finally, I should like to mention the important intervention in primary health care by creating a hundred and twenty-seven local health units. In this bill there are provisions in a positive direction and we will support them, such as the combination of the EMCDDA and the EMCDDA, Articles 29 to 35. In Article 29, we observe the transfer of staff from now on to the Ministry of Health Operational Efficiency Department of Public Health. In our view, the first priority should be given to aid operatingly in the EAW itself. As far as smoking measures are concerned, stricter control and prohibition are concerned in enclosed areas, but also in places where children are frequent. There needs to be control and enforcement, but, ladies and gentlemen, if we really want to set an example for reducing smoking and its consequences, let us start from this Chamber the anti-smoking campaign in practice, banning smoking in Parliament. Finally, let me point out an incomprehensible act beyond all logic. The abolition, by means of an act of law, of a legal person of a self-employed, self-employed person of the CEC, which is transformed into a legal person of private law. Really, why did you move on to this energy? To satisfy any request for appointments? What else can one think of an administrative board elected by universal suffrage, which provides the services of the unfamiliarly, that the management of his finances is characterised and good and that his work is universally recognised in an area that offers proven social work? The question comes back: why? Unless it is true that the President's position expressed an interesting person unliked in your resignation. Ladies and gentlemen, let me close with what the Minister said, that either private law or public persons make a difference. I fully agree with you, except that here we are not legislating for the specific persons and the example of the CEDEFOP is a characteristic case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u298	Mr Christopher Boutsikakis has the floor from the New Democracy. You've got seven whole minutes, Mr. Buchikaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u299	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's draft law is an extremely important issue in the field of health. In my speech, I would like to focus essentially on strengthening the anti-smoking law. Tobacco causes the death of about six million people every year in the world. Of these six hundred thousand, that is about 10%, are passive smokers. Smoking also causes at least twenty-five life-threatening diseases and represents a major risk factor of at least half the main causes of death at the age of 60. The harmful effect of smoking is due to a large number of toxic substances found in tobacco. Specifically, they have been detected either as gas or as microscopic particles more than four thousand different substances, including nicotine. More than two hundred and fifty known carcinogenic substances have also been detected. Nicotine is addictive. It is considered one of the three most addictive substances in the world, immediately after heroin and cocaine. The risk of smoking increases firstly as low as the age of smoking starts, secondly, as long as the overall duration of smoking is increased and thirdly, as the average number of cigarettes consumed is increased. For example, for a person aged twenty-five years the consumption of a pack of cigarettes per day will decrease his life expectancy by five years, while for a person who smokes two packets a day the life expectancy will be reduced by at least eight years. For all these reasons, we are extending the ban on smoking to the outdoor area for the collection and recreation of minors, for the protection of minors from smoking, but also for the prevention of the promotion of standards for people who smoke. But that's not all we live in. Our aim is to ban smoking in all public places on a universal and complete basis. That is why the official staff of the Hellenic Police will be able to check the implementation of the relevant provisions and on their own initiative. We will insist on the application of the anti-smoking law, we will step up our efforts from now on and over time, with our allies and on this subject the great majority of the Greek people, and I am sure we will succeed. Ladies and gentlemen, most cancers are linked to specific behaviours that can easily be prevented. The point is that until now, no one in Greece has invested in prevention, because we always have in the back of our minds that "do not happen to me". At the beginning of 2011, it was also time for me to deal with the health problem. And I say 'and' because it seems to me that we who have faced cancer tend to become the norm and not the exception. And to answer rhetorically the question of if I smoked: Yes, of course, smoked like most. It was a fashion thing, maniac, ignorance in youth years, a teenage nonsense, devastating consequences for all. I'm one of the lucky ones. Of course, I see this now, eight years after all the suffering, suffering for me, for my relatives, for those who love me and for those who have experienced this situation. That is why I stand here today and ask all of you and all of us to vote for this bill. With the total and complete disapproval of the State against smoking we will help the new generation to understand the dangers and stop imitating wrong standards. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not fool ourselves in achieving this bill, in order for it to be implemented and implemented in practice, we must all want it. Only together can we achieve this by collective effort from all the institutions, both the state and the citizens. We are ready to give the next generation the supplies for a better life at all levels. In trying to eliminate smoking, our government is leading us first by awakening society. We are voting for this bill above all for the health of our children. Preventing, providing best service, health services and special care for our weak fellow citizens are our top priority. I always like to see the optimistic side of life, but I'm quite realistic enough to tell you that there is no reality from the very act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u300	Thank you, too. In Stepma, Mrs Maria-Alexandra Kefala from New Democracy, which has the floor for seven minutes, can come and Mr Marcopoulou from New Democracy, too. My colleague, you've got seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u301	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to make a small reference to the Ministry of Education's amendment, because I have seen that it has been very discomfortful to SYRIZA colleagues, and to say that, of course, the flag will be lifted by the best and I will disagree with Mrs Jufi, whom I respect, I have also had a teacher at the University, she is not a retreat - she left the Chamber - because she is not a retreat, excellency, competition is not bad, ladies and gentlemen, when she acts as noble speech, giving incentives to fight for the best. This is what we were asked to do in medicine and the University.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u302	What's changed since then, Mr. Polakis? And I come to the Ministry of Health bill that includes a number of extremely important reforms in the public health system, with the enhancement of anti-smoking law, with the adoption of more flexible legal structures in emergency management bodies, with immediate problems in providing pre-privileged care and hospital care, with effective control of pharmaceutical expenditure, while reducing the burden on clawback to support development investments. As a postgraduate specialist in public health and an employee in the provision of primary health care services in Ioannina I am first-hand aware of the problems and I am glad to see that the New Democracy Government is ready, really ready to provide solutions for an effective and efficient health system centred on the citizen. In particular, the draft law which is being discussed today before the House is reinforced and extended its anti-smoking legislation, as well as its universal application is an act of respect for the responsible smokers, but also an act of welfare to the already smokers, is an act of prevention, it is an opportunity to protect our children from exposure to wrong standards and ultimately from addiction to this harmful health habit. The new generation learns to live with respect for one another and with respect for her health. The data on smoking-related diseases and deaths are already known both for those who smoke and, unfortunately, for responsible smokers. I won't repeat it. In addition, the National Agency for Public Health is strengthened and takes the most flexible legal form of the legal person under private law. Why? In order to respond to emergency and emergencies without delays resulting from the application of the provisions of the public accounting system. This is absolutely necessary for the EGE, even when it acquires increased responsibilities and in the direction of managing the health coverage of refugees and migrants. In addition, the Agency's strategy is developed through cost-effectiveness analyses with specific timetables. It is clear that public health is being upgraded on the basis of a technocratic plan, with the aim of improving the health of all citizens. The EAW as a whole is upgraded to serve as a central pillar of an emergency medical system and at the same time as a central pillar of the health sector in civil protection. Its responsibilities are widened by pre-private care in the coordination of hospital care and crisis management in order to achieve greater unity and better coordination of actions in urgent cases. Significant measures shall be taken to ensure effective control of the pharmaceutical expenditure. The reduction of the burden on clawback with a netting of an automatic reimbursement of pharmaceutical costs with research and development costs will enhance clinical research in Greece. The expected benefits are expected to be multiple. More direct access for patients to innovative treatments, more direct cooperation between academics and the business community, improvement of clinical practice in hospitals, creation of new jobs and strengthening the national economy. Health, ladies and gentlemen, it is a public good, it is not for a few, it is not for many. It's for everyone. In the New Democracy, we believe in a quality public health. Our aim is to provide the best possible services at the lowest possible cost and with a drastic reduction in the suffering of patients. We emphasise prevention and special care for our most vulnerable fellow citizens. We are seeking and aiming for a public health system which is quality and effective, a public health system that meets the increased demands of our fellow citizens and the needs of our fellow citizens. Public health requires organised prevention, requires efficient administration of public structures, requires additional staff, where necessary, needs full use of information technology and modern medical technology, requires overall modernisation of the system and continuous improvement of the services provided. We have started to work intensively in this direction since the first day that the New Democracy took over the country's governance and we will do everything possible to ensure that in a very short time the public health situation is much - much better than the one we have received. And we'll do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u303	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u304	Mr President, may I have the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u305	Why are you asking for a reason? Did he mention your name somewhere? I didn't notice.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u306	I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u307	She mentioned that you are her teacher and respects you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u308	He mentioned me by name.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u309	Name he didn't mention. That's what I know. I'd notice. He didn't mention a name. If he shot you, you don't have the right. Name he didn't mention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u310	He mentioned me by name. We're from the same place. Of course, I had her a student and she gave her exams. That's the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u311	Madam President, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u312	Look, the placement I've made is a placement that says excellence should be pursued among all the children and give opportunities to all children to achieve it. But the flag can't be a prize. In time, - because we have before us and on 28 October - the people who defended the country and honoured the flag did not do so on the basis of their academic performance. Furthermore, because I have also served in the field of special education and training, I want all the children who are in general school in the sense of being involved in this process because they deserve it and they are also entitled to it and their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, too. Besides, this is your party's line, we've heard it before. However, you have no complaint, you have been given the floor. Mr Markopoulos from New Democracy, who knows both words and times, has the floor for seven whole minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u314	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was finally necessary for an athlete to get into a series of anti-smoking laws, and I am very pleased that Vassilis Kikilis as Minister of State with his associates, Vassilis Kontozamanis, the two Vassilis, is trying to put a order on something that we had little to forget about. I am also going to start with the major, in my opinion, the subject of the application of the anti-smoking law. We will, I hope, agree that a society that does not apply the laws is doomed. A state that does not give the same example to citizens or a political system that first gives the trigger of non-compliance - because we have seen it in previous years, we have not complied with this law, the right law, the anti-smoking - should probably not be called a state. I regret - and I say this sincerely and independently of party lines and political positions - that I see that many fellow Members systematically choose almost provocatively to illegally because it is an illegality. When we don't apply the law, we're outlawing it. What are we doing? They seek to create a culture of indifference to public health, to the common good. This is the common good, public health. Using either a puffascist or a so-called libertarian rhetoric that presses on the smoker’s well - right to do what he wants, they effectively put the law out of law. It is an original procedure, that is to say, legality itself is being dismantled. I honestly ask you: are you not sad when you see advanced states, Germany, France, Turkey, apply the anti-smoking law and we are still trying to find pretexts, operate with clichés obsolete style'smoker'? Well, no, the right of the non-smoking person is stronger. The smoker has made a central choice in his life. He has decided to destroy his health in a certain way. However, the right of those who do not smoke, the right of workers to focus centres? I also heard institutions at the public hearing defending smoking - it says - in special places, perhaps at night shops. It's sad. These workers - I ask the left - ask them what does that mean? What are their rights? I hear about tobacco rights. But respect for those who do not smoke is stronger, we want - we do not want to. I suppose the former Minister, Mr. Xanthos, will agree with that. Those who do not smoke must not be charged. It's something for their health, Minister. I appreciate that you, too, as scientists and less as politicians, are on this line. The answer, therefore, is that a situation has unfortunately been imposed which now needs radical choices. And that's what we're answering, because a lot of people are asking why the police should enforce the law. To be honest, the state has failed to enforce a law properly for many years. Don't hide it. He failed. We have failed as a system as a whole. As far as the entire bill is concerned, it should be stressed that the conversion of the National Public Health Organisation into a legal person governed by public law has caused specific problems. It was a failed choice. Again, I'm going to say that the recruitment of personnel for immigration did not create any problems? Haven't there been any difficulties in moving to meet emergencies? Do we want in such a critical period of time with problems in migration, but also other problems that arise, a slow structure, an EGE slow and heavy? I'll ask you left-wing MPs. I think, because this is a health issue, we need to work consensually, build bridges. It may be that immigration is going with Araba, a legal person governed by public law when we have specific needs. I'm talking about immigrants too. Help them, run next to them because they have problems. Can we go through such slow-moving procedures? Humanitarianism also provides for an accelerated process. So here I believe that the headship of the Ministry of Health is coming to act with humanity, because it will act quickly. This is the choice of the legal person of private law. Accelerate procedures to help people. With regard to drug interventions, the Government is working towards reducing the pharmaceutical costs voluntarily by reducing the price of pharmaceutical products at the initiative of suppliers. It is also necessary to reduce the burden on individuals by clawback. Watch what they're doing. Development. They're investing. We are talking about Greek top companies that create groundbreaking, innovation. A sector that has a dynamism. What do we want as a society to go forward? Investments, don't we? I do not think anyone disagrees with that. This simply Greek is called modern political choice. The fact that those who invest, those who develop medicine in Greece should be given a specific treatment. Some may say that it serves interests. No interest goes beyond the interests of the Greek people, because they are in favour of the health system, they are in favour of the citizen, they are in favour of progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u315	Thank you, too. Mr Nikolaos Manolakos from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u316	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is well known and stressed by all the speakers that public health is a supreme good and should receive special attention from both legislative and executive authorities. Our government in the clear samples of state households from the first moment has shown that it intends to intervene and correct bad texts. Health is one of these areas which is, of course, neither self-evident nor for anyone. It is an obvious goal to heal operational strife and reduce the victims of irreversible bureaucracy, because the state has responsibilities and obligations towards the citizens. This is what the government is doing today through this bill as its provisions are moving towards simplification, coordination and practical effectiveness. I have to say that it is a step forward - and I am pleased about that - that today a consensus and a majority of fundamental units are generally recorded. Three points, for example, are the most characteristic that proves that there is a wider political will to go further. Firstly, it is the unification of the National Health Operations Centre with the National Direct Aid Centre, the EAW. In my logic, it was self-evident. It seems, however, that in his course the state and the wrong way he went had even lost his perception. The state has a duty to go ahead with improving obsolete services, much less when under extreme conditions human life is literally hanging on a thread. At these moments, the state must have a simple and effective operating framework, a principle to take decisions and implement quickly. Secondly, the bill comes to reward the self-determination and sacrifice of crews charged with heavy loads for transport, first aid and rescue. It is not a simple case, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, let me remind you of the fact that I come from the Armed Forces. To say, the people who attempt on the road on the asphalt are on a particular battlefield. They fight against time when only minutes can be fatal for the patient's life and fight against the human pain that even if they are familiar or trained for this, no incident is the same as the previous one. This is the battlefield in which they attempt. And that is why I believe, Minister, that the EKA's crew will be rewarded through an additional allowance. Well done for that! It's the minimum state recognition. I come to the third point of convergence, which is the anti-smoking law. We agree that a class should finally be placed on the subject of smoking. The hard thing is to stick to the classroom. But I also want to focus on police involvement. I wonder what the police will do first. The shortages in staff are known in the media. Its needs and tasks are many and great. But I think that our Government has taken this seriously and we must all move forward and agree to strengthen it. The country's internal security is a big deal. Already the Ministry of Citizen Protection, following on from a relevant question I asked in problems, staff and facilities of my constituency in Piraeus and the islands with assurances of his efforts to support him. Ladies and gentlemen, the government clearly comes to give solutions and to do so. Compliance with and implementation of the anti-smoking law concerns all from the older to the younger. There is no time or reason for the slightest oligopoly, for the slightest delay. When we talk about health, let's be clean. Closed up, I want to stay with the students for a while. I would like to refer to a section, which has been a great deal of talk over the recent past, and I would like to put myself as a parliamentarian and as a parent. I'm talking about excellence. Although I have never been excellent, the amendment by the Ministry of Education accompanying this draft law comes to restore things, ladies and gentlemen, because it is worth working, it is worth fighting, it is worth fighting every day, it is worth becoming better. The choice of signifiers in primary schools based on student excellence is a conquest and must be a conquest and not a random event. I am sorry that the previous government has not dealt with this important issue. We're motivating the new kids to get better. We give them a goal, to be free to conquer and to become portrayers, signifiers, but with their value. That is what we are fighting for, and we are defending these values. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u317	Thank you. We'll close the circle of speakers with Mr. Polakis from SYRIZA. Mr. Polakis, you have the floor for seven minutes and because you have your word, you will keep the time, I think.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u318	Thank you very much, Mr President. Allow me, Minister, to take the thread of the debate from where the previous speaker left it because he has made an ideological attack and ideological response. I speak as excellent, ladies and gentlemen. And in elementary school I lifted the flag both in high school and in high school and finished with 20 and wrote 19,600 molecules. Listen to me. We're talking about the flag in elementary school. You're projecting her as the profit of what she'll try harder. Listen. The flag lifted it in the critical moments of our history as a nation and as a Greek who could. Kayales picked her up in Souda, Akrotiri. It was lifted mainly by the children of the people's classes who fought, not by the fake elites who fled at critical times. It was lifted by those who fought in Albania, in the battle of Crete and not by those who ran away - excellent were then with your own perception - for the Middle East. It was lifted by those who resisted the German conqueror, who were raised by those who burned their guts from the ideals of their homeland and independence, and not by those who played it perfectly and cooperated or interacted with the conquerors, to put things in place. Yes, ideologically, Mrs Kerame said so earlier, and she is an insult to common sense. A very large number of schoolchildren get "A". Isn't that a draw there? What is this conversation you're going to do, turn it into what and well is the prize and the privilege of the best to lift the flag. The flag is lifted and so they will regain it at the critical moments, those who are flirting for the independence and freedom of the Greek people. So to put things in place and ideologically. Such a demonstration of national self-determination I have seen from some today, but I have not heard a word about the Kurds. Not a word! What's up, a blog? Erdogan has entered and killed children in the Syrian Kurdistan area and a conversation here today from all flag lovers I didn't hear. The sanctions that we have achieved together with Anastasiades against Turkey why are you not tearing your clothes so that the European Union can activate them? I'm closing the parentheses here. Again ideologically, some New Democracy speakers in relation to the bill talked about pharmaceutical policy. Because we did not fall into the country yesterday, the country's bankruptcy has a concrete sign. Some have ruled in the past few years. They cannot now be presented as uninfected virgins in relation to what happened then and what we are doing now. Minister, you're running a management over clawback. I do not have time to say much today. But I said a few things in my place in committee. You asked us what we did. Look, we handled a bankruptcy within the memorials, Minister, that others charged us with. We were not involved in the country's bankruptcy from a government position. Approximately EUR 9 billion -8.760,000, actually - we had pharmaceutical expenditure in 2009. As I said in the debate on the pre-examination of Papagelopoulos, their doctor monks are not prescribed. Some political decisions are that allow this thing to happen. Some deals of the political leadership with the pharmaceutical industry, which has brought this explosion here for many and various reasons. Because we were a country that fixed the price in other countries. A high price here was five times the profits of pharmaceuticals in other countries. We will not forget what has happened and what is happening. At the moment, even today, I repeat it - and with the cuts that have been made then, etc., it is higher than what should have been in relation to the GDP of the country and the prices that medicines should have. Who has not negotiated, Minister, for so many years, the period of 'bone' cows? Who didn't? For the first time, with difficulty and without a mechanism, because we set him up, he was made to us in the hepatitis drugs and fifty other drugs. You'll tell us we didn't do more. I know, but we had a mechanism.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u319	In two.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u320	It's not just two. The hepatitis drugs we gave 40 million euros to cover a thousand patients, now we cover five to six thousand. Don't go crazy! And you know all about the war of the corporations. Here, then, much deeper changes are needed, which we did not, in the first four years we could not do, because we had to get the country out of the memoranda and you cannot open up eight thousand fronts everywhere. It takes some other, much more conflicting things to get one class in and the expense falls. Listen to me. Pharmaceutical companies promote overregistration, why? Because they get a very high price and a very high price is paid here in the country even now. What enables them to do this very high price? To be "lived". If for a medicine that costs you five, you get 80, you can direct it through things, with conferences, with devils, with frivols and with cash, the prescription to that effect. When Eucreas put Abrahamopoulos in and took a price of 150-130 euros, which is a combination of two medicines that were in place before, one made 7 euros and the other 5 and instead of getting 12 or 15 or 20 euros, it got 100, it was possible to save them to doctors and the "good morning" in the diabetic to prescribe this. Who's to blame for that? Is it the doctor who's prescribing it? Obviously, why he's getting it. But isn't it the one who gave him the honor and gave the company the opportunity? Watch what we're doing here. We're talking about saving, saving, saving, etc. To change the situation, it needs a change in the social contract, which was why the country went bankrupt in the previous period. What were we talking about then? What did they say then and PASOK and New Democracy? I'm not paying you for the work you're doing, I'm letting you get a hate out of what you're using. That's it. That was a social contract of the previous period. He's forced the country, though. So, now here we're reproducing a misery at that level. So why should the doctor or health staff give them the money that the state pays to the medicine? And why not match the wages and salaries of health workers on a decent level, which does not have the need to do this, by reducing, respectively, the prices and remuneration of pharmaceutical and equipment companies, so that they cannot do this? That needs other mechanisms. Obviously, it is not in a year and it is obviously not under memorial conditions. We cut five, ten big bottles, and so they left things over, to do what we did and to cover the uninsured. It's not true what you're saying we didn't give any money. We have received a figure of EUR 1,488,000 from you. We reached it at 1,860,000 euros in a memorandum. What you're saying doesn't have any money. We received the EEAA with EUR 2.20,000,000 due. We delivered him to you practically without delay, Minister. Since 2017, the EEAS has not put up a new debt because it is fully cleared. He never puts a new debt, as the insurance funds and the EEAS put in the first three, four years of his operation. He doesn't. EEA got from the insurance funds 3,480,000,000 euros in 2015. Last year he got 4,730,000 euros. Thus, he was able and pushed to hospitals from the 80,000,000 euros of 2014 that he had given the 50,000,000 euros of 2015 and reached 67,000 euros in 2018. Let's see how much you give by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u321	It's the clawback.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u322	Listen, it is obvious that there will also be such a mechanism, because we were in a memorandum. And now that we're out, if we're going to reopen the thing and "fair children to eat" we're not going to drive anywhere, we're going to go again. But the change, beware, is not here now. I insist. We'll see the ministerial decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u323	Finish, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u324	I have to respond to some things that have been heard very much and have to do with our term of office as ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u325	Yeah, but I gave you all the three minutes you said about the flag.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u326	You have now cut me off, Mr President, and I forgot what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u327	I'm sorry, but yours, Mr. Blonthos, too, is waiting to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u328	It'll close in the end. Now I forgot what I wanted to say to that particular part. Let me come by and say two words about the EKT. Listen, it has nothing to do with the EKAB in 2018-2019 that we handed you over to the 2015 EKAB that we received. Three hundred and fifty new ambulances have entered, Minister, and not just donations.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u329	Mr. Polakis, six...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u330	Listen, be careful, because that's what I want to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u331	Minister, don't interrupt him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u332	In June, the crews who were on shifts here in Athens for the traffic ambulances were six hundred and thirty people. Right now, the information tells me it's under five hundred seventy, five hundred sixty etc. They tell me that now on the morning shift of the ambulances of Athens, there are fifty-six ambulances coming out, while sixty-two, sixty-three, sixty-five and we had arrived sometime in 2017. That's what you'll all be judged for. We are not generally judged by what the media will say and it does not fit in. We are judged by the management of reality. You'll be judged if you open up another aerospace base. Because we both opened up to Syros and the Coast. And in Syros especially they asked for for forty years. You will be judged by whether you will open the other one in the northern Aegean. There are several alternative plans. They'll tell you. Papaeustathi knows all about it. And one last word about the ETA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u333	Yes, Mr. Polakis, why are you embarrassing me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u334	Mr. Polakis, we've been in charge for three months. You were four and a half years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u335	I didn't say you were judged for the three months. You will be judged by these specifics, but by these things you will be judged. I just wanted to answer the part of some things that have been heard and which were fake, so it was not, in relation to the funding and what is happening. I remembered what I wanted to say before. We'll see how long EPY will get to the hospitals on 31-12-2019, whether they'll get over or get what we gave last year. Well, I'll say a word about the ETA and I'll be done. I think the reason...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u336	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u337	All right, I'm last.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u338	No, they're also the rapporteurs, they're also the Minister, they're the employees around who're waiting to leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u339	Since you accepted − and did well to accept, we recognize this - the two proposals that we made in relation to the way in which the ancillary staff were recruited for the extraordinary needs of the EGE and made a change to the part of advertising expenditure, which is not, for example, about a bypass, to redo what he used to do, why did you make him private law?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u340	I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u341	It would make sense if you held those two. What, then, will these two provisions have been voted on? It may also be in public law that the NPT's chilling than the other. The only thing is that we leave the door open in relation to some supplies and some contracts that do not exist so strict control of public accounting in the NPT. Only that is why you have kept, since you changed these two critical articles, in relation to the EGE's past, the legal person. There's no other reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u342	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u343	Well, we'll be here. We'll criticize what we have to do. I made a few remarks to you. Oh, one more word. I have seen an amendment by Mr Kaklamani. She's been brought in about fifteen times, and it's about...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u344	The Minister doesn't make it acceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u345	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u346	Please, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u347	No, I mean...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u348	You've taken exactly twice as much time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u349	I'm sorry, but I'm amazed at the insistence, this thing, let's say, the sixty-seven to be nine, to sit another one, like there's no other world coming from behind that can be manager or I don't know what. No, there, let's sit down and go from sixty-seven to sixty-nine for another two years. I'm glad you don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u350	And I said you keep your word.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u351	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u352	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u353	Mr President, may I have the floor, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u354	For your dentistry, do you want him?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u355	I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u356	A statement?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u357	Yes, it is necessary, Mr President. If you want, let me explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u358	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u359	The answer from the Minister of Education, which reads as follows: "The pre-ordering interest of Mr. Friends and Mr. Jufi in the debate in the House today proved to be the most plausible way, the absence of both of Parliament in discussing the provisions on additional appropriations and the choice of the flags". So it is obvious, first of all, that my presence has been permanent since this morning. The only time I have left was for me to follow the Morphic Affairs Committee, which, while being the case, these amendments were not tabled there but in another bill. Also...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u360	Just hang up, please, because we don't answer any papers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u361	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u362	I'm the one who's here, please. The Minister is not present.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u363	I was always here and, in addition, the Minister responsible contacted me on the phone to discuss the issue of segregating these amendments until the last minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u364	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u365	I should also like to say that it is well known that our sector leader, Mr Philis, has a very serious health problem, which the relevant Minister is aware of, and which is why he is not here today. I deeply regret the fact that he has contacted him on the same subject today.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u366	Thank you. Speaker's cycle closed. We're going to the rapporteurs and we're going to make a gentlemen's deal. You've all been a little out of time since the first time. Four minutes is good for everyone, with some tolerance?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u367	Mr President, anyone who wants to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u368	Yeah, whoever wants to talk, of course. But I see them ready for the time being. Will Mrs. Athanasios from the Greek Solution speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u369	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u370	Oh, no. Yes, you have made use of your time. Mrs. Apajidis?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u371	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u372	Will Mr Stefanade from New Democracy speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u373	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u374	A three-minute suffices?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u375	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u376	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u377	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have indeed followed a procedure in the committees where the treatment is being carried out, and today, which, despite the small tensions, I think was consensual. This results from the object of this draft law, and in particular from smoking and medicines, and in general from the new structure of the body and the EAEC. I would like to highlight the consensus of the Minister, which incorporated many of the remarks made by the Opposition. I think that this is a conquest of the parliamentary procedure, namely consensus on issues which can be converging rather than forging behind some immobile position. On the subject of the flag amendment, I would say that what is called 'incentive' and 'excellence' is more generally a philosophy, which I think promotes development and knowledge. In other words, targeting and targeting, I think, is a situation that develops societies both at individual level and at social level. One will say that maybe this creates stress on the student, maybe it's "rets" or anything. However, with the same logic we go to sport and other events that always aim and expect to catch it is something that develops human beings and is not a backwardness or a'rets'. I wanted to thank all my colleagues. I believe that we have followed an extremely productive and constructive process and it is a bill that changes the map in many parts of the country, and especially in these areas, I repeat, such as smoking, the creation of the new EAEC Agency and, more generally, on other issues that are being dealt with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u378	Thank you, Mr. Stefanides. Mr. Andreas Blonde from SYRIZA has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u379	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make a few very brief points, on the basis of the debate before us. The first is that there's a lot of talk of getting back to normality. It is important to consider a new government that, through its interventions, it restores the country, the economy, society, the social state, the public health system to normality. It's not about that, and you know it very well. The normality, ladies and gentlemen, of the Ministers, of the public health system and of the care of the citizens of our country has begun to return since 1915. Since then, uninsured citizens have been guaranteed access to healthcare and not only hospitals, but also access to medicines and access to examinations. Since then, the cumulative cut in public health expenditure has stopped, which has been under way for five years. Since then, the recruitment balance for departures has begun to be positive. Since then, a regularity has been restored to staff payments. Four years, my dear Minister - and I really hope you will also win it in your own period - there has been no work on the National Health System for non-paid employment, which was almost daily in the previous period. Regularity of staff payments, regularity of payments to health service suppliers and a dramatic reduction in overdue obligations. Regularity in one to one with the recruitments. We did it. We have for the first time called into question the regularity of opacity, immunity and interoperability in the health system at too many levels. Cobian example was the CDC. We overthrowded a vicious regime. Of course, there were many other interventions that were very important, excellent, one of which you rushed to cancel once you were elected, and I mean this decision, the circular for the medical conventions, where the whole world knows that there was immunity and a regime that wanted to be settled. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Regularity has also been in aid with additional resources to the health system. There were public structures which closed in the first memorandum years, ladies and gentlemen. Patisia Hospital closed down like other hospitals mainly of the IKA. So we, the Patisian Hospital, reopened it as a civil-type health center. That was a return to normality. Mr Tsakalotos also said so earlier, in a measurable way, we have reduced health inequality in the country. We don't. ELSTAT says so. Four units down in '17 and '18 in the net of unsatisfied needs. This is a result of n.4368/2016. And until then, although you falsely claim that uninsured people were covered, you know well that they weren't covered and there were bureaucratic obstacles. There are studies by the World Health Organisation that illustrate this very typically. So that was the return to normality. As far as the medicine is concerned, you do not like it, ladies and gentlemen, with problems, with delays, with what you want, for the first time a medicine has been evaluated on the government of SYRIZA in the country, because for the first time a evaluation committee has been established. There wasn't until then. Haven't we had a lot of time to assess? Probably. I told you and the committees that organised countries did one and two years to evaluate a medicine. For the first time, the state and the insurer, EEAY, negotiated with pharmaceutical companies for more affordable prices of medicines. For the first time! It never happened in Greece until '15-16. For the first time, therapeutic protocols were entered into the electronic prescribing system. And for the first time there has been a serious institutional dialogue in the country concerning medicine and the Ministry and in the House, where we set up a intergroup committee on long-term pharmaceutical policy. Industry, all those involved in the drug market, the patients, everyone and their opinion were here. Institutional dialogue at Ministry level, where in the Monitoring Committee for Pharmaceutical Expenditure everyone participated, had reason and prepared and presided over the decisions of the Ministry and the interventions. For the first time, the country has taken international initiatives in the field of partnerships with other countries of transnational cooperation to tackle the international problem of cost explosion. This is an international problem. It is not only the case in Greece. I told you this morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u380	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u381	So - I'm finishing with this - to speed things up as much as you want. Do not, however, listen to you, Mr Minister, say 'what structural measures'. But the structural measures which you are now taking are, say, an acceleration of what we have adopted. So don't tell us what structural measures! There were no structural measures other than electronic prescribing and prescribing on the basis of the active substance. This was the only corrosive measure taken by 2015-2016. And I'm closing up with the ETA theme. We're out of it, I think. In fact, do not tell us now that you are making a legal person under private law to facilitate the flexibility of the body to address the health care of migrants and refugees. Please very much. Because, first of all, this comes into a clear contradiction not with your voices - the truth is that - but with voices of other government officials and first-class ministers who speak of 'a clear vine country' and that it is not possible for us to be burdened with the care of these people who come as poachers, as the Greek Solution says in an insulting and insulting way for human rights and human dignity. And to be specific, trustworthy care for refugees and migrants, dear Minister, today, public health structures, which are legal persons, health centres, hospitals, the whole of the National Health System and, of course, nothing prevents us from being a legal person of public law from exploiting European funds and European funds under the 'PHILOS II', so that we can have additional support and care in camps, but also of the neighbouring public structures. So I think that is a hub and that explains the vote at first. We are voting for a number of provisions that we considered to be in the right direction and we are here to see the next steps of the government and the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u382	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u383	Mr President, I would like the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u384	Here you go, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u385	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Xanthi, I think the figures speak for themselves, and this is about the pharmaceutical expenditure and the clawback that we delivered to you in January 2015 and the pharmaceutical expenditure and the clawback that we received in July 2019. All that you said that for the first time you have implemented is what the New Democracy Government has voted for in the period 2012-2014 and you have voted against it. At least, yes, you have succeeded and proceeded with some things and believed in what we had legislated and moved on. And because there is a lot of talk about the wonderful therapeutic protocols, you know very well that whatever protocols we put into the system is not going to keep the expenditure on because these protocols have to be compensation. The protocols are not compensation at the moment - and that is the bet we have to win - and, of course, structural measures, because the interventions we make in the bill for the National Public Health Agency are not structural. We are intervening in the negotiating committee and in the Committee on the Evaluation of Medicinal Products, but this is certainly not a structural measure, but a structural measure is to go to the Agency - at last - an assessment of health technology, which was a Memorandum on your days and you did not do so. You have ruled this country for four and a half years. Of course, our obligation is to take substantial structural measures in order to contain the pharmaceutical cost and reduce clawback. The clawback we all know that it is a temporary containment mechanism for expenditure and should be reduced and not increased. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u386	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u387	Mr President, I would like to say another word.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u388	If it's for a word, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u389	Dear Mr. Kontozamanis, please, from now on, and all those in charge of the medical expenses, not only speak in terms of expenditure retention, but also in terms of covering the medical needs of people. Pharmaceutical expenditure these years has increased because we have had a low budget, a low budget, a low budget, indeed, but also because we have given more people access. That is the essence and we really need to make a very big effort from now on to make more rational and more efficient management of these limited resources that we have.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u390	Mr Vandemeulebroucke, I now have to give the floor to the Secretary-General as well to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u391	You have not, after so many years, admitted that access to the insurers was granted by the two ministerial decisions of the 2014 period.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u392	Do the same again!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u393	Listen to him. No dialogue, please! Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Pulas has the floor now from the Change Movement. Mr. Poula, you were consistent, so you're entitled to at least seven minutes. I want to be fair here with you. How much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u394	Five minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u395	We're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u396	Thank you very much. Minister, first I would like to say a few words about the amendments you have put to the vote. We have a reservation as to the amendment by the Ministry of Rural Development concerning the construction of the electronic platform for the registration of data provided for by No 4492/2017. That is where we have not been answered clearly how much timeframe we still need. This is a matter for us because we are exposed to farmers. It is the farmers who are not paid. Entrepreneurs do well and do not pay, but farmers do not collect. A second point I would like to make is that as far as the amendments you have put forward, overdue to subsidiary medical staff, this shows that you were not prepared, and you are trying to fill the gaps with balls. At the moment the health system has too many problems. It has staff shortages, whether in medical or paramedics, which you are trying to regulate fragmentally. Like the thousand hundred supplementary posts that the extension of their term of office expired and the doctors who will serve the emergency departments. These issues you had to see in total, bring a bill - if you were to be late, bring it in a month and two months later - so that we can see all the problems in the field of health and finally resolve and reach agreement, make a dialogue in the right direction. Finally, as regards our amendment, which we tabled on insurance contributions, I would expect you to accept it. Once you say that we give pharmaceutical companies EUR 50 million supposedly for research and technology and to build lines and the rest, it is the citizens who should receive dividends, because they have bleeded so many years. So that's where we're gonna have to go. In this chapter we will have to get in. I'm not hiding you that pharmaceutical expenditure is a time bomb. On this point we must put all the weapons we have and what needs to be done - because I told you in my prototype, that the Greek is paying out of his pocket - at some point this is the amount to be reduced. However, we must also take into account a number of other issues which are important here. What are these? The ageing population and the kind of diseases that come for it, and we believe that spending is not easy to harness, to gather. In other words, we need a comprehensive and definitive approach to all data on the table. As far as the structure of the EAW is concerned, we stress that its operational preparedness must be ensured. The EMCDDA will not be able to function because the EMCDDA, which was coordinated, is an address at the Ministry of Health. Is this address going to work on hours of civil servants? How will he respond operationally with readiness to any emergency? Who will be monitoring the availability of the IF beds in a timely manner, who will assess their availability and who will have them? Here we have a topic - and I want to stress - that we had a victim, the woman who lost her life. Why should the EMCDDA carry the incident only within the framework of the HR? Can we not allow another DSO to go? Shouldn't we see this at some point?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u397	It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u398	It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u399	But it didn't happen with that patient. Started and arrived at Yanna.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u400	It's the same RU. It's gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u401	All right, it's the same Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but another to come to Athens and another to go to Iannina. It's different I think. Minister, our resignation is identical to the foundation of the National Health System. I am pleased that the draft law was discussed in a consensual atmosphere. It seemed that the starting point for all of us is common and that we all understand health issues as extremely important, and I believe that, through the agreement which we will all have, the health sector will go ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u402	Thank you, too. Mr Lambroulis from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor. How many minutes will it take?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u403	Thank you, Mr President. What I am going to need, Mr President, because I spoke in my prototype as rapporteur, and I did not have any interventions. They may have exceeded the time of 15 minutes in protology, but you will give me time to say five things about three amendments, not all, for three amendments which we consider to be important, ministerial in particular.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u404	Okay, you got five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u405	The first thing we have to notice - and I have to say to colleagues here - is the unacceptable method of manipulation. Look. We've just been handed over, so you'll probably know what we'll be summoned to vote for in a quarter. Here the ministerial amendment, for example, Minister, is registered in this form with seven separate articles. We as a party, as a parliamentary group, agree, for example, to vote for and we want to vote in favour of these two articles, but our vote in favour of the whole, because for some articles, anyway, we oppose and are obliged to vote against the amendment and, of course, in the Minutes, it will be recorded in the seven articles on the JRC, the SYRIZA and any other party. And this type of practice, that is to say, amendments with many articles, we had it in the previous parliamentary term. You or the present government are not inaugurating it. We have again raised our objections, our objections. So, Mr President, on this basis, I will take this time not to be given, but much more because I have to say for every article two reasons and what we are voting on. So you'll give me the time. And I'm starting. We shall vote against the amendment by a general number of 50 and a special 8. In our opinion, it is a tool that connects the provision of medicines and vaccines on the basis of costs to the EEAS and the failure to disrupt its anti-grass budget. And from this regulation and the criteria that are being put forward, there may be no burden, for example, on the EOPY budget, to simplify the procedure for the entry of goods into the market, but what will the patients benefit from? They paid, paid, and they'll pay gold for the medicine. I now come to the amendment to the seven articles, namely Amendment No 48, and Amendment No 6. We are forced to vote against it, while we want to vote and we are positive, for example, in Article 2, for the establishment of at least these ten posts for the 3rd Health Region, i.e. positions of qualified doctors for primary school - if I remember well, as has been said - health care in the region. As we would also be voting in favour and would be voting in favour of this article on the payment of the addendums to doctors' newspapers. However, we are forced to vote against, as I have said, because we disagree, we are negative in the first article on regulating the establishment and operation of medically assisted breeding units, in our disagreement on extending business activity to health. As we are also opposed and we would vote against it if Article 4 were separated, which provides for the possibility for all kinds of health units - OKANA and goes by saying - after the list of subsidiary entities has been exhausted to conclude contracts with a block. And we say that this is the well-known method of invoking the needs for expanding the overthrow of labour relations with cheaper and multiple exploited workers. In fact, this is a time-consuming arrangement, of course, implemented by PASOK, even by the previous government by the last SYRIZA government. That's what we'll be against. As we are also against Article 7 which regulates the recruitment of staff in the EGE, because, in our opinion, the content and mission of the EGE, in order to fulfil its role, must be sufficiently staffed with all the necessary staff on a permanent basis that can respond to current and temporary needs. In addition, there is the experience of how the concept of emergency needs has been used in public health units. In fact, it has been converted as a cover for the replacement of permanent staff with subsidiary, temporary staff and so on. But even in the case of refugees and migrants, this measure is being used to cover only a small part of the needs of health centres and hospitals, which are practically not covered either by the current needs of the people, but also, of course, also by migrants and refugees. Therefore, the problem is not the recruitment process in the EGE, but the political direction towards meeting needs. And it seems from the procedure in which you legislate, the exception becomes a rule in the case of recruitment for the needs of public health. We are voting against this. In our opinion, therefore, the majority of them dominate the whole thing. So, you're gonna put us here? They will enter into the articles that we want to vote in favour. We declare it at least to be recorded. And I come to the last, third amendment, as I have said, of the Ministry of Education. Here's the same story. He's got two articles. The first article on increasing the appropriations to meet the payroll requirements of substitute teachers, we would vote in favour of it. Of course, in the second article on how to choose a signifier in primary schools, we are in the'substances' and dominates the'substances' of course. What does it mean, that we are'residents' and in the first provision, in the first article of the bill? And of course, because there was a conversation about this issue of the flag, the flags and the others, and to say things by their name, the choice of the flags was not free of the draw process, as it is well known that many more children from one or two, if you like, were the ones taken at all "10" at the end of the first grade. Now the invocation of the New Democracy Government for excellence, in our view, is deeply dangerous. The essence of the problem is that we should not talk about the flag, but we should discuss how to strengthen the few who seem to be able to distinguish themselves in some area and indeed, at the expense of the rest, instead of discussing how to raise the whole of the others, without denying the possibility of cultivating particular gradients and skills. And you know very well and we all know very well that all studies and international experiences show that supposed support for excellence ultimately leads to a widening of social inequality. In fact, it appears that the implementation of the policies of support for so-called excellence extends the differentiation and categorisation between schools, graduates' children, at whatever level one sees it. What we are looking for is not the one excellent in the pile, but we are struggling to raise the level of many to the level of the excellent ones. So we in this amendment actually have to vote 'the present'. And this procedure, Mr President, should we look at it again at the Conference of Presidents and with the Government, and see how practically it can be solved.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u406	You're right. We have a conference on Thursday and we'll talk about it. Thank you very much, Mr. Lambroulis. Mr Stefanades has the floor for half a minute. Although we're closed, I'm doing you a favor, because today you're all very sad about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u407	I just wanted to make a comment. He said Mr. Xanthos that the public health system has been charged with the treatment of refugees. I'd tell him to go to Samos this time this month, after July, to see how much the public system has collapsed, he can't raise that burden. Therefore, this has to do with the flexibility of private and public law agencies, i.e. in a hospital - the Minister knows well - that doctors are escaped from the burden of immigrants.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u408	When will someone need to hospitalize where he's going? Will he go to ETA?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u409	Mr. Xanthi, please! Please, Mr. Stefanade, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u410	Okay. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u411	We'll hang up with the Minister of Health, Mr. Kikilia.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u412	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u413	No, no. The speakers are over, and the Minister will now speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u414	Let me ask you something to include it in his answer, Mr President. Minister, if you can answer what will happen with the seizures of the two hundred eight TLP doctors, because there is a great concern.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u415	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u416	You don't even have to put time, Mr. President. I don't mean to get far. It doesn't make any sense. I repeat that no one documentes their position with their arguments once, twice. Now when we repeat the same things, just to be recorded in the Minutes of the House, I am not telling me anything. I've heard a lot of things. All right, everyone has his logic and his policy. They're all respected. I would like to thank all my fellow Members for the way in which they dealt with the debate in committees and in plenary. Colleagues from the Communist Party, which has another perception of things and policies, which are respected, there was no intention of an amendment to the whole of the articles. Although it explained to me and I explain it to you and we all need to understand that, you said that SYRIZA did so before etc. Imagine what would happen in here if each amendment were followed by various articles, with a legal study and a report from the General Accounting Office of the State for each of them, etc. You would say that we are bringing two hundred amendments, we are doing, we are showing, and so on. This is the practice that is being followed. It was explained to me by the authorities. Nevertheless, I would like, after all this debate that has taken place, and the acceptance by the political leadership of the Ministry of Health of various legislative initiatives which we have incorporated, to see them in the final text. However, you have said so orally to the committees and to the plenary. You have referred to this part which you support and which is not enough for us too. I will not open a debate now, Mr President, Mr Polakis, on health issues. I just want to tell you one thing that I held back. The commander of the EMCDDA, whom you appointed, gave me these numbers for the EMCDDA in August at three shifts, in the morning, in the afternoon and in the evening. It should have been sixty on the morning shift and thirty just at night. Anyway, I could say a lot more. He said the Minister said for the two ten TENs. I have explained, in private, that we have had many objections and many problems in this particular notice. The referral we have decided is about these problems that we are trying to cure. Already the Secretary-General of the 1st Minister of State along with the crisis council and the President-in-Office are running the process and I think that in a short time it will have come to an end. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the decent way in which you have dealt with the parliamentary procedure. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u417	Thank you very much, Minister. You didn't need a second extension. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: 'Recommendation of a National Public Health Organisation', rules on tobacco products, other issues of the Ministry of Health and other provisions'. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. We note that the vote includes the principle of the bill, of thirty-nine articles, of six amendments, of the farewell article, and of the entire bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right-hand side of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure you have passed all the articles, the hotel article and the entire bill. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would very much ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u418	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u419	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows: [[CHANGING PAGE]] CHANGING PAGE
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u420	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Health: ‘Recommendation of a National Public Health Organisation (EGEI), regulations on tobacco products, other matters of the Ministry of Health and other provisions’ was accepted in principle, articles and in the majority of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u421	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u422	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-15-S1-commons.u423	With the agreement of the House at 21.43 p.m., the meeting on Thursday 17 October 2019 at 9.30 p.m. on the subject of Parliament's work is closed: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, discussion of topical questions; and (b) legislative work, only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Strengthening the exchange of financial communications of an agreement on the extension of the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America on the imposition of import restrictions on categories of archaeological and Byzantine ecclesiastical material up to the 15th century C.E. of the Hellenic Republic’, in accordance with the supplementary agenda distributed.
