ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 11-12-2019 delegation, the minutes of the CV's meetings of Wednesday, 11 December 2019 were ratified by the Bureau, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Statute of election rights for voters outside the Greek territory and the amendment of the electoral procedure’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on the following questions: Before we begin, however, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 13 December 2019. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Mr Manousou Voloudakis, Member of Parliament, with No 299/9-12-2019, asked the Minister of Finance, "Assessment of SMPs and ANFAs for financing public investment". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 305/9-12-2019 topical question by MP Rethymno of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The implementation of the National Action Plan on hepatitis C is delayed." 3. The 295/9-12-2019 topical question by the Member of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kamine to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Recent complaints about the exercise of unjustified violence by police." 4. The 313/10-12-2019 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Building the North Road Axis of Crete (BOAK). 5. The Question No 293/12-2019 by the Deputy of the State of Greece, Mr. Vassiliou Villiardou, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: ‘OHIM Convention (Public Service or Infertible Lines)’. 6. The 308/10-12-2019 topical question by MP 2 of the North Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Klonas Gregoriadis to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "Police violence and arbitraryness during the commemoration events for the anniversary of Alexander Gregopoulou's death". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 312/10-12/2019 topical question by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Mrs Catherine Papanatziou, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union (WEU) on tsipuro/tsikoudia and on the protection of two-day producers". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 294/12-2019 of the Greek Parliamentary of State, Mr. Vassiliou Villiardou, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Extension of the Cleanup Scheme of the Organisation of Urban Transport of Thessaloniki (OSTH) with its amendment of 28-11-2019 to the Mediation Act". 3. The question by No. 309/10-12-2019 is a topical question by MP B2 of the West Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Measures to deal with pollution of Volos from the incineration of waste by the cement industry SAET-LAFARGE". 4. The 310/10-12-2019 topical question by MP B2 West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Leave the pier Scaramaga in the Municipality of Haidari". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question, under number 1674/4-11-2019, by MP B2 West Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Charulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "Atmosphere pollution and its consequences - upgraded levels of quality of life". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Haris Mamoulakis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Compensatory benefits for the Municipality of Malevizios through the reduction of energy facilities in Linopera". Today, fourteen topical questions will be discussed. So we now move on to the debate on the first under No 297/9-12-2019 in the first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Mr Evangelos Liakou, to the Minister of State, Mr Gerapititi, on the subject: 'A topical question on developments in Elefsina Shipyards'. I would ask you, as far as possible, to ensure that the time is respected, because as you know, it follows urgent draft legislation, which must begin in time. Mr. Liaco, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning. Anyway, I'm thinking of not using my dentistry to shorten the process. Mr President, Minister, as you know, the problem that has arisen in the Elefsis shipyards has been dealt with by both the Government and the Prime Minister himself. At the moment in Elefsina shipyards there are six hundred workers who live with 70% of their wages. This poses a problem both in their families and in general in the West Attica economy by the related professions, who will lose jobs. The company owes around EUR 19 million for its employees. The anticipation of the solution, which had to be found, was delayed due to a resolution in the search for a solution to the Syrian shipyards. As we saw last week, however, this was completed after about two years, because the public was involved. The creditors of the Elefsina shipyard occupy a large share of the State, whether it is in tax or insurance. Since the file is between two ministries, I would like to ask you, as you are the coordinator of the government's work, what will be the government's attitude to speed up the solution? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, thank you very much. I am not going to use the dentistry to the extent that the honourable Member has chosen the short path of protology alone. Thank you very much for tabling the timely question. I would like to point out that the government's will is to save Elefsina's shipyards. As you know, there have been efforts in the past to resolve its financial position by finding an investor, which had not been fruitful. Unfortunately, the financial statements, especially in 2018, are extremely unfavourable. EUR 13.8 million and a total of EUR 261 million have been lost, without the obligations to the Hellenic Navy being met, which are estimated at around EUR 100 million. The liabilities of the company, dated 30-4-2019, amount to about 226 million euros, of which about 25 million public and 17 million euros staff, and there is a debt of about 66 million euros to EKA. We understand, of course, that in these circumstances the only viable solution for the shipyard to return to efficient operation would be the finding of an investor who would contribute the necessary funds so that, in the context of Article 99 of Law 3588/2007, the necessary resolution agreement exists. This model was followed in the Syros shipyards. Indeed, as you have rightly said, the process was completed last week and the number of 700 jobs in the Syrian shipyards was ensured. In the same model, the government intends to move at this stage. It is one responsibility which the Ministry of Development and Investment has, namely, the power to find an investor who will be able, by means of proof of capital, to make a real financial contribution to the company's capital, to finance the transaction and to assume all the obligations that have been created, which are precisely the thorn for this agreement. The co-responsibility, as you mentioned, of the Ministry of National Defence is limited only to the fact that according to Law No.4361/2016 the Hellenic Navy signed a tripartite agreement with the company and with the employees, so that there is a two-package construction and on the basis of this agreement the Ministry of National Defence paid 70% of the wages of employers and insurance contributions. Therefore, to this extent, the following is true: the Ministry of Development and Investment is now able and obliged to find a solution that is viable for the company. In this context, it is already discussing with the company 'ONEX SHIPPYARDS', which has successfully taken over the Syrian shipyards, so that there can be the quickest possible, quickest settlement of the issue, as with other significant investors. I would like to point out that, as was the case with other private sector companies, such as HELLENIC STEEL, the company 'BARVARESOS' or 'CRETA FARMS', the government ensures, as far as possible, that companies in financial difficulties remain, for the benefit of workers, on the basis of a private initiative and with new investment funds, so that the project can be promoted. That is why we believe that, in the near future, we will have a development with regard to the development plan. Already next week, the company "ONEX SHIPPYARDS" will present to the Ministry of Development and Investment a new business plan for Elefsina Shipyards and we are very optimistic that in the near future we will have the participation of the company in the capital, the acquisition of the company, so that it can continue its work uninterruptedly, undertake the obligations and continue to have their full employment. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u6	Here, Mr. Liaco, you have the floor if you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u7	I was completely covered by the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u8	Good, thank you very much. Mr. Panagiotopoulos hasn't come yet. He's on his way. But Mr. Voridis and Mr. Giolas are here. So that we do not waste time, then, we will discuss the first question of the petitions by the MP Argolidas of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Giannis Giolas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The transport and distribution of irrigation water by the networks of Anastasios in the Municipality of Ermionida, the Prefecture of Argolida". Here you go, Mr. Giola.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr Prodre. Mr Minister, as you know, under the decision of the Secretary-General of the Agricultural Policy and Management of Community Resources at the time, Mr Charalambo Kasimis, the task of transporting irrigation water network from Anavalos was integrated. It's a source that burrows by the sea and has really given life to the argonal plain. The dream of many decades has been, this irrigation water of the Ridiculous, to reach Ermionida as well. Ermionidas, in passing, is one of the most dryer areas in Greece, one of the three: western Cyclades, Ermionida and East Laconia, Mani. You, Minister, will know better than I do. The wish, therefore, is that this work should be completed. There are specific, integrated studies. It was not included in time because the hydrogeological study of the underground aqueduct was a prerequisite for the European Union, in order to know whether it is necessary and how useful water can go and be useful there. So when this heresy came, it now opened the way, so that we can incorporate the work. This accession has taken place. It is necessary to do this. I would like to say that Ermionida in particular is a gifted place in terms of fertile agricultural land. It is known that it has products of designation of origin, the Ermionic pomegranate, but also the Cranidian oil, citrus fruits and others. In addition to this, however, this irrigation will serve as much as possible, the masses, both in businesses, tourism and the second manufacturing sector. You know there that there will not be a great tourist unit with eighteen holes of golf that water is necessary to water the grass, etc., so irrigation water is now necessary. As a number of ambiguous statements have been heard - it will be done, it will not be done, it will join, it will not join - here we are. I should like to give you the opportunity, responsibly, to listen to me and the Arral people, and especially to Ermionida, what is to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u10	Mr. Voridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the question, Mr Colleagues, because the truth is that I read that there were some articles on the site - I do not know exactly which ones - which were allegedly invoking that this work is not going to be carried out and indeed involved me in these statements. I would therefore like to thank you for giving us the opportunity to clarify things in the most official way so that there is no debate. The history of the Anavalos, as you know, is an old history and, in any case, I want to convey to you - I say this in general, not to put it all in a context in general - that at the moment the Prime Minister's direction on the issue of infrastructure projects is that Greece will have to build and deal with environmental infrastructure projects. As an environmental infrastructure project - because we hear about irrigation and we wonder if it is an environmental infrastructure project - the answer is that, unfortunately, the way in which irrigation is being carried out to a very large extent today in Greece, by a large degree, affects, insults and hurts the environment. We are all aware that from a model of drilling and, in fact, exploitation of the aquatic horizon, which is also environmentally harmful, but I will also say completely counterproductive to farming practice, because it has too much cost to draw specifically from great depths, we must go to a model of exploitation and exploitation of surface water. The case, therefore, of the Indicator - all I say introductory terms - is part of this strategy of the Government for the exploitation of surface water. You will see that beyond the thirty one works, which we are currently doing well and perform, we will incorporate more works and go in this direction. Especially now for your question, that's what it is. It's expensive. The project has been integrated and we are now at a point. That is what has happened, to be precise with a decision on 2-7-2019, just before the elections. I say it for no other reason, but just to have the time order of events. Based on the terms of Law 4412/2016 - if you remember, this is a law on public works, which was passed by the SYRIZA Government - in order to proceed to any tender of the project, it is necessary that the necessary expropriations have been carried out in advance. So we have an earlier stage, which we now need to move on. May I, Mr. President, continue in my dentext?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u12	It's all right. We'll earn it in your dentistry, so he knows how Mr. Giolas will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u13	I'll be brief too. For the necessary expropriations, Mr Colleague, a budget of EUR 500,000 has been approved for the expropriations sub-project. There, the competent authorities have now been asked to activate Article 7a of Law 2882/2001 in order to avoid delays in the start of implementation of projects, to avoid the risk of untimely absorption of financed resources and to allow the completion of the physical object and payments until the end date of the eligibility of the programme, which - notable - is 31-10-2023. So we are now going to proceed with this process, once the request made by the Ministry's department has been approved, in order to come to this article on speeding up. We will proceed with the expropriations procedure and once this procedure is completed, we will have to check real estate tables and charts in order to proceed with the tendering process. Of all these technicalities, I want you to keep this: we are speeding up the work and we will do everything we can to get it done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Giolas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. I am, indeed, pleased and pleased that there is the first option to promote this project, which - as I said to you - is particularly necessary for the region. I think that expropriations will have the good thing that with this EUR 500,000 budget, they will be overcovered because, above all, the road runs in public, forest or other areas. Therefore, we will not have high-cost expropriations and money to be made available. Therefore, we are walking from what I understand, to cover any gaps, which exist under the legal and formal procedure. You should also be aware that this water - since you have referred to the environmental conditions - will bring the maximum into the area, because, as we understand, the underground water well is enriched by irrigation and water that erupts through the sources in the Argolic Gulf. Because there are indeed drilling, which reaches three hundred and four hundred yards, i.e. essentially seawater. We therefore have this large source of clean water, which, as I said, can serve as a major source for irrigation, but also as an alternative and secondary source for processing and hotel units in the area that, as you know, is very blossoming, and this transport is an undeniable need indeed. I think the people will welcome it with great pleasure and satisfaction. It's a project that needs to run at high speed. I think it is now in your hands, and I mean in the hands of the services of the Ministry of Rural Development, and we are therefore waiting for it to happen. Let me just say for the record that the reason for this question gave the fact that there were articles of doubtful and dubious validity, as Mr. Peloponnese had said: "Let us look at this particular project, because it will be costly for the transport, if we can cover another project, which is a barrier". However, the barrier does not exist, it has not been completed at a study stage. So we cannot wait for decades yet. We need to move this project forward as it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u16	Minister, would you like to fill in something? Oh, no. Thank you very much. Series is the 307/10-12-2019 timely question by MP B2 West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The release of forest land of the Chaidari Campaigns and the concession of buildings and public areas to their local government agencies (OTAs)". Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, it's a matter of enormous importance both for Haidari, but also for Petroupoli and Peristeri. And in the past, it has been a request for this release of camps and the delivery of space to the citizens and all the municipalities of Western Athens. It's a space of three and a half thousand acres, of which two thousand are six hundred are wooded. They are the two former KEVOP and KEVO camps, which have entered Haidari and there is a time when governments are making promises that these camps will be attributed to the citizens. As early as 1990 with the 'Attatica SOS' programme for the delivery of camps to the citizens, we have been committed to doing so, to becoming a part of the free natural area of the Polikilos Mount, which has not been implemented. We have today the regulatorial plan of Athens, which includes exactly the entire off-plan area of Poikilos Mount to become a single regional park. In order not to be confused, we are not talking about a park like Tritsi Park, that is, an organized area, but about a natural park for protecting biodiversity and obviously free to use the public. In addition, we are talking about a historic space, because that is where BLOK 15 was in practice a concentration camp with many victims from citizens who participated in the National Resistance. So there's this piece to be attributed, and finally, to be the museum for BLOK 15. The Municipality of Haidari asks for sixty-square acres for green areas and there is the need to be attributed to Poikilo Mount, the protected area and to a regional natural park, as foreseen by the PSA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u18	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u19	Mr Colleagues, the absolute respect I have in the procedures of parliamentary control is certainly and imposes my presence here today, in order to answer this topical question, similar to the one you tabled last week for the use of another property - camp, owned by the Ministry of National Defence and, in particular, the National Defence Fund, as an asset of the Armed Forces. However, I must say that the topical question should always have the topical and at this point, let me add that, given the developments in the Eastern Mediterranean and the primary role of the Armed Forces and the Ministry of National Defence, I think that others are topical and flaming. Of course, that has an interest. However, timely and flaming are other things, and I do not hide from you that at this time I should have been at inter-conferences with the officials and military leadership, but I am coming here, respecting the procedure. On the substance of the matter, another camp, another municipal demand to be granted to him. The Karaiskaki I and II camp in Haidari Attica is active and operationally necessary. This is characterized by the Services of the Armed Forces. This ensembles various military units and services of the land army and therefore the concession of buildings and public spaces, including the building and surrounding area of BLOK 15, is not, for the simple reason that it is an active camp. We have had this debate here last week in detail on the subject of procedure. According to Article 966 of the Civil Code, active camps are being traded out, as long as they are intended to serve public purposes. Therefore, areas within which active military facilities exist cannot be included in advance in any future programme or planning, or organisation of green development sites, etc. Regulatory plans are general guidelines, but further implementation by adopting regulatory acts takes primarily into account the ownership status of areas, namely those that are part of urban planning. The Ministry of National Defence, through the National Defence Fund, has stood a timeless arrogant, I would say, in support of the local society of Haidari, with the satisfaction of previous requests by the Municipality of Haidari for the concession of parts from the Camp Karaiskaki, which the GES has released operationally, i.e. it has characterised them as inactive for the purpose concerned. Gradually, about twenty-nine acres have been released to the municipality, which have been allocated to the Ministry of Presidency, General Secretariat of Sports, for the construction of sports facilities since 1984, thirteen acres to the Ministry of Finance for the opening of Rimini road in 1995, about fifty acres to the Ministry of Finance, in favour of the Organisation of Regulatory Design and Environment of Athens, for the creation of sites of cultural activities, green and recreation in 1997, another fifty acres to the Ministry of Finance, in favour of the Municipality of Heidari, for the creation of a Park of Historical Memory and Contemporary Environmental Creation, in the year 2005. With regard to the additional sixty-six acres requested by the Municipality of Haidario for concession, the TTEHA certainly listens to the municipality's proposals, is in cooperation with the municipality, in order to investigate how the request is met, but always in the light of the current legal framework. So let us first settle the gaps that exist, both in material terms, in terms of arbitrary exceedance of the limits of the areas allocated, and in legal acts, i.e. correcting incorrect entries in the register - in my second language, I shall add a little on this - on parts, in fact, which is requested by the municipality for concession. The conferences have taken place, the municipality's response to the objections raised and to the choices presented to it, as well as the actions to be taken by the municipality to the National Register, is expected to make a manifest error statement on parts of the Karaiskaki camp that appear incorrectly as the property of the Municipality of Heidari. In other words, we have here an issue of a small strip, where the Municipality of Heidaris appears as a trespasser, and if this is not settled, we cannot go from there to any debate, despite the fact that we are open to any discussion about the real estate of the Ministry, with one of the alternative scenarios, as we said last week, and concessions to municipalities, but with the legal and property context being cleared up. That is the most necessary condition.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u20	Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I can only comment on your initial comment on the Greek Turkish problem. You know very well that the problems with Turkey have always been with regard to oil and mining. Unfortunately, it is, if you would like, and the lack of responsibility of the Greek Governments, who have started all this funny mining game, which is against the action on climate change, which the Minister says your government is proclaiming, is against the interests of the citizens, because an accident bears 5 billion costs for tourism, while the mining revenues will not exceed 150 million, and it is what is currently giggling tensions with Turkey, so the responsibilities are great and yes, you are very concerned about this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u22	I would ask that we return to the issue of Haidari.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u23	Let's get back to Haidari. It is not just that these camps since 2005 have actually been empty, because that is the reality. We're talking over two and a half thousand acres of forest. Do you want to say that, with the permission of the Athens camps, the army needs the two and a half thousand acres, in the center of Athens, in the areas that are so downgraded and have such a big problem with the quality of life and access to green, which have the transported pollution from Triasio just passing by the camps, have the HYTA Physics dating and caused such a problem in the degradation of the people's lives? And you're saying that these acres can't be attributed to the forest? I see that you are more flexible - and I am pleased with that - with regard to the return to the municipalities. Again, the Prime Minister, with whom I imagine you have spoken, had asked a similar question for the previous camp. But it's not just the Prime Minister. Here we also have the former Prime Minister, Mr Karamanlis, who pledged, in 2003, to Peristeri to render the space to the people of Western Athens, we then have Mr Karamanlis, in 2008, for the extent of these sixty-seven acres again, to commit to being attributed to the people of Athens and Haidari to become the Memory Park, the Youth Park and so on. Since then, however, nothing has happened. I think it is an opportunity for you to keep up with these commitments both by the current Prime Minister and by the former Prime Minister and to deliver these places, firstly, the green, as the National Regulatory Plan of Athens and Attica provides for citizens to create the regional park, as well as the areas that the military does not use. This question is not even asking you the spaces used by the army. He asks you for those who do not use, but those who have been released, to be granted for public use. We owe it to the inhabitants of Western Athens. It is the motto of Athens through the HYTA Glais and the effects, which they have received from the Trinity all this time, are worth the least of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u24	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Colleague, I have nothing essential to add, in relation to what I said in the protology, just to clarify some details, since I have a topographic chart of the area of the Karaisk I and II camp, but I cannot submit it because of the classified information it contains. But if my dear fellow Member so desires, he can take note of this, with a performance at the TEDA, in order to verify that what I am saying is accurate. We therefore have a satellite imagery of the Karaiskaki camp, from the Landscaping Department of the Foundation. As you can see, in order to go to any other debate, the case of this property needs to be sorted out. That's how it's done with all the land's real estate. On the whole property we are talking about, then, we have a large extent of the ownership of the TECHA by expropriation. We've got a large part of a stranded area, obviously forested northward. We have small different parts that have been allocated by ownership, whether in the Municipality of Haidari or in the Municipality of Peristeri, five or six, I see here with a quick look at the property, separate parts that have been allocated. We have the area requested to be granted sixty acres to the limits of the urban fabric. We have an already handed over to the Municipality of Haidario and we have a small trumped-up lane, on which, in any case, we must consult to see what is going on, but that is not the big deal. With regard to the request, therefore, the release of the Block 15 building and its surroundings, I told you that these cannot be granted by the Military Service, as the proper operation of the camp is affected. But there is a very large part of the property, for which we are open to discussion. We await the response of the Municipality of Haidari within the framework, however, we have discussed to see the options that exist. I would also make it clear to you that every request to grant camps is always considered on a case-by-case basis and always in accordance with the requirements of the current institutional framework. The present institutional framework sets out a procedure, which I think is clear to all of us last Thursday. Someone wants a real estate from the National Defence Department's property, he's addressed to the National Defence Department, he's tabling the proposal. The TETA is addressed to the Real Estate Management Service of the Armed Forces of National Defence, the Ministry of Defence. The Office is considering the proposal, and if it considers it necessary to do so, it is moving towards a competitive process. In this competitive process, interested parties appear and, obviously, from there on, the case is on track, which may lead to a happy ending. Just as you talked about commitments in your question, I can make a commitment to this, that the Ministry of National Defence will do what it needs and from the beginning of next year even more organized. But these are priorities and we have to deal with enough. On the basis of a timetable, we will deal with this as well. After all, it is our strategic announcement from our programme statements that the best use of the property of the Armed Forces is based, however, on the fundamental needs of the National Defence, especially at this juncture, the very critical of the country. From there on, we're open to every conversation. Exploitation does not necessarily mean privatisation. Exploiting, however, does not necessarily mean granting unconditional concessions and conditions to a local body, especially when it has not taken the necessary steps to settle the property it asks or when it has not tabled a specific proposal, not a theoretical scheme, to make use of the property.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u26	Let's get it together, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u27	That is what I wanted to say to describe the system. Now you need to know it and, from there on, we are open to every debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u28	We move on to the questions which the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr. Panagiotis Mitarakis. First we will discuss the first with No 298/9-12-2019 a topical question from the New Democracy MP Karditsa, Azina Skondra, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Serious malfunction due to subsistence of the services of the Greek Farmers' Party of Thessaly". Mrs. Scottra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, first of all I would like to thank you, Mr President-in-Office, for being here today to answer the questions. It is certain that you are aware of the huge problem facing both the insured and the workers in the ECA. My question, however, focuses on the serious malfunction and thus inability to serve thousands of farmers in Thessaly by the services of the ECA - OGA based in Larissa. And it is based only in Larissa because there were local OGA correspondents there were no branches in the other cities of the other prefectures. As you know, the creation of the EMCDDA by unifying the insurance funds by the SYRIZA government without any planning and planning, but without the corresponding management of the services, has proved to be extremely problematic. In particular, OGA had to deal with a further issue, because its employees were not transferred to the new body as a whole, but were divided in the middle with half to join the ECA and the other half to the OPEK. As we all know, Thessaly is a purely agricultural and livestock region. The problem became extremely acute, since the fewer workers of the ECA - OGA Larissa are faced with issues that concern not only the lack of staff but also the necessary logistics. I would mention to you that from 1 January 2017 until you took over the Ministry of Labour, the employees ranged from eight to eleven. In June 2009 there were nine people, eight employees and one chief. They had twelve different objects to handle for the four counties of Thessaly with hundreds of thousands insured. The above data have created a congestion of the whole situation, unbearable working conditions for themselves, but also endless suffering and unauthorized delays for the traders.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u30	Go to the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u31	Of course, Mr President. The ratio for each employee was thousands of insured farmers. You understand the indignation of citizens, especially those who come from other prefectures, such as Cardinals and Cardinals, who travel over 50 kilometres to answer a question or to deal with their issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u32	Mrs. Scottra, I can't wait any longer. Say the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u33	I know, Minister, the enormous effort you are making to remove the problems that have been inherited from you. That is why I, too, ask you the question that the President is also saying if you are considering the creation of an ECA-OGA branch in the Cardiff Prefecture, which will clearly cut off the situation. If we do not describe the situation, how do we ask, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u34	Yeah, but we need to adjust it in time. Before giving the floor to the Minister, I also recommend to the new Members who were re-elected or elected for the first time not to thank the ministers - I said this to the previous government - because they come to answer questions. It is their primary parliamentary duty to come and be present in parliamentary control. He's more important than the legislative work. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. You're absolutely right. It goes without saying that the members of the government and the State Secretarys are obliged to be present at the National Representation and to answer Members' questions. With regard to the issue you raise about the Karditsa, it is an issue that we raised and discussed at our first meeting in July. I mean, you're the first MP to visit me at the Ministry of Labour. The first request for a local society we discussed was the theme of the Karditsa FBI. First of all, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress the general picture of the ECA, which we have received and which we have been called upon to address. Numerous and unsolved are many problems left behind by the previous government. We have seen from the first moment, since the first day we have taken over, an image of desolation, abandonment and absolute depreciation of social security institutions. We have presented the situation in detail. A million fifty - six thousand pensions are pending. A consolidation took place only on paper one night. In December 2016, all the tags of the EFKA changed throughout Greece, but up to there. There is neither a single benefit regulation nor a single way of working nor a change in the way in which the ECA operates. We have subordinated branches, infrastructures that have dissolution problems. This is a situation which is not worthy of either the insured or the social security workers. Since the first moment we have tried and made every effort within the current legislation and with the changes, of course, in the insurance law that will take place in January 2020, to improve the situation in the ECA. With regard to the issue of outstanding circulars, we are progressing rapidly and daily almost publishing circulars and answering unanswered questions that had been raised since 2016 to the Ministry of Labour and since the adoption of the Katrugalos Act, the regulatory framework had not been completed and this led to very significant delays. We're strengthening the staff. We've frozen the distractions and transfers from the FBI. We have strengthened the groups that issue pensions to deal with the problems we have found. In particular, with regard to the OGA, the creation of the OPEKA, the division of workers between two institutions, has created very important problems, which we need to deal with. More specifically for the establishment of an OGA branch in Carditsa, I inform you that according to Presidential Decree 8/2019, the local administration is provided for in Cardiff, which will serve not only the OGA members, but all the members of the OGA, who are now integrated, with more modern technology, with expanded responsibilities in relation to the existing structures of regional rural areas. This will facilitate access to ECAI services for a significant number of insured persons. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u36	Mrs. Scottra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is important that our fellow citizens are aware of the initiatives taken by your Ministry's services to stop this unacceptable situation that SYRIZA has inherited us and only in pensions, as you said. It is huge to expect, in a number of cases it is more than three years for the issue of pensions and now think about disability pensions and all the other transactions that they have even for the papers they need to take to deposit their documents with the CEDEFOP services. Also, thousands of farmers are trapped in the gears of bureaucracy, after so much delay in subjecting, registering or deletion to the OGA, so that they are in danger of losing their right to take part in agricultural programmes, which is very important. We all understand the weaknesses of the system and that the malfunctioning of the service is due to the huge workload, of course, and that is why we do not reflect on the officials, who do what is humanly possible, but their number is inadequate to serve farmers and pensioners as a whole. Although, during your days in the EFKA - OGA Larissa of nine staff in October, it reached eighteen, 15 permanent and three contractors of social work, it is still a question of finding definitive solutions that will bring about a regularity and eliminate the daily suffering of our farmers and farmers and of course of course of the employees, whether through more staff or through streamlining of the process and the use of information systems. In my view, the combination of both would be the best. Also, SYRIZA with his monstrosity and care, as he shared the employees, shared the offices, and today in Larissa eighteen employees have four offices at their disposal. As long as I tell you that for everyone to fit, two of them are hosted at the director's office. You must also take care of that, Minister. How do we expect workers to return to the difficult subject of pension calculations when they are forced to work literally on each other? Finally, Minister, I would like to ask you about those correspondents who have previously given insurance information and assurances, which has helped to decongested, but from 1-1-2019 the system is uninformed. What do you intend to do so that the insured in Larissa do not come down from the mountains of Argithea, the Sporades and Argalast? Secondly, with regard to unification, Minister, I should like to ask you how difficult it will be, and how much time it will take, since SYRIZA has created the EVA, but has not taken care of its statute, because there are no unified legislation in the funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u38	Here, Mr. Mitarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, for pointing out specific problems which we will look at very carefully. Also, to tell you that I recently visited the offices of the former OGA in Athens. I saw how the workers work, I saw the problems they are facing, a superhuman effort by the staff of the ECA to serve farmers, but there are many procedural issues that we need and we will resolve. I would also like to stress that the administration of the EFKA has proceeded with the adoption of decisions to transfer competences from the Regional Department of Thessaly to other regional offices of the EFKA in Thessaly, in order to dismantle the current difficult situation. In particular, the Regional Department of Thessaly, in order to carry out its outstanding tasks, the Heads of Administration of the Regional Branches of the Retired Cardiff, Larissa and Magnesia, and the local Larissa and Trikala Larissa Larissa Larissa and Trikala Larissa Larissa's local branches for all claims for a decision to apply to insurance, changes in registration and funeral expenses, maternity allowance and lottery care, as well as interruption decisions from insurance and deletion from insured registers. In this way more workers were given to serve the Karditsa farmers. With regard to staffing, in the framework of the 2020 annual recruitment programming of regular staff, the EESC approved the recruitment through AEP of 32,90 persons in order to meet the increased staff needs of the organisation. Let me stress - and this is the big bet - that for us 2020 is a year of digital transformation. By using technology we will be able to facilitate the access of insured and retired persons to social security institutions. Automated we will be able to identify most requests. We have set specific targets: in the summer of 2020, one third of pensions issued digitally, in the summer of 2021, 90% of applications are treated digitally. Correspondingly, records, changes in the EKA registers will enter the Ministry's overall strategy for digital transformation. Finally, on the subject of correspondents, as this institution ends, there will be specific provisions for the better service of farmers, which will be announced as the Ministry of Labour in due course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u40	We move to the third with No 296/9-12-2019 a timely question from the Member of Parliament of Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: ‘Is there finally a securitisation and sale of late payments of the Centre for the Collection of Insurance Debts?’. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, this question is a long-standing one, in that it has also been tabled on 18-11-2019. At that time Mr Metatakis declared a coma and was not discussed. Mr Brutsis, who would answer the question, was reinstated, but said he would not be ready to tell us the amounts of years that were unresolved in the CRL and with my consent he was postponed. And finally we are discussing the question today. Minister, there has been a clear publication of the 'REUTERS', which states that you who have the responsibility of opening up the outstanding debts of the CEEC's insurance funds of EUR 12 billion, which would be issued below nominal value. That was the statement, as stated in the 'REUTERS'. The Minister, Mr Brutsis, has disproved it and, of course, your answer, the 'no comment', also existed. It is clear that it created an issue, created some comments, and there was an ambiguity. This ambiguity and confusion prevailed in the statements made by the political leadership. The question, then, is clear: Who and on what basis did the securitisation plan, if any, reveal the 'REUTERS'? Also, what do you intend to do about the unregulated and overdue debts of the insurance funds? Secondly, what amounts of undrawn debt have been collected from the CRL from 2016 to 2018 and what is the target of 2019? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u42	Here, Mr. Mitarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, Mr Colleague, I apologise for not being available in the first statement of your question. I was abroad on an official mission of the Ministry of Labour. You know I've always been trying and I've almost never lost a question in the House in the last few years. I consider it my duty to be present, to reply. On the subject of publications, the Minister, Mr Brutsi, was quite clear, and quite rightly he said that we do not have a specific debt-sharing plan. That is the reality, and that is what I can confirm today at the National Representation. But let's see what's going on. As you well know, there is a large amount of accumulated debts at the moment to the social security institutions. According to the latest information from the CRL, the total outstanding debt to the social security funds amounts to EUR 35 billion. You are aware of the cuts in pensions that have been made over recent years, of the efforts made by many governments to look for rates much lower than the total amount of these dues, to cover in the difficult years of the crisis the obligations of social security institutions towards pensioners. You will agree with me that it is the state's primary obligation to collect the debts to the social security institutions and, at the same time, to pay every month all the pensioners' due. I think we will be able to agree on that. So we have tried to find a way to deal with these outstanding late payments from the first time. They come - just to say this - in about two years' contributions to the social security funds. We are therefore really considering any possible solution that can bring us results, improvements in collection at the least cost and with tangible results. This whole situation of debt works at the expense of the insured. We started from the early days of the Mitsotakis government ruling, giving the great opportunity with its brave improvements and extensions, adjusting the percentage of twenty instalments. We have made the best arrangements for the debts to the social security institutions and, in fact, this one hundred and twenty instalments programme would also lead to the lifting of the enforcement instruments imposed on debtors. Today the CRL receives about 1.3 billion euros a year from late payments. This is about 3.7% of the accumulated debts. This is the current situation and we are obliged to work, to find solutions to improve collection.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u44	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u45	Minister, I understand from your answer that it is clear and explicit to the House that there will be no securitisation and sale of undeclared debts in funds. That is what I understand as a response you have given clearly and explicitly. In relation to the statements as they were, there were statements and leaks. There had to be something. I do not know, of course, how the government's political leadership today comes and says this, which in any case is positive, in the sense that the unregulated debts of the CRL do not go to funds. From that point on, Minister, you said about the unresolved things. Indeed, the CRL is a mechanism that is quite effective. I think it can meet the obligations it has. However, you did not answer the question - for which Mr Brutsi also wanted to collect the information, to give it to the House and which they have not come to date - what has been done by the unregulated debts of the years 2016 to 2018 and the current one. You are not saying what existed and what exists every year in relation to the question. You have not answered this question in your prototype. I hope you respond to your dentistry. You said, Minister, about a hundred and twenty instalments and an amendment was voted the other day. May I ask you a simple question: Anyone who responded because he could not give the one dose, do you feel that, on the condition that the new law makes it possible for all debts to be paid, this information, in order to be included in the hundred and twenty instalments, will he in a new phase have such a chance? Is there ever such a possibility of the debtor? When he could not give the one dose, could he give all the unregulated debts and current debts, so that he could rejoin these instalments? Also, this is the continuation of another provision and regulation of your Ministry for the disabled, in which you set the twenty-four years time limit. And that is an issue that is incomplete, that is to say, the age criterion of getting into such a matter. I mean, the Ministry doesn't have a clear perception and picture of what it's going to do. It's moving with reasonable communication. I'm sorry to say, it's a critical situation, but we can't move with such reasonableness. We have specific situations and we have to deal with the problem as they are, to be useful and to be able to say something specific to the citizens. In any case, of course, with regard to the issue of unsuccessful debts in relation to the CRL, we want you to tell us - please tell us very much - because there are no receipts and what is due, since the CRL has the effective system and the mechanism in order to meet whatever obligations are in place and to be able to collect the amounts you say there are incorrectly. And, of course, you mention an unreserved sum of EUR 35 billion. Please very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u46	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u47	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. I'm a little concerned about the conclusions that you made in your dentistry. First of all, I said clearly that we are considering any possible solution that can bring us results in improving the collection of unsuccessful debts. Because you asked me for specific information, I will give you the numbers: For days SYRIZA in 2016 they were collected from a maturity of 820 million euros. This is about 1.5% to 2% of the outstanding debts that the CRL had at that time. In 2017, 1 billion euros was collected, in 2018, 1,300 000 euros were collected and this year we will go to about 1,400,000 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u48	You will be tabling this - I believe - in the Minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u49	I did. If you want me to testify to it in the Minutes, it's a plaque, I have nothing to do with it. So the essence is that so far, successive governments - I do not doubt that all the governments have tried - to receive about 3.5% of the accumulated debts every year. And as long as the years pass, as long as they are debts of five years, decades, fifteen years, 20 years, you realize that most of them become unacceptably collected and lost. That is something to worry about. Debts cannot be lost which are not collected and ultimately do not end up in the funds. There are multiple cases, Mr Colleague. There are small businesses, free professionals who have been hit by the crisis. We understand that, we have all spent ten difficult years and that is why the hundred and twenty doses were regulated, and that is why improvements were made the other day. Maybe you don't agree with all, but improvements were made, to try and keep as many as possible in a hundred twenty instalments. But there is something else, Mr President. There are strategic malpractices, which owe many millions to the EBRD, strategic malpractices, which are in operation with multiple VAT, with multiple companies, have been trying years by the CRL and by criminal means and by urban means to collect these amounts. So far, in recent years, collectivity has been maintained in this 3%, 3.5%. That's a number that can't satisfy us. It cannot be that the insurance system needs resources to increase the rates of replacement for those who worked for more than thirty-five, forty-four years, to lift the EUR 1.300 cap on the subsidiary - decisions of the Council of State - to give retroactive - where they eventually end up with the pilot trial - to reduce the contributions of the freelance professionals and, at the same time, to have two, two and a half years of unreported contributions. You will agree with me that a solution must be found. We need to improve collection. So what I'm telling you is that Mr. Brutsis and I correctly disproved of the publication 'REUTERS', because this particular project, which he said, has not been prepared. So he did not respond to reality. There's no plan for this. But I say to you that we need to find the best possible solution to support the funds, it is our obligation, and I believe that you will not disagree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u50	Before we move on, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, seventeen-year-old students and students from the School of Nursing Officers and one of their officers, as well as thirty-five students and students and three educational attendants from the 2nd Naoussa High School. The House welcomes both groups of guests. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would like to thank Mr Andreas Michaelides, who accepted a request from the Minister, Mr Theodorikos, on a predetermined date, to postpone his question to Mr Metarakis for a short time. We move to the sixth Question No 306/9-12-2019 on the second question of the Messinia MP of the Radical Left Coalition Alexandros Haritsis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Philodimos" programme. Here, Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the area of self-government - and especially the primary one - was indeed an area that suffered the consequences of the ten-year crisis and the memoranda, especially in the part of funding. We have seen the municipalities in the country undergo a significant reduction in their financial needs. If this is to be taken into account, and the fact that in 2014 the government did not negotiate and draft a programme within the framework of the new NSRP 2014-2020 programming period, especially for the area of self-government, we realise that the financial possibilities were too limited. We have always tried, in cooperation with the authorities - and I would like to point out this for the time being and publicly, to thank all the representatives of self-government for the cooperation we have had over the years - to address this problem. In order not to be long, we tried to deal with it by creating a programme that responded to the real needs of self-government, and this programme was the "PHILDIMOS" programme. It was a programme, Minister, which was embraced by the entire area of self-government. There is not a single self-government factor - regardless of party position - who did not take a positive view of this programme, precisely because it had a very important feature of this programme. It was flexible, of course, as to the possibility of financing projects, it had objectivity and merit in terms of the criteria it established for assessing the proposals. And there was another very important point, it did not burden the municipalities with 1 euro, precisely because the financing of projects takes place in the "PHILDIMOS" programme, through the Public Investment Programme with the interim financing of the Deposits and Loans Fund and the European Investment Bank. While we have this very successful programme and while replying to a question from forty two SYRIZA Members under Protocol No 8348 on 12-11-2019, you were talking about the smooth implementation of the programme and, even before, on 18 September 2019, you announced the continuation, extension of all open programmes from the "PHILDIMOS" programme by 31 December, as you said, in order to facilitate all municipalities in areas such as water infrastructure and social interventions - very important structures and then we welcomed this extension and told you that we are at your disposal to cooperate and be able to help in the implementation of these programmes - so suddenly and unexpectedly on 28-11-2019 at the general meeting of the CEDEFOP you expressed the hope of announcing the abolition of the program "PILOPOS". This is a communication which has also caused a great deal of disturbance in the field of self-government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Minister, please and I challenge you to see the video from yesterday's meeting of the CEDEFOP Management Board. We expect and hope that the new administration of the CEDEFOP will also play its part, in the way in which we have worked together all the time away from micro-participatory purposes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u52	To perform our own role too, Mr Haritsi, while keeping time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u53	There is, therefore, a great excitement in the area of self-government, the municipalities. That is why, Minister, I ask you, firstly, what is the fate of the projects already integrated or to be included and the active invitations to the "PHILDIMOS" programme and, secondly, what criteria will be applied and the projects will be incorporated into the new programme announced by the Ministry of Interior. What, then, are the differences with the ‘Philodimos’ programme and where will the funding that does not exist, as you say, in the new programme for ‘Philodimos’? We expect answers to these questions, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u54	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Michaelides, thank you for facilitating. Mr. Haritsis, thank you for the question you have asked me, but I really do wonder how you found the courage to submit it. There is no doubt that local government has very serious needs. Local communities have very serious needs, problems and it is a matter of immediate priority to produce infrastructure projects that improve people's quality of life, ensure and promote social cohesion and security in local communities. And for our government, the area of self-government is an absolute priority. That is why we are constantly upgrading the institution, and we are preparing ourselves with a new legislative intervention, following the intervention for the governance of the municipalities, to give new powers, staff and resources to self-government. As far as very specific parameters are concerned, Mr Haritsis, the reality is that in a programme of around EUR 1.3 billion, as you mentioned in your question, twenty projects have been made, which have been agreed with a budget of EUR 30 million and the only money you have guaranteed was EUR 134 million, which came from the loan of the Deposit and Loans Fund from the European Investment Bank. In short, from the EUR 1.3 billion you had guaranteed EUR 134 million. You shared promises with uncovered checks on the municipalities. That's the reality. And you did this in the 2018 election year and in 2019, because you knew what was waiting for you in the elections, in the parliamentary and in municipal elections, and you had to find yourself somewhere to catch. The municipalities need the works, the works must be done. And our Government and the Ministry of Interior are already in advanced discussions with the European Investment Bank and with the Deposit and Loan Fund, and I categorically state that we are not going to allow any work to be lost. But the big difference that we and you have is that we are talking about real projects with real money for real needs, which meet the demands of the municipalities. We are therefore preparing a new programme from 2020 to 2023, which will have combined financing from the European Investment Bank and from the Deposit and Loans Fund, always with the help - to cover the borrowing - of the Public Investment Programme. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Therefore, there is no need for real concern, because I believe that within this period we will ensure the resources that you have not taken care of.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u56	Here, Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u57	Minister, I'll tell you where I found the courage to ask this question. I found it because we spent too much time and too much energy for months working with the authorities to be able to create this programme. So that's where I found this courage to ask you this question. Because you go and do away with such an important programme. However, as I see that many times, unfortunately, you take her as a weakness, I will answer you that you are resorting to insults, and I will answer you in the way you answer me. Since it seems that in your case the political courage is combined with a similar technical ignorance, you should be aware that the common practice of the European Investment Bank dictates that every framework loan, which finances a project package, starts with an initial conservative level of budget, which then gradually and with the implementation of projects, Minister. The 134 million, not just the ceiling, but the start of the programme. The funding is provided for under the relevant law of 2017. In 2017, we created the programme, Minister, and not by election, as you blame us. Therefore, SYRIZA states in paragraph 1 of Article 69 that the provision of loans, in accordance with the relevant legislation, and the coverage of any kind of exit and other costs of consuming and paying them shall be on an account set up in the Deposits and Loans Fund financed by the national or co-financed part of the Ministry of Interior's Public Investment Program. At the moment, we have in this very successful programme EUR 1,235 billion of good projects. The success of the project is huge. They account for five hundred two works throughout the country, of which seventy - seventy projects amounting to 450 million euros have already been auctioned. If, Minister, there was a question with the funding of these projects, you could very simply resort to it, which the Ministry of Finance of your Government itself says in the 2020 budget, which is talking about the expected under-utilisation of the Public Investment Programme for 2019 by EUR 600 million. What does that practically mean? It means that even if we theoretically assume that all projects were to be carried out this year until December 31, 2019 - something that is practically impossible, because we all know that the projects are being carried out in depth, within two, three, four years - there was the reserve from the sub-executing of the Public Investment Programme to finance all projects. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Sadly, these are prophecies in sin, Minister. You remove a programme that has guaranteed funding from the Public Investment Programme. The reserves and loans available are higher than the total budget of the projects that have been integrated and acted as an accelerator for the European Investment Bank, as has been done in the past in all the programmes concerned. Because the authors are also listening to us, the mayors are listening to us, and I repeat that there is no financing problem with the "Philostroimos" programme. Financing is secured. The only problem that exists is your own political decision to abolish this successful programme, because you want to go back to old-fashioned reasonable, old-fashioned practices, to pass by the mayors from your office to seek, demand, beg for the inclusion of a project. We left these behind with the "Philosmos". Find me an self-government who will protest about the way in which these projects were assessed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u58	Finish, Mr. Haritsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u59	Bring me, even a self-government party to protest. All the self-government actors, all the mayors embraced this programme, a program perfectly successful. You are abolishing this programme, just to return to logic in previous decades, which we wanted to have left behind. You should ultimately account, not to us, but to the very self-government for the great damage you cause, with five hundred two projects, which are currently on the air, with thousands of workers who will not have a job...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Haritsi, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u61	...with resources lost by the Public Investment Programme and a government that swears, is supposed to be, to growth, but proves that it does not care about growth. What she's interested in is being older than the old...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Haritsis, have you taken over that there is a president? You're aware of it because I saw that you're ignoring me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u63	I understand that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u64	If you notice, keep your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u65	And thank you for your tolerance, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u66	So instead of saying that...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u67	...I have to answer the minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u68	We agree, but the Rules of Procedure are rules. Please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u69	I shall therefore close, Mr President, and thank you very much for your tolerance. No financing problem exists for "Philosmos". The only problem that exists is your old-fashioned methods, which are trying to abolish such a successful programme. I call on you, even at the very last moment, to withdraw this decision, not to put the area of self-government hostage into hostage and to proceed with the implementation of this very successful programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Haritsis, please ask a question about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u71	Of course, we're here to control you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u72	All right, do it. We're closed. There's nothing else to write. Just for the record, I would remind you that last decade there was the 'THESIS' programme, which was an excellent programme and was executed at 100%. I say this because I heard something for decades ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u73	The programme "THESIS", Mr. Minister, has been well equipped for projects after a decade...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u74	I know about the programme 'THESIS'. I'm not actually getting into it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u75	(...not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u76	You don't have the floor. Don't write any of what Mr. Haritsis says. Absolutely nothing! You only take your word whenever you want to. For God's sake! Of you, at least I have increased demands.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u77	You have also commented, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u78	Yeah, because if I don't yell, it's out of order. And, Mr. Giannoulis, I would remind you that we have urgent bills after. I'll be here. I'm telling you more, not personally. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Haritsis, I feel that your party delirium is part of your obligations as a representative of the Chief of Staff of the Opposition. But apart from the lies about "Philosmos", there is truth. And the reality, Mr. Haritsis, is that five hundred two works you had set up to the mayors to save you from election.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u80	We hadn't set it up, we had it all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u81	They were works with uncovered checks. With regard to the five hundred projects, the current government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the current leadership of the Ministry of the Interior will ensure that they are implemented and no mayor should worry about that because our purpose is not to question the usefulness of the projects. Our aim is to ensure the works. We want, I repeat, to do real projects with real funding that meet real needs. Don't bother. You should assist in this effort. We are united in the area of self-government, we are'sarx of the flesh' and as a party and personally and you have no doubt that the next four years will be four years that self-government will produce hundreds of projects throughout the country for the benefit of its citizens. The big difference is that we're not and we're not the free guys, but we're here to work hard with self-government to achieve results. No cause for concern. The new programme will implement all the projects. No work will be left outside our programme and new work will be added to it. Specific communications will take place at the beginning of next year, as our agreements with the European Investment Bank and the Deposit and Loans Fund have been finalised. Really projects for real needs in real time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u82	We move on to the second question to Mr Theodorikos. It is the seventh, with number 315/10-12-2019, timely question by Hercules of the Change Movement, Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: ‘The representation of Greece in the Committee of the Regions of the European Union (EU)’. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. The development needs, to address local issues and affairs led the European Union to the establishment of a committee in which the local authorities of each country member of the European Union will have direct contact and contact with the institutions of the European Union itself, without state interference. This has to do with local development, of course. On the occasion of the previous debate, I should like to say that historically, the EBRD, EAPTA, "KAPITISTRIA", "THESE", the "ELLADA" programme, has operated and implemented. Through the ESDP integrated urban development programmes, rural infrastructures through the rural development programme. We therefore have a series of programmes relating to the European Union, and that, Minister, which you must see - to close parentheses - is not as an alibi, because they had not done well because there was indeed no financial guarantee - I remember the amendment they brought back at the time - but how these necessary projects are to be carried out which the municipalities have studied, okay, proposed through the present possibilities. The Committee of the Regions of the European Union has a strong institutional role to do with self-government itself. My question concerns the procedure that we must follow to be institutionally correct, but also effective. I am saying this because it is a transitional stage, new principles have been elected, and, in a way, because of the time constraints, I do not know - and we do not know - whether you have taken the necessary consultation with the newly elected bodies of self-government, that is, the new composition of the CEDEFOP, the new composition of the EIA, so that there is a proportional representation of the thirteen regions and thirty-three municipalities, some of them municipalities, and of course within this representation, that there is the pluralism of the representation of the wider selfgovernment, as expressed in the regions and in the first degree of selfgovernment, and that of course also have a broader affiliation and relationship with the political families of Europe, the European People's Party, the Social Democrats, the liberals, the leftists and all other groups. The information is that you have sent, because of deadlines, a delegation, but it seems that it requires correction, revision, so that it meets these criteria, which I have spoken about and I would like to hear your position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u84	Good. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u85	As you mentioned, Mr Kegeroglu, and the previous question, I entirely agree with what you have said. We were not restricted to highlighting the truth about what had happened in the "Philosmos". We are concerned, as I said before, that the projects should be done, that the development programme should be fully developed and new ones added. That is our responsibility, and that is why we will be judged by the Greek people and not by what the previous ones have done. But we were obliged to tell the truth. As regards your question about the permanent Greek delegation to the European Union from the area of self-government, I would like to inform you that I have certainly consulted the representatives of the regions and mayors. But take into account that I had a specific deadline within which I had to move and send the proposal, which did not allow me to consult with the new administration of the CEDEFOP. That was an objective issue. The choice I have made is representative, at least in terms of political spaces within the administration. I understand that if you were a Minister, you would make other choices, but I have nothing to comment on. We will see how the delegation moves forward, we will see how its work goes, and here we are to see again if anything needs to be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u86	Dear Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u87	Thank you for giving me the floor. I am obviously not satisfied with the Minister's answer for two specific reasons: the first is because he has admitted very sincerely that he has not consulted the newly elected institutions and therefore the composition of the committee, according to the citizens' mandate, is not representative of the people in the last elections. This in itself leads at least to the need, not to change radically, but to revise the composition, so that after a consultation, you can proceed to representative representation. Yesterday in the CEDEFOP, where the issue was raised, the management meeting was held. In fact, a letter will be sent to you on a recommendation from Mr Kyizoglou, which was unanimously voted on, that they do not accept the previous proposal by Mr Patulis, the previous administration, and want representation for the next few years to be the result of their own consultation. You, of course, have the final word, but it cannot, Minister, be represented in whole or represented as appropriate. Because you're telling me there's someone who's generally and vaguely in this space. No, it's not like that. Here there are complex groups that took part in the CEDEFOP, and I would like to tell you the percentages. Of course, the New Democracy party dominated it, but it's not the only one. And our party took 20% of SYRIZA's took 8%, actually 7.8%, of the JRC took a similar rate, and they should be represented. It can't be done. The same thing should be seen in wider terms. It is possible to ask us from the European Union - because that is where they are part of the respective groups, as I have told you - from the Social Democrats to tell them who they are and to look and not find in the delegation. It is not a matter of any kind, i.e. whether it was me or others. It is an institutional process, consultation and representation. The government has nothing to gain by sending all government, nothing, but nothing to win. I do not know the composition, the names, but I know the exclusions, and the administration of the CEDEFOP cannot say the same thing that I say when it is known that the administration of the CEDEFOP has dominated the self-government of the New Democracy. He's dominating, and he says the same thing I say. I'll write you a letter tomorrow. And I wonder. I would therefore ask why you have rightly said 'with the deadlines'. And so in the first phase, yes, so it was with the previous administrations. But now that we have the new administrations, which we have parties in Greece and have had a good example yesterday, despite our disagreements and our conflicts,...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u88	Don't lie down now, don't go to the vote on the frustrations.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u89	I'm hanging up. We have set a good example yesterday to which you are spending time, concessions have been made from here and there to find the common place. The other why? I think it's a matter of mood and will. Show her that mood and will, Minister, before ratification. The composition of the committee has not yet been ratified, so we have time to change it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u90	Good. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u91	I repeat, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that I have consulted the organs of self-government and the organs of the regional and mayors. I simply made it clear, Mr Kegeroglu, that there was a time limit within which I had to send my decision, which preceded the emergence of the new administration of the CEDEFOP. It's just so simple. You know very well that my mood and my policy at the moment when I exercise the responsible duties of the Minister of the Interior is to seek consensus and convergence. I'll do the same from now on. The decision we have reached is representative and I am sorry, but because you represent the PASOK political area, I honestly wonder...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u92	But you have also appointed, Minister. And he says everything about representation that while we're entitled to five... (he didn't hear)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u93	Mr. Kegeroglu, listen to the answer, and then you're free to do whatever you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u94	I have to tell him...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u95	Yeah, but they can write, too. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u96	I honestly wonder if you do not know that the Director of Crete, Mr. Arnautakis, is a executive in the political area of PASOK, represented by the Change Movement, and that he is also a Cretan. Because I understand that your criticism of the decisions that I have made obviously stems from the fact that you will probably not have met a request you had not made.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u97	We are moving forward and returning to the patient with courtesy, Mr Andreas Michaelides, MP Chios of SYRIZA, whose question will now be discussed. The fourth question, then, under number 304/9-12-2019, will be discussed by MP Chios of the Radical Left Coalition, Andreas Michaelides, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: ‘Announcement of a document 2016 on the employment of pensioners of the NAT at the Academies of Commercial Navy (AEN)’. Mr. Michaelides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in October with a surprise decision you issued a document excluding and abolishing a large group of retiring seafarers from the exception of 60% of their pensions if these pensioners offer services to the Commercial Navy Academy. This document, of course, created a great, serious malfunction in the smooth implementation of the educational programme of the Chambers of Commerce Navy and, of course, it created a major issue for them themselves, since you not only remove them the right to provide services, but also with the retroactive effect of your document, and they are actually being asked to reimburse three years' pay, saying that it was a bad type of regulation made by your predecessor and that you would also fix on an imminent legislative initiative. I would like to remind you that three days ago a multi-brand plan was passed, which you would really be able to regulate, if there were indeed such a matter, which you did not do. I also want to point out that all these three years from 2016 to 2019, which you discovered that there is this bad regulation with your predecessor's decision, there was absolutely no question, the payments of the orders were made normally, so we can't really understand the reasoning, the logic of this document of yours. Please explain exactly what you intend to do and above all what the reasons you have made of this sudden, unexplained and harmful decision are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u99	Mr Metatakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u100	Mr Colleague, I am very surprised by your question for two reasons. Firstly, because we have already answered it on 7 November in this Chamber, and we have clearly said that the government will bring special legislation...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u101	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u102	We've answered to you...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u103	Mr. Kegeroglu, you didn't talk, Mr. Michaelides spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u104	...and we have said that we will bring a provision of law, which retrospectively from 1-1-2017 will resolve the issue that SYRIZA created at the Commercial Navy Academy. But the main reason why I am amazed by your question, Mr Colleague, is this. And I will read to you and tell you whether it reminds you of something that I will read to you: 'To the pensioners of EKKA who take over work or acquire a status or are engaged in an activity which is compulsory in the EKKA', and work as a teacher is compulsory to be held in EKKA, 'gross pensions, main and subsidiary, are reduced to 60%'. It reads: ‘Specially if they are active in general government bodies, the pension is suspended’. It is the Katrugalu law that you voted for, Mr. Colleague, your law created this problem. You said my predecessor sent me a circular. He didn't send a circular, sent a letter, which has no ADD, has not come out on “DENMARK”, it has not been notified to the EMCDDA. Do you know why? Because it was illegal. Because the same article of the Katrugalo Law does not give the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs an authoritative provision to give him the right to grant an exception. But this letter from Mr. Petropulou, he has to go into history, enter the National Library. Let me read it to you: 'From the grammar and final interpretation of that provision it appears that this does not apply in cases of full-time employment'. So a teacher who has been teaching thirty hours a week in the last four years has been totally opportune? He went by and they told him to go up for an hour to help? Oh, no. Consequently, Mr Petropoulos's letter, even if it had a legal basis, did not cover these teachers. Because once EFKA checked - and EFKA checked - it considered that these teachers who were teaching for three years thirty hours a week, so they were full-time and full-time, were not covered by this letter from Mr. Petersburg. So, do you know what the mistake we made? When this matter came up - and I had also asked a question in 2016 - we trusted that you know how to legislate. But you don't know how to legislate. You came to a law of your own, which did not have the permission to make a letter of no legal value. You have created the problem, and now we have to solve it, and we will resolve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory of seventeen students and schoolchildren and two of their educational attendants from the 11th Municipal School of Glyfada. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr. Michaelides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u106	Undersecretary, the opposition to opposition is good, but I feel that you should finally feel that you are government and therefore do not answer my question on the substance. In other words, what initiative will you take, as you promised, to correct what you said was a passive document of your predecessor. And that's not what you're answering. I am telling you again that NAT's insurers, naval teachers, have already been informed by their insurers that their insurer is moving on with the retention of 60% of pensions - at your disposal in the relevant message - and, indeed, they are soon to withdraw, because the 60% cut is essentially disastrous for them. Furthermore, the major issue that arises and I regret that, as a member of the Chios county, you should bear in mind that this delay in this initiative, which you have announced for two months, raises a major issue for the Oinoussa Academy of Merchants. In fact, the interruption, if any, of any problems in the operation of this academy creates a major issue for the very life of the island, the islanders. Instead, you tell us that previous governance has not properly regulated the issue and so on. At last, come to your senses. I repeat, the opposition to opposition is good, but at last take initiatives to resolve issues. Communication policy is good, Mr Mitarakis, but you know there are also explosive issues, which you should finally take responsibility and resolve. Please answer me when you will take this legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u107	Good. Mr. Metarakis, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u108	My dear colleague, I wrongly blamed you on the protagonists of your question, because in your dentistry you had a disgusting honesty. Thank you very much for that. You accepted, in fact, that Mr. Peter’s letter was illegal. You didn't take time to support it in your dentistry, and that's very right...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u109	I didn't say that. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u110	As you also indirectly said that the Katorugalou Act was disastrous about the effects it created on retired people who work, so I thank you for your disarming honesty.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u111	Mr President, I'm sorry, but I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u112	Mr President, these are in the interpretation given by Mr Metarakis and not by the word of what you have said. I'll fill it out. Understood by the State Secretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u113	I also inform you that NAT has not taken any action. If you have an official NAT document, please testify. NAT has not taken any action pending the legislative initiative. The provision is specific and will say “the provisions of this Article shall not apply to pensioners of the former NAT, who provide training in public maritime education from 1-1-2017 to 30-7-2020. This will go into the insurance bill, where it must enter properly, in law and in law. We have announced it since 7 November, in response to Mr Kegeroglu's question, so that there is no concern and doubt about the pensioners of NAT. Let me say, however, that the Minister has said that the Brutsi Act in January will have a more general care for pensioners who choose to remain in the labour market. We believe that the Katorugalou law is punishable to pensioners, creates age racism, and the Minister has already said that he is reviewing this article in general, so that there is a more general provision that allows those who want, for personal reasons, to remain in the labour market a few years longer, not to have an incentive, but to be able to do so. So do not worry, Mr Colleagues, and above all do not concern the teachers of the schools who are listening to the House today. The government in the insurance bill will also have a special and general provision, covering them retrospectively from 1-1-2017. We will address the problem created by the Katorugalou Act, which you, Mr Colleague, voted on - we remind you of this article - you have voted for it, so it is rather a temptation to protest about the consequences of an article that you voted on to the pensioners of NAT. The problem is that you have created it, we will solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u114	Good. We are now moving on to the eighth Question No 319/10-12-19, by Hercules Hercules of the Change Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Only Municipal SME, Parents, families with disabilities over 24 years of age and children of third families stay out of social dividends". The State Secretary, Domna Michailidou, will answer. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. We have the honour to have all the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour here and we expect clear answers, but also answers that will be announced to implement commitments and not just that they will be made at some point. Minister, with the government's decision and the amendment adopted by this House, there will be the possibility of EUR 175 million, as the government says, for families and weak people who really need the support and assistance of the state in these days as a social dividend. Of course, from the outset, we have not entered the logic of the thirteenth pension to be dividends. We are talking about the net thirteenth pension from the insurance system and not from the welfare scheme. I am making this clear and I come to the request today: answer us if you intend to come to the joint ministerial decision, which you will issue with the Minister of Finance, to propose that you include also the lonely people with disabilities and the parents of children with disabilities over 24 years of age, since, as you said, at least initially, you will only include families with disabilities, but up to 24 years of age. So we have two categories so far, as I have said, of families with children over the age of twenty-four years with disabilities and, of course, of lonely people with disabilities, who are one person and, indeed, disabled. Of course I can tell you that you have also announced that the children of a large number of families, that is, four children or more, will be eligible. Here too, there is one issue that has to do with the third parties, since of course it meets the financial requirements you set out. A child of a weak family whether it is a tritectus or a polytectus has the same needs. We ask these questions and we want your answer, if you think, what you are thinking about the joint ministerial decision that you will be adopting today, tomorrow, because it needs to be adopted to prevent and implement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u116	You have the floor, Mrs. Michaelidou. I expect to hear, too, especially about lonely people with disabilities. I make the point to you, not as a Member or a President-in-Office, but as a doctor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President, and your own concern about this issue. Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. I hope I will not disappoint you because my answer will be very short. In our ministry, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, we take care of exactly the people you described. We understand this, we understand its dimensions and importance. But I would like to make no progress and ask you to wait immediately for our Minister of Finance's announcement, which will tell you and inform you - Immediately, I say again - of how the issue you have raised is being formulated. Once again, I am sorry for my brief reply, but I am telling you that the government's information will be immediate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u118	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, the answer you give me is not a reply from the Ministry of Labour, in the sense that the joint ministerial decision will bear your signature and will be signed by Mr Staikora. I also had the honour of serving in the same position for the 2014 dividend, if I remember correctly, the joint ministerial decision with Mr Stakoura again bears my signature. But I had then transferred to the Minister all the work we had done to the Ministry of Labour and put the priorities that had to be found. We have put them and accepted them by the Minister, because we have documented them and said that on the basis of these priorities we are coming as the Ministry of Social Protection. So I do not want it to be what Mr Stakoras will ultimately accept to do as signatories and have the koruna as well. I ask you something very simple, which you cannot deny. What will you propose to the Minister of Finance to join the joint ministerial decision? You are neither an employee of the Ministry to say "The political leadership will propose" nor an external partner. You're the undersecretary of State will sign your signature. So, will you sign it under a joint ministerial decision that will not have the lonely LEADER in it? That's the question. You must answer us, and of course, if necessary afterwards, we will ask Mr Stakoura a question, because he has cut off the proposal of the Ministry of Labour. But I want to know if there is, Mrs. Michalidou. I'm so sorry. You have an institutional obligation to propose the priorities and to inform us of these priorities in public. These are made public in democracy, in order for democracy to function better, to have the best result and no exclusions from the general spirit, as announced by the government. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u120	There is a reason for that, Madam Secretary of State, for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u121	Thank you. Mr Kegeroglu, I think in principle but also in fact we do not disagree with what we have said and what we have prioritised from the government's side. You know that, in order for a democracy to function well, and in order for a government to function properly, the ministries must be complementary and not competitive. So with the Treasury, we're in excellent relationship and we're shaping as much as we can the social dividend. I would remind you that the social dividend and the way it was given this year was disproportionate to the way it was given in previous years. That is where we have two issues. The first issue is that, by the way, you know that, but the previous government also knows it - the dividend was paid in May, as a pre-election third, which left no budgetary gap, according to the then Minister of Finance Mr Tsakalotos to the next government, and what we did is very specific to give what we considered to be a fair social dividend, which helps our most vulnerable citizens. Before that our Government succeeded and ensured that it opens up the financial capacity to families through the reduction of HICP, the reduction of the import tax rate, through the tax-free on construction and through many horizontal measures to help everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u122	Are you suggesting Lonely LOADs? A ‘yes’ or a ‘no’.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u123	What are we doing? We come and say what our target is. As you have seen, Mr Kegeroglu, all three measures in the social dividend that we have been able to make with great effort concern the Ministry of Labour. That's why you've seen all three of us, the entire department's leadership, here today. That's our priority. You'll see how it expresses itself. And I'm telling you to be patient and you'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u124	Are you going to suggest them?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u125	The point is, we take care of them. And the leadership of our ministry...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u126	Are you suggesting Lonely LOADs?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u127	Mr Kegeroglu, but there is no dialogue. There's a process.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u128	You have a binding obligation to respond.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u129	I'm answering. Our ministry is looking after all people with disabilities, and that's why you're getting a very immediate answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u130	You didn't answer. It's disrespectful.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u131	Mr. Kegeroglu, the process is over. We enter the second with number 303/9-12-2019 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Giannoulis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Secure operation of the annex of the Centre for the Training and Restoration of Blinds in Thessaloniki (formerly School of Tbillons) after the recent fire at its premises". Here, Mr. Giannoulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u132	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I understand that the multi-faceted presence of the Ministry of Labour, the political leadership, is difficult to answer, because it is obviously not political responsibility for you who represent the Ministry of Labour and I understand it when there are budgetary issues. A little earlier, however, Minister, we were talking about "Philosmos", an expressive misinterpretation or another dimension of "Philosmos" is also an honorable one in Greece. And on the point I want to ask you about the Blind School, it seems that sensitivity and simplicity are missing. Because you know the people tell us 'the fire burns where it falls'. The fire fell in an institution, which has a long and important social offer to people with particular problems, people who either have total loss of sight or reduced sight. It's a disability that's very complex, and you're sinking them in the dark in the following way. A short circuit of the impoverished electrical network of the School of Blind in the center of Thessaloniki resulted in a fire and therefore the seven pets cannot be hosted, as well as a hundred people with visual problems from all over Central Macedonia. I would like to tell you that this building is a reference point not only for people with visual problems in Thessaloniki, it is also a reference point for Central Macedonia, but also for European or dialkan initiatives taken through the Blind School. You have already in your hands a multi-page note, fourteen pages, if I am not mistaken, of all disabled people in Greece and people with visual problems, in which, in fact, paragraph to paragraph undoes this, which is politically confirmed after 7 July: lies, lies, lies, lies, lies, excessive and inexpensive rhetoric, demagogy and promise of everything. Now comes the fund time and the fund what results? Inadequacy of actions. What I describe about the Blind School, Minister, has been in October. By the time we're talking, you've auctioned promises and commitments, either with the State lottery or with other funding. Things are in a tragic state. This building, I want to remind you, - why are you ready to very easy settling 'But what have you been doing for four and a half years?' - this building, you know, has many guardians, the municipality, the district of Central Macedonia. No one focused their attention and interest in a building that is almost ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u133	Mr Colleague, you have exceeded speaking time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u134	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying this: I understand that it is not a glorious field for this communication, which the Ministry of Labour has taken over. For example, it is a little like the five thousand highly qualified young scientists who fly on the road from the OAED programme to make the five hundred, who will transfer from abroad with the salary of three thousand. You didn't even think of the five hundred children who stayed in Greece, who studied in Greece, who have at least two postgraduate and are the most doctors and throw them on the road to become Mr. Vroutsi's fieste and a number of other things. I would like to insist on the question: at least with the Blind School will you have the sensitivity of getting into a programme not only to restore the damage to the fire, but a comprehensive programme? Because it's a responsibility, it's not politics. I have heard you say: 'I am not a politician, I am a technocrat'. We are people mainly and because we are here for people, I would like a clear answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u135	You've almost exhausted the dentistry, Mr. President. The reason for this is that Mrs Domna Michailidou has the floor for her prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u136	Mr Giannoulis, while I have to admit that you are extremely sympathetic to me, and naturally but also to the calmness of the speech, very sympathetic, I am sadly surprised at the misinformation that you do not have the time - I hope it is a matter of time, not a matter of intentions - both for what you have heard and for what you have read and been generally informed. Your question is a good reason for our Ministry to present not only what you are called an honorable one. For us is the least common denominator. To do our job and to ensure that the institutions of solidarity and social welfare, which supervise our Ministry, operate and operate properly, are absolutely essential and the minimum, which we can do. So before I answer your question, I would like to say before the National Representation that the government is working systematically to support the work of the welfare agencies, our people with disabilities and is determined to strengthen them, both in pieces of infrastructure and in pieces of intellectual potential, which it has already done. As far as this is concerned - because I understand that you know parts of it, but not all of the flow as it stands - on the day of the fire at the premises of the CRL, which is indeed a point of reference for us, both domestically and internationally, to the extent possible - we are doing so - we have asked the Director of the Centre for the full written information, which we have received immediately. Since then, we have been closely following the course of damage recovery that has been caused. More specifically, in addition to the relevant telephone communications and the exchange of electronic and service mail with the administration of the centre, a meeting took place in my office with representatives of the employees' club, who have informed us of the problems in the electrical facilities of the operator's buildings and have provided us with an estimate of the necessary work and the budget and its related costs, between 95 and 100 thousand. According to the most recent information we have, we have made and taken the following action, three and virtually four actions. Firstly, we have made the immediate restoration of the space so that these guests, which you referred to, are inversely returning there. Secondly, the CECT Board decided to draw up a restoration study of the electrical installations as well as the centre's fire safety. Thirdly, measures were taken to support the owner, who had started the fire in order not to repeat this. In understanding the urgent need for the centre's equipment with new electrical facilities, we asked the competent authorities to satisfy, as a matter of priority, the submitted request from the CST to cover the above expenditure, which, as a ministerial decision, has already signed, has left our Ministry. It is in the Ministry of Finance for immediate signature and it covers a sum of EUR 95 000, which has come out first of all from the resources of the National Lottery, which we manage. The political reflexes of the Ministry's leadership assure you that they are excellent and we are always ready to respond, as I said before, to the metro that is possible, to the funding needs of the welfare institutions, if they are documented and with respect for the principles of transparency and efficient use of public resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u137	Mr. Giannoulis, you have two minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u138	I do not want to hide that you, too, are like a natural person and the political activity that you have undertaken is very interesting, but I will simply comment on it. Have you been to the Blind School building in Thessaloniki? I imagine no, and I can assure you that it is not your responsibility, because, in this regard, others had to be preceded before you. I can assure you, therefore, that none of your colleagues in the government majority have visited this building for too many years, and also none of your chosen counterparts in local government has paid any attention. It's a ruin. It is a shame on the welfare structures, on the structures of a social state, to have this building, with such an important contribution. I also want to tell you that in your reply, you are again dismissing responsibility by transferring it to the Ministry of Finance. Procedurally - and you are right - the money that is needed is not electrical at the moment. It is essential, as in other groups with disabilities and with serious problems, that we respond as a society and as a state to the basic question, which neither the Ministry of Labour nor the Welfare Secretarys. It is the question of parents or disabled persons: 'What will our children become when we die?' This, Minister, is the main question, which concerns the society of disabled people, including those with visual problems, and this question, unfortunately, we have no answers and I am not covered by the answer to a short-circuit or the restoration of an electrical table. The key question, urgently asked to all civil servants, by people with disabilities today, by parents, to the question, "What will our children become when we die?", we have no answer. I also insist that we do not have an answer, and how we manage the policy for young people, for the unemployed, for the disabled, to make it fierce and not substantial, with justice, dignity and evaluation. I'll insist. You invite five hundred young scientists from abroad. I'm telling you, they're being thrown on the road with a Brutsi signature of five and a half thousand high-qualified young scientists who could be involved in something like that, and that's a real darkness to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u139	Please, Mrs. Undersecretary for her dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u140	Now you, too, have opened up so many issues that we can start from where to start. I understand that this question was about the KEAT, and we in the Ministry of Social Welfare also share the key question of what will happen when they leave life. But I'm going to go a little bit to your previous proposal that we throw the ball at the Ministry of Finance, isn't that right. From 16 October the fire to date has not gone through two months, and in these two months we moved immediately and at a terrible speed, because in two months the studies were announced, the studies were completed and the ministerial decision has already left my office. So before Christmas, before the Ministry closes for these few days, it will not have, in two and a half months, been announced and studied and the studies will have been approved. So I'm not evading at all, Mr. Giannoulis. In the second part, which we too share is crucial, indeed, what happens when the parents of these children, the relatives of these children leave, let me tell you that yesterday I had in my office all the new administrations of the welfare centres throughout the region. What we have done, besides meeting each other and thanking them for their offer to begin with this responsibility, is to highlight the directions that we want to give as a ministry. From the first directions are dehabilitation and independent living. And there, not to speak in theoretical terms and terms, if you want, of international literature, what we need to do - and they were in the first directions - are roofs of supported living and roofs of semi-autonomous living, where our Ministry's priority is to get children out of the foundations or children instead of entering institutions, can enter roofs. What do you mean? Much smaller structures, which simulate the family environment or the environment of a house, in which I think you and we are also in agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u141	Just as long as there's a staff. That is why I say that at the same time there are no people to support these structures.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-eight students and students and three educational sessions from the 1st General School of Kallitheas. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I have to tell you, guys, that today we have parliamentary control. Don't worry about the room being empty. We have no question of a bill in plenary. It is a process that Members ask the relevant ministers on various issues of topicality and, of course, the Members are here, who are asking questions and the Ministers who are answering. It does not mean that Parliament always has this picture. Today only the interested ones come. If you were here yesterday, the Chamber was buried because we had a plenary. That's why. We are now entering the debate on the next four questions, to which the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will reply, Mr Yiannis Vroutz. The first is the fifth under number 300/9-12-2019 topical question by the First Vice-President of Parliament and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Accommodation for youth employment - prolongation programme No. 11/2018". Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u143	Thank you. I should like to thank Mr Vardakis warmly for giving me his position on the question. Minister, I will be very briefly clean. I think that even though you are brief and clear in what you are about to say, the families of the five and a half thousand young people, from twenty-two to twenty-nine years old today, will receive the message that the work for these people, the scientists, will continue, not only to continue their work, but also to help the Greek public and specific services, which the Greek citizen needs very much. I don't want to tell you any more. I want to tell you something. Today this question is asked not only by children, by the five and a half thousand young scientists, by their families, but also by their colleagues in all services, because I believe that the training they have, if the programme goes on, will help them very much. I want to raise two points. The specific programme was extended accordingly in the field of health. I am presenting the document and, of course, I am making a request from the Directorate-General of your Ministry for the renewal of workers' contracts in the Single Social Security Agency. [[At this point the Vice-President of Parliament submits for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] There are preconditions, Minister, and everyone expects you when you have taken initiatives and you have rightly done so. It is another thing if we disagree that we can find better ways to return from abroad our brothers, who have left the economic crisis, which we must see. At the same time, for these people, we need to find a solution and an answer. We're waiting for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u144	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u145	I thank Mr Constantinople for two reasons: the first is the decency he tabled his question, the right way, and the second is for this question, which was answered about last Thursday, when, in time, I was asked about the employment ministry's policies in this House again. I would therefore like to be with you and with the Members who are completely honest with the same straightforwardness and honesty, as I always try to be in my public positions and in the political function of the Ministry of Labour. The policies that we believe, Mr Constantopoulos, - and that is what deepens your question - I think that they do not condone the issue of pity in the face of three and a half thousand cases, indeed very worthy of university education officials who have entered the public sector. If these children are merciful, I believe that your question - because you are a party with other features, you are not SYRIZA, the demagogic and populist party of SYRIZA - is how we will deal with unemployment and how, above all, we will deal with the problem of young scientists in our country and the Brain Drain. So I answer, Mr Constantinople. I would really like to confirm that these children were very useful and, indeed, they helped. However, it cannot be a political solution to the problem of unemployment or to the public in such a way. In our country - thank God! - and at the initiative of your party many decades ago we forged the AAP, a plausible, legitimate way undeniable. No one can question that this should be the attitude of any political leadership, which respects itself, respects its citizens, respects the country's Charter in the Constitution. So, Mr Constantinople, I have to say that for us the policies on which we have to deal with the unemployment issue are where the private sector really is facing: the development, where wealth is created, of businesses in Greece, of investment. In this question I would like to tell you that this programme will be repeated at a later date and new scientists with very high qualifications will again find themselves to deal with this situation, which exists and put them within the public administration. But there will be a new programme, because in addition to the three and a half thousand, which are very worthwhile executives, there are tens of thousands of other members outside who want to have the same opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u146	Mr. Vice President, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we have to make it clear that there is no question. The rules must be uniform for everyone, and there is no question of pity for the five and a half thousand. As you said, pity is not just for the five hundred people who want to bring from abroad, it is for the whole of the people and we want to make a pilot project. Secondly, I want to understand what you said today. It was very clean, and I want people to understand it too. You said that there would be a new programme in which five and a half thousand scientists - those who are many others - will be able to submit their documents to go to these services. That's what I get. We are talking about a new programme, which will deal with these positions and which will be from the outset. We did indeed, if I remember correctly, that there would be a new procedure. If the Ministry makes a new procedure, which will cover these posts directly with the model, I understand that, as there is no prolongation of social benefits, there must be a new notice, if I understand it correctly, which is a first positive solution, that the Ministry will soon declare five and a half thousand jobs for these institutions. Therefore, citizens must first know that this gap will be covered. If that's what you mean, I'm glad. If you mean making permanent jobs, I see it a little difficult - to be honest with each other - to get out of five and a half thousand jobs. But I am keeping you and I would like you to clarify that, Mr Minister, because it is very important, if that is the case, that you will draw up a new programme on this process. With regard to the rest of the private sector, many times - and you know at a personal level, but also at a public level - I have told you that efforts are being made, which really support the small and medium-sized businessman and not the big businessman - because some people do not understand - which helps in this direction with more jobs in the private sector. But please, because we are here on this issue, answer me: is it true that a new programme will come out? What time will it come to expect these young people to submit their application? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u148	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u149	Mr Constantinople, I am pleased now that your reinstatement seems to have an absolute convergence and we agree. We also agree on concepts and attitudes, and that is not bad. I am very pleased that your party, which you represent in your question, is in agreement with the socially beneficial work you mention as an example and that you should...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u150	But we made it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u151	Together we made it, Mr. Constantinople, in 2013. We made it together.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u152	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u153	It was broken for the first time in 2019, uniquely, with SYRIZA. I am glad, therefore, that we agree that these programmes, which are symptomatic and enter some time-frame and have a regular repetition time, have an ending horizon. We cannot give them a duration for reasons that we all know about. So I repeat. You raised the issue of social work. Of course, there will be a new programme. It is already planned by the Services of the Ministry of Labour - the favourite Secretary-General, which is also responsible for the implementation of social benefits - combined with the OAED, which will be announced very soon. Of course, there will also be a new programme. The time horizon cannot be defined - I want to be very precise in what I am saying - but soon. A programme, which will have similar characteristics for highly qualified scientists, to complement the needs of public bodies. One addition, because it mentioned the issue of Brain Drain, the initiative taken by the Ministry of Labour under the name, Mr President, "Greece again". Because there have also been some comments from Mr SYRIZA's colleague just now, I would like to repeat this: in no case and in any case the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour and the officials of the Ministry of Labour, who have created this programme, we do not believe that it will overturn and solve the problem of Brain Drain. However, it is an initiative that has only a very important, symbolic order: We want to send symbolically, with this initiative, the message that Greece can become a re-engineering magnet for children with high training scientific and international experience from twenty-eight to forty years of age, return to Greece, but with a difference: This programme, which is only for five hundred people, will be addressed to the private sector - we do not go to the public sector - and where redundancies are being hired, and anyone who takes these five hundred, young children will have to keep them for another year, so that we can send a message, which is symbolic, that Greece can again keep its highly qualified scientists and even turn them back. We do not believe that this alone will solve our country's problem, but symbolically we want to do this and take this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u154	And I thank the Secretary-General and the Vice-President-President-in-Office. We are now entering the debate of the second under number 301/9-12-2019 on the question of whether and when the loans voted on by the Labour Housing Organization (OEC) will be implemented by capital funds with interest subsidy. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, we will be useful in society if we learn to be honest with each other by raising major questions with questions and getting real answers. I have not heard any substantial response to all the topical questions that have been raised since this morning. I would not like to compare myself with evidence if I knew that the Minister would actually answer me, but I wanted to read a message from the hundreds of messages, Minister, that I took in the last two days, when the timely question I tabled was published. I'll read you one. ‘Please show the issue of the inequality between borrowers from own funds to those sent to the banks. They have all paid contributions and are treated differently." She'll be breathing for a lot of families. But I have a duty - to record in the Minutes - to mention two three elements. The previous government had touched this issue on the regulation of OEC loans. As regards loans received directly from the OEC by the Bank, the Commission has decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 93(2) of the EC Treaty in respect of loans granted directly by the Bank. No. No. 522463173/2018 Ministerial Decision, signed by the then Minister, Mrs Ahtsoglou, was given to borrowers who received loans from OEC own funds to regulate on favourable terms their loans, beneficial provisions that they gave, Minister, great breath to borrowers, who were literally in the air. And to remind you that all these dwellings were first residences. Apart from this category of borrowers of the OEC, however, there is another major category that, while the approval of their loan took it from the agency, the former OEC, then referred to them for the loan to be granted to banks that are members of it. By Article 25(1) of Law 4618/2018, the previous government introduced a provision concerning the adjustment of the OEM’s loans at a subsidised interest rate. They were, as you know, Minister, elections. You have received - I believe - a ready draft law. You have not proceeded with the issue of the required CRLs, which will determine the criteria for inclusion in the subsidy, the subsidy rates, etc. - not to repeat them. In view of the fact that, Minister, the problem of borrowers through OEC, at a subsidised rate, concerns tens of thousands of families, which are currently in the air, because the implementation of the previous law is expected to benefit borrowers who are still in debt and who in the event of inability to repay their loans to anonymous banking companies will face the risk of losing their residence - and if I am not mistaken, you are currently bringing a special bill on red loans in the urgency procedure - I ask you: why has the required CSM not been issued until now? Do you intend to publish it and what is the timetable for the publication? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u156	Minister, you have three minutes on your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. I have to start with a comment on the first point made by the honourable Member of SYRIZA, Mr Vardakis, that the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour as a whole was here today - my Deputy Minister, Mr Metarakis and Mrs Michailidou, and I personally, now responsible for answering the current questions - did not give any reliable answers or did not cover you with the previous questions. That's none of your business, Mr. Bardakis. Every response is evaluated by those who ask the question. But the most essential thing, Mr Vardakis, to which you had to make self-criticism, is that today you see the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour, being in Parliament and exercising its parliamentary duties, coming to answer current questions! And not just the Ministry of Labour! All ministries, ladies and gentlemen! All ministries! It was Mr. Theodorikos before and all the ministers that went through and we come here every time that there are timely questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u158	It's your obligation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u159	And you know why I'm saying that? Because what we do today is self-evident. Mr President, I address you to the Chair. We're doing the self-evident thing! We are honouring and respecting the parliamentary procedure. We respect Parliament's Rules of Procedure! Do you know, Mr President, that in relevant questions - written and timely - these benches on SYRIZA were empty, that we were ignored by SYRIZA and that the SYRIZA ministers did not come to answer? And today we have Mr Vardakis telling us that, and well, our answers are not convincing to their questions. A little self-criticism is needed, I believe, because this government, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, the New Democracy - you can criticise anything, in policies - at the level of Parliament, also respects parliamentary institutions. We are here, Mr Vardakis, to respond to the possibility of any question being asked. Now, for your question, because there is going to be a second-guess that I am going to be more specific, I want to answer you with a question I want to ask myself. I wanted to ask you, Mr Bardakis, this: Your question obviously hides the importance of Law 4618/2018, how important it is. So I ask you two questions and I would like you to answer me: Since this law is so important, why have you brought him a month before the elections and left four and a half years instantly? Secondly, since Mrs Ahtsoglou, my predecessor, has signed a ministerial decision - question to you - why has she not signed the second ministerial decision to which you refer and ask me and the Ministry of Labour to sign it? I asked two questions, I'll be placed in total in my denture. I want the answers from you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u160	Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u161	Mr President, I will need a minute. It is unprecedented that the Minister should ask the Member and indeed when the Member tables a timely question. I would like to say to the Minister - I said before - that I want a clear answer because I have not come here today for both communications and to raise a point. It's just a matter that burns thousands of families in Greece. We have solved it in part. I told the Minister, I don't know why he didn't get it. We had brought law, legislated for the loans, the exclusive loans of the OEC, we had the other procedure left. The Minister knows very well - but he hides it - that the banks did not give us the evidence. A special committee was set up to collect the data from the banks, to provide a solution to the rest of the borrowers. Yes, indeed, Mr.4618/2018 came out, I told the Minister that elections were held, that the joint ministerial decision was not taken, and we are waiting for the Minister today - that is what we are asking the Minister - to sign tomorrow morning. Do you, Minister, do you not know that you are about six months government? Are you opposed to SYRIZA? Minister, you are six months! Here you saved Greece in forty days, in twenty-eight days did you save PPC and you can't sign a joint ministerial decision, so people can't lose their homes? For God's sake! It was no accident, Mr President - I am closing up with what I spoke about sincereness at the beginning. Do you know what people say outside? That here we are making a sterile confrontation and a policy that does not work. I just asked you if you intend to sign this decision yesterday, which are waiting for thousands of people. You brought a bill today. I don't know, I haven't studied the bill, I haven't had such bills that you have brought in to see what it says about red loans and how you will serve this whole situation of billions of euros. The previous law wants a signature! And you're coming here now to give us up for empty benches? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let me say a word, Mr President. Mr. Brutsi, have you tabled timely questions? And because I was in the supervisory committee - it's supposed to be the supervision committees of the Ministry of Labour - I don't remember asking the Ministry of Labour and not answering it. Maybe you didn't have to. Do you have anything to tell me about this? Did you ask a question? I don't know about the other ministries, and I'm not in a position to answer you. But, especially for the Ministry of Labour, did you ask a question from the Member of the New Democracy or the Change Movement and did it not be answered by the Ministry of Labour? Mercy! Finally - I am closing and thank you, Mr President, for the tolerance - please give us an answer! I have read you a message at first, evaluate it and give us an answer - the data from the banks have been obtained - if these people can wait tomorrow morning for a solution to their serious problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u162	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u163	Let me begin again with an introductory remark on the last point raised by Mr Vardakis, if the New Democracy Members asked the Ministry of Labour - and I personally - and they were not answered because they were answered by Mr Vardakis. Reply: Unanswered questions were found in the Ministry of Labour as soon as I received, which had been answered by the services and had not been brought to the House by Mrs Ahtsoglou, my predecessor and overall by SYRIZA's leadership, the Ministry of Labour's political leadership. This is regrettable, unfortunately, for democracy and the functioning of parliamentary institutions, Mr Bardakis. SYRIZA is exposed. I would remind you of the last question of fifty-fifth Members of the New Democracy, almost all of the opposition, about the unfinished pensions, when you went out and said that there were no unfinished pensions. And you saw, I challenged you when we became government, and I asked you to ask a question to answer you. And I said: "I am not SYRIZA, we will behave differently, honoring Parliament's procedures, and we will answer you." And the Members of other parties asked, and he replied that the loose ends are over 1 million euros, what we received, not only of the main, subsidiary and one-off, but also of cases. This is therefore also the picture of outstanding pensions and cases, but in general of SYRIZA's behaviour towards respect for institutions and respect for parliamentary procedures. Hundreds of questions unanswered, Mr SYRIZA's colleague, by SYRIZA on his government, which is not now and we are here to answer the questions we have to answer, in accordance with Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, the questions which I asked to Mr Vardakis before were rhetoric were intended to answer now in my denture as follows, because I deliberately asked Mr Vardakis who did not reply. It is not customary, of course, for the Minister to ask - rightly so - but as far as rhetorical questions are concerned, you should understand that something is hidden in my questions. In fact, let's see when this big SYRIZA programme came in favour of borrowers from banks through the OEM. SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, ruled four and a half years and held in the drawer a grand relief plan for four and a half years. Four-and-a-half years, SYRIZA hides his sensitivity and suddenly on 10-6-2019, less than a month from the national elections, brings and votes for a law to show his sensitivity to these thousands! I ask: why didn't you do it for four and a half years and leave it for fifteen, twenty days before the national elections? I am replying directly, therefore, Mr Bardakis to your question: why did you deceive the world, because it was a draft law which was vague, irreversible and arbitrary, because for one part which concerned the OEC, it was of course easy to resolve through a ministerial decision, because it is the OEC's internal procedure. The other issue, however, which is a question of banking, asks the OAED to intervene with an arbitrary, sloppy legislative provision on the knee written for election, to buy people's consciences, to intervene between two parties involved, between individuals and banks. That's not easy, Mr. Bardakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u164	You're lying, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u165	That's not easy, Mr. Vardakis, you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u166	On 18-2-2018 the Ministerial Decision was signed!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u167	So today, I'm answering... All right, Mr. Bardakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u168	Mr. Comrade, please don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u169	On 18-2-2018 the first decision was signed! You're lying! So you must be ashamed of what you're saying!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u170	Mr. Vardakis, I answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u171	But, Mr President, this is where the Minister says inaccurate, the first decision was signed on 18-2-2018. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I know it's not a legitimate process and what I'm saying, but don't lie!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u172	Mr President, calm down Mr. Bardakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u173	You ask the questions, the Minister and everyone is judged! There is no tritology!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u174	Mr Vardakis, I know you are in a difficult position, because what I am recording and presenting you and your party.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u175	You're out there!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u176	You deceived a world - and the so-called "great-sensitive" against the OEC loans - you ruled four and a half years and brought it twenty days before the elections! And you brought it undisturbed and it's not an easy case. So I answer that, of course, the OAED services have come up with the problem. I am standing next to the OAED service actors who are looking to see how they will resolve this juicy thing that you have legislated on the eve of the elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u177	Thank you very much. And now we're continuing with the last two topical questions. Will the third, with No 292/3-12-2019, be discussed in the first cycle of the Member of the Boeotian Movement, Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Piraeus Bank opens its door to further redundancies of bank employees?' and the fourth under number 314/10-12-2019 topical question by the First Cycle MP of the B3 South Athens Sector of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Releases to Piraeus Bank". Both questions, in view of the fact that they are on the same subject, pursuant to Rule 131(4) of the Rules of Procedure, will be discussed at the same time, without affecting the speaking time of the participants. In other words, time will double for the Minister who will answer the two questions and normal for the two Members who will develop their questions at the same time. Here, Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the question of redundancies at Piraeus Bank itself says everything. We know the issue that has been created, since twenty-four workers are on the way at a time, in a period of recovery of the economy and in an effort to strengthen the banking sector, after restructuring, recapitalisation and other critical issues have been passed. There were never any redundancies from the banks and from the Piraeus Bank in particular. There's never been any redundancies. However, it was decided that there would be twenty-four redundancies in this bank, which triggered many issues not only for the workers, but also for their families and for the entire banking sector. They're twenty-four people on the road. There is a certain and clear agreement, the agreement between the OTOE, the management of the Bank's association and the Bank's own, which said that employment would be fully protected, that any employee participation in a corporate structure with INTRUM would be on a voluntary basis and that the collective labour agreements and the rights of workers who would be chosen to go to the other scheme would be guaranteed. This agreement between the OTO and the obligors was also submitted to the Labour Inspectorate and had to be implemented. So there was an honest agreement, a very serious agreement to find a more comprehensive solution. Unfortunately, we have a phenomenon of twenty-four redundancies. There is a procedure under way, but unfortunately after so many days there is no result. In addition to the participation in the labour dispute which takes place at the Ministry, the question is what the government says on this issue. Secondly, Minister, what is the government's plan for tomorrow to avoid subsequent moves and any other processes? Today, you are bringing to Parliament a draft law of the Ministry of Finance which refers to the guarantee scheme for credit institutions. It appears that the Greek State, the Greek State, provides a guarantee of up to EUR 12 billion, which can be increased in the future by ministerial decisions to make this guarantee procedure for the securitisations of credit institutions. Here, the Ministry could very well bring in a specific amendment laying down two inalienable conditions, the condition of reintegration and the ban on redundancies for as long as this situation is maintained. It can't be done differently. This is a grim situation and there is a disturbance in the banking sector, which you know, like all of us. We are involved in the process, we stand together and we will be with the workers wherever they need us, both inside and outside the House. But do I once again raise the topical and perhaps crucial issue of whether the government intends to take a stand on the bill currently under discussion and lay down conditions and conditions in order for the guarantee procedure to take place up to EUR 12 billion, protecting workers in the banks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u179	Here, Mr Katsotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr President. This is a well-known matter. However, allow me to begin by welcomeing the participation of the bank officials in yesterday's strike mobilisation against these plans of banks and of course the Government of New Democracy. These designs had been launched by the Sri Lankan government. These are designs that deliver borrowers to the hands of the "predators" and many workers in unemployment or subjection to the continuation of their work on worse terms of pay and work. In my prototype, I will be content with the contents of the question. But knowing the debate that took place in yesterday's tripartite meeting at the Ministry, I will say more in my dentistry about it. It is known that the bank, before reaching the redundancies, blackmailed the workers to accept their transfer to the management company “INTRUM”, i.e., which transferred red and informed loans, with the result that the employees lost their rights, moved as telephone operators to another subsidiary, transferred to the bank services very far away from their home place, and also fired voluntarily. And all this, of course, beyond and outside the regulation that has been agreed. The same methods are followed by other banks such as Alpha, National and Eurobank. In the tripartite on 5 December the Ministry of Labour supported the bank's proposals, which the workers denounce and of course have the position of the Ministry of Labour. The Government today with the HRAKLIS project - which will then be discussed in the draft law - on the resolution of banks implements precisely the SYRIZA law and the commitments to the institutions that provide that red loans will be transferred to 'cross', to management companies, to speculative funds, to free their balances and to provide new loans to large groups. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Also, by 2021, hundreds of thousands of popular residential auctions will take place, including the OEC borrowers, who have responded previously, the reduction of bank stores by about half and the reduction of bank staff by fifteen thousand more. And here your responsibilities are enormous. This policy - of the previous government, but also of the current government - puts borrowers and bankers in direct danger. Indeed, it is causing the people who, through the recapitalisations of the banks, who have paid with the three Memorandums, are threatened with a surge of redundancies and auctions and is charged with the tax exemptions of banks and management companies with the so-called'reverse tax' - which you have voted on - of their shareholders and with the reduction in the tax on dividends. So what we are asking is if you really intend, apart from the position you took yesterday in the tripartite, to take steps to cancel and prevent redundancies at Piraeus Bank and the other banks that want to follow, noting that their provocative profits are being subsidized by your policy and by the laws that have been passed to date.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u181	Here, Minister, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr President. Because the issue is particularly sensitive and is under way, I will try to be very careful in my wording. I would therefore like to put it from text in my prototype regarding the recording of events as follows: on 2-12-2019 the Piraeus Bank made twenty-four unpredictable redundancies of its employees. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs immediately responded to an OTOE request for a three-way reconciliation process in order to find an immediate solution for the fired, ensuring their jobs. Already on 5-12-2019, the first tripartite conciliation procedure took place with representatives of the administration of OTOE, the GESEU, senior representative unions, a delegation of the redundant and representatives of the Bank of Greece under the supervision of the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour through Ms. Strinakis, presenting the Secretary-General. In this first effort, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, loyal to its efforts to safeguard workers' rights and to safeguard jobs, but also as an important guardian of the effort to bring the national economy up and join a developmental path, proposed that immediate measures and provisions be taken to ensure that the employees of the bank are properly secured, in particular, for the twenty-four redundant, but also for the hundreds of fifteen workers at the disposal of the banks. Thus, it brings back, to the workers, proposals that could work defectively and dissuasively on redundancies, thus confirming the excellent agreement between OTO and Piraeus Bank, the purpose and content of which was to ensure the sectoral wages and privileges of both the voluntarily selected employees to go to “INTRUM” and those who would choose to stay in the bank, serving its needs, in accordance with the bank regulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-seven students and students and three educational attendances from the 2nd High School of Livadias. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We have to tell you guys that we now have parliamentary control. There is no plenary. That is why you do not mind the fact that there are few of those present ministers and MPs. Parliamentary control deals with topical issues relating to society and ask the relevant ministers who are obliged to answer them. The question is first asked by the Member, and the Minister answers and there are a few seconds to hear it now. This does not mean that the House is always like this. When we have legislative work, the House is full. Let us not just give you the impression that this is always the House and tomorrow when you grow up and want to be Members of Parliament not to be disappointed because that is the situation. All Members have other jobs now, deal with committees, legislative work, etc. That's why. We welcome you. Be good and have good holidays! We shall continue with the Members' seconds. The first is Mr Mulkiotis. Here you go, Mr. Mulkiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr President. I, too, welcome my fellow citizens from Boeotia, the students and escorts of the High School of Livadia and wish many years and good progress! Mr President, I am sorry, but the Minister made a simple description of what has been done on this critical question from both our side and Mr Katsotis, from Mr Katsotis, of the redundancies of the Piraeus Bank's employees. We know that from the press too. There was no need for the Minister to come to the House today. The issues here are political and political questions. The question that has been asked for us is, what action does the Ministry take and how it sees this process and what it intends to do in view of the resulting redundancies process and other banks? It's a climate of fear and terror because of the redundancies that exist. At the festivals twenty - four families are on the way. Not only the people who have been fired, but also their enthusiasm, and we are in an uncertainty that continues. It is really incomprehensible, Mr President, today - in conditions of recovery of the Greek economy and the industry, and for so many years of crisis, radical restructuring, recapitalisations and the collapse of the banks - to have redundancies. When? Today, while we haven't had so much time, things have changed a bit. There's a lot of uncertainty. The question was raised directly to the Minister, what position is the government taking? He didn't answer. The Minister simply mentioned what happened in the tripartite. Indeed, we have taken this into account and are aware of it from the meetings that we have had from the general information and from the press. It cannot and should not allow the government to allow such actions that in eras of continuous recovery of profitability are tanning the image and credibility of the industry and also of the economy in general. The redundancies, which so many attempts and sacrifices have avoided in times of crisis and rapid overthrows, are unthinkable to happen today. It is clear, I repeat, that the agreement between the association, the OTO and the bank administration, with three specific chapters that the bank did not respect. He broke the deal. And I do not hear from the Minister that he did, that the bank violated the agreement or that I condemn the bank's breach of the agreement. That is what we want from the government's side to give a message to the bank workers as a whole that this situation is going on. I repeat, Minister, and I personally address you in the way you respond and your responsibility: a major issue is being raised today. The Finance Ministry's draft law on the guarantee scheme for credit institutions is currently being discussed in plenary. In what way could the Ministry and the Government take a stand on this grim question of bank staff redundancies rather than bringing an amendment to this draft law in relation to the securitisations and putting a limit on it and saying: Stop. There will be no guarantee from the State in the process of securitisation, whether there are redundancies or that there will be no suspension for two, three, four years, and in any case the twenty-four redundancies that exist today. We're going to holidays, we're going to happy days and we're going to have families and all the banking industry in a difficult situation. I don't think you want that. But you must make a political decision. We need to understand that there is an alliance - a necessary alliance - of all workers working on the subject. We are with them and we cannot allow this process to be allowed and there is this grim situation. I would ask you, Mr President, to answer that question in particular. It's not hard. You dare and take a decision on this urgent bill that is coming today. It is historical - perhaps unique - opportunity to get the message from the entire banking sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u185	Mr Christos Katsotis from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr President. I told my prototype about the trimer that happened yesterday at the Ministry of Labour. There the bank refused to discuss the reintegration of the twenty-four redundant workers. Why is that? Because the Ministry of Labour, as the Minister said before, has as its main strategy the recovery of the economy, its further development. So his priority is to remove any obstacle that exists on this path. The obstacle is their workers and their rights. That's why the bank itself plans to fire another three hundred and fifty employees over the next period. That's what their managers say to the workers as a whole. Your responsibility is enormous, Minister, and we must make it known to the workers and the Piraeus Bank, but also to the other banks, who have delusional that change in the government can ensure their rights. We said about the fifteen thousand redundancies that plan the next period. Did you have a gun in your hands to press? We know and you know that the regulations already contain agreed arrangements. The 'agreed' I put it in introductory form because the upper hand in their formation always has it in business. However, while the Ministry of Labour has the tool to support and push effectively, it does not do so because in its policy it is - as I said - support for business plan business. In this regard, the Piraeus Bank regulation prohibits even the movement within the county and much more secures the jobs of the workers. You allow the abolition of the regulation, redundancies, the overthrow of labour rights. It is decisive that your contribution to the climate of subjugation needed to create the workers and implement the "HRAKLES" which comes next to be voted on in order to redeem the banks to the detriment of the borrowers and of course to the detriment of the workers. This is the growth you are serving. It will be paid by workers with redundancies, with their working and insurance rights reduced. This was also the tax bill that was passed the day before yesterday. What were you talking about? That the reduction in taxation will bring new jobs and well paid jobs. What is it here? Although the deferred tax is not paid by the banks. They offset the profits they had and fired the workers. And of course they do with your support, your tolerance. Minister, the responsibilities are enormous, as we have said before, and the workers must here see and draw conclusions. And not to forget that those who serve business groups are the ones standing up against their rights and their lives, and that seems clear. You have a strategy, as you said - you have clearly said - that the economy should be brought up on the backs of workers and the people. They paid for the crisis, to pay for growth. And they have a one-way race, no waiting, no tolerance to this policy that you practice, and it fills them with dead ends.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u187	Minister, you have six minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u188	Thank you very much, Mr President. I want to start with two introductory remarks. The first point is that I agree with Mr Katsotis even though we are far from ideological in many respects. Mr Katsotis, I agree - and I say this repeatedly - that the private sector is not an angelic man. Private companies are divided into two categories: Those who respect employment rights, pay their taxes, pay the insurance contributions to the other category, which shows an abusive and unacceptable behaviour, not now but over time. That is why I want to repeat something because we are also ahead of holidays, that, as far as the Ministry of Labour and its audit mechanisms are concerned, whether they are the OLAF or the OLAF, we will be at the forefront of combating arbitrary and abusive behaviour. I would like to send a message to the whole market that is currently trying to survive in the difficult but encouraging and optimistic new economic climate, that they must also be fully consistent with workers and gift payments and wage payments, and that they must pay insurance contributions and taxes. Otherwise we will be very strict, as we have proved. To assist this effort, I would like to inform you that a fleet of new cars is already coming to strengthen the APRC, the Labour Inspectorate, and at the same time a law that we passed yesterday in the Multi-Project with the amendments we are encouraging with a special allowance the auditors of the Labour Inspectorate, on the basis of their checks and the fines they impose. I would also remind you that the recent legislative initiative of the Ministry of Labour has tightened up the context of abuses and, for the first time in Greece, we have created an electronic register of breaches of undertakings, which will very soon be another weapon in the hands of the control mechanisms. The second thing I have to say, Mr Mulkiotis, is that I respect and disguise your sensitivity. I do not know if the party you represent moves so far that you believe that redundancies in the private sector should be banned by law. This is beyond SYRIZA and the KIC still. I do not think that the Change Movement can have such a perception, because the Ministry of Labour not now, but before, which ruled PASOK, can do nothing more than intervening in reconciliation and trying to normalize situations and bring the two parties, workers and employers to a balance. That's our job. There is no ban on redundancies in our country's labour law. However, I am actually going to the point, because what I said is general and I do not want to involve it in this, and it answers to your position that redundancies should be banned in the country. That was the most extreme place I've ever heard. So I'm actually in the way of this. Already on 5-12-2019, as I said before, the Ministry of Labour was the first reconciliation effort. You know, we have the same sensitivities in the Ministry of Labour and the Government for workers and those who have been made redundant, but we are trying to deal with it. So, on 5-12-2019, under the supervision of the General Secretariat of the Ministry of Labour, this first three-way reconciliation effort has been made. Secondly, yesterday 11-12-2019 took place the second tripartite conciliation procedure, where the bank proposed and opened the alternative proposals that were not in force today, but only for the hundreds of fifteen employees at the bank's disposal - so there is a first positive step in the work of the Ministry of Labour - but not for the twenty-four fired. And that is what you do not know, so I inform the House. But we don't deposit the weapons. For this reason, the Ministry of Labour also takes a new initiative. It will repeat its attempt to find an immediate solution for the twenty-four fired next Thursday 19-12-2019. From this point of view, and from what I have said now and from my prology, it is unreservedly clear that the Ministry of Labour and the Government have taken immediate measures and taken early initiatives and continue to do everything possible in the legal context, firstly, to ensure sustainable jobs for all workers, secondly, to ensure working peace through the tripartite fertile social dialogue, thirdly, to prevent redundancies and to restore the risk of social tensions. And fourthly, not to jeopardise, on the one hand, the climate of confidence that has to be found in the banking sector as a pillar of the national economy and, on the other, the plan to reorganise the banking system from red borrowing, which is the means of dynamic relaunching the economy with a growth mark. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, too, Minister. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being toured in the report 'The Parliament of the Greeks'. The one-way stations of almost two hundred years old", thirty students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st High School of Ano Liosia. The House welcomes you. Let us tell you, children, that today we have parliamentary control, so you see that the benches are empty. Today's sitting is the only Members who ask timely questions to the ministers. They are questions about the daily lives of citizens and society in general, and that is why you do not see too many people. This does not mean that our MPs and ministers are not here every day, it is simply the process of legislative work. We will shortly be entering the process of legislating, legislating, drafting laws, where Members will be much more. I say this so that it does not disappoint you that Members do not come. On the contrary, they have been working very hard, they have been working on committees and, of course, they are helping the parliamentary work of our country, which is why in Greece for many years we have also been having a good piece of legislation in the European area. In a short time, in five minutes, the legislative work will begin. If you want to wait, you can sit down. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, before entering the legislative work in accordance with the supplementary agenda which has been distributed, we will be interrupted for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the whole draft law of the Ministry of Finance, 'Support programme for credit institutions'. Minister, I'm sorry, but there's the Minister, and there's three Undersecretaries. You've been notified since 12:00 the hour and you had to be here to be able to start, which wasn't happening. And I am not saying that to express some reluctance. To God. That's not our responsibility. I would remind you, however, that in the past - and I remember very well - the previous President, Mr Voutsis, has in corresponding cases made this observation. It can't wait for the legislature so long and it's not a Minister here. In any case, the request is not to repeat this. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, following the decision made by the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs, on a proposal from the relevant Minister, is being discussed in accordance with the urgency procedure, in accordance with Rule 86(4) of the Constitution and Rule 109 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. I would like to remind you that in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of this House, the debate and vote on urgent drafts is a maximum of ten hours' time. During the urgent debate, the rapporteurs and special speakers, the Minister responsible, the Prime Minister and the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups and one of their representatives are involved. Their speech is limited to half the time provided for in Rules 97 and 103 of the Rules of Procedure. I propose, in parliamentary practice, that the debate on the principle and the articles be uniform. I also propose that the list of speakers be extended and no more than three speakers should be appointed by each parliamentary group. As regards the time, now, of the speakers, I propose that the rapporteurs and special speakers have eight minutes of speaking time, the responsible Minister, ten minutes, any other ministers and State Secretarys, five minutes, the Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, as well as the President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, ten minutes, the Presidents of the other parliamentary groups eight minutes, the Parliamentary Representatives, ten minutes, set up by the parties five minutes. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u191	The House has agreed. The rapporteur for the New Democracy, Mr Charalampos Papadimitriou, has been speaking for eight minutes. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u192	Thank you very much, Mr President. I was expecting something better than a conspiracy, but in any case, eight minutes is eight minutes. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let's start with what the HERAKLIS project is. HERAKLIS is a government's plan, I would say, and not just, to restructure the banking system. It aims at a drastic reduction in non-performing exposures, known to all of us as red loans, which, unfortunately, have Greek banks in a scary amount. No banking system can function properly, i.e. contribute to growth when old loans are not served. The reason is very simple to us economists, but I think everyone, because the portion of the loan that is paid when a loan is paid out, for example, is this piece that allows banks to resold loans, along with some other functions. He serves the citizen and entrepreneurship. Why? Firstly, it is a prerequisite for them to be exempted either by means of a new regulation or by the settlement of the balance, or in a few - very few - it is true - cases and by remission of debts where there is no difference between those who remain blocked. Secondly, the impact of HARAKEL will be decisive in the banks' ability to resold loans and to carry out their real work. HERAKLIS will also, combined with other measures, influence the measures already taken, take and the government will take in the next few months. On this occasion, I call on those who have reason to rush to take advantage of the new opportunity window to protect the first residence recently given. The same applies to those who need a subsidy for the instalments of their housing loan, a measure taken by the previous government and continued by the current government. Obviously all other tax reduction measures help to tackle the dynamics of red loans. Unfortunately, the opposition today, knowing very well the kind and size of the problem that was facing our banking system and having been informed multiplely and responsively about its anti-development effect, chose to leave it unresolved. But why did the previous government leave the problem unresolved? For two reasons. He couldn't be one, he didn't want to be the other. The previous government did not gain market confidence, which means that the borrowing cost of the state remained high until the end, until the elections. HERAKLIS succeeds at this point too. The high-security bonds, which the banks will issue according to the plan, will have a higher degree of credibility due to the state guarantee currently made by better positions. I am, however, convinced that the previous government did not want to solve the 70 billion problem for the voters to go to the elections with their hands tied up. Repeat, that is, otherwise, but with the same ideological and political insistence, what had happened, what had done, before 2015, when he had encouraged his practices “I do not pay”. Furthermore, we do not forget the disastrous recapitalisation, when tens of billions of dollars had already been lost, which the taxpayers had borrowed to save the banking system. The bill that we have before us today is a part of the government's coherent policy to achieve growth, a market-based bill, which will help banks to regain their real role in the economy, namely the financing of households and businesses. But what isn't HERAKLIS? HERAKLIS does not charge the taxpayer. It has no impact on the debt or on the liquidity pillow. It is important that the State receives about 200 million per year as a commission on guarantees which it will make available to systemic banks and banks in general. The state will not provide support to the banks and will only guarantee the highest, the'senior', as we say, a part of the securities, which will be the most secure and rated by an international and recognised rating house. What should the citizen know about the "HERAKI"? It is important to stress that the legal position of the borrower, whose loan will be implemented through the HARAKEL, will remain the same after the project has been implemented. In particular, the legal framework governing the collection of loans remains the same for banks and managers, however, that will take over red loans with the HERAKLIS project. The guidelines of the Bank of Greece and the existing legislation, as well as the additional provisions that we have passed and later will be supplemented for the protection of borrowers, are clear and their compliance will continue with commitment. In short, HERAKLIS makes it easier for the conditions, but it does not change, it is not what we say'sold in funds' or that the funds will have to do with the people who have the issues. The aim of the HERAKLIS project is not to help the banks against the citizen, but to help the citizens through the banks. Furthermore, the citizen will gain from the determination with which the new government gradually liberates the productive forces of society in order to create new and well paid jobs and, of course, business opportunities, through which the former is ensured. However, HARAKLIS and the citizens and businesses, who do not have blocked loans, will benefit, but will not be able to borrow for the mobile market, in a situation of recovery of the building industry and of new interest in it, or to expand and strengthen their businesses. With the changes made to the bank portfolio structure and the technical arrangements provided for in the draft law we are considering, loans will be grouped and securitised, which will be created in three packages, as you already know, of bonds and with which this consolidation is to be carried out for which I am speaking to you. Do the banks need to be recapitalised? Does the “HRAKLE” hide a recapitalisation? No, the Greek banks, after three recapitalisations, are in a process of resolution. It is recalled that the'stress test' - the last one was in May 2018 - and in an alleged economic recession scenario they were found not to be affected by their capital. We want the next test, which will take place in spring, to be a success. All forecasts show the growth of the Greek economy and the securitisation of the "HRAKLE" will help in this direction. Who supports the “HRAKLE”? The European Commission, the European Central Bank, the Bank of Greece, the Financial Stability Fund, the European Banking Authority, all international investment houses, global credit rating companies, current private shareholders of banks and the banks themselves, which already have ready plans for joining the ‘HRAKLE’. The benefits of the banks are that they keep in their portfolio the good part of the loans and that makes it possible, while being exempt from the bad loans, in a way that allows them, as I have explained earlier, to develop the new banking market. These are the reasons for making me point out that you should pay attention to the new brought by HARAKLIS. The HERAKLIS project is based on the successful Italian securitisation plan, which had good results and gained market confidence. The difference is that Greece has not yet won the investment grade, such as Italy when it implemented the project. However, because of the quality of the loans covering the "top" part of the securities, the good part we say, and the technical specifications that have been put into the "HRAKLIS" project, repayment will be made in a way that goes beyond the obstacles Italy had when it implemented the project. The main element, however, is that while Italy has had a credit rating that is satisfactory, compared to our own, we achieve the same result, without even getting the investment, the highest rating. In other words, the HERAKLIS project is the best solution to the current circumstances and I believe that the whole of the House, following last night's climate - I also mean the victory of the excellent group, which is not my own - by using this climate, must support it. Thank you for supporting it, and I would like to note that it is clear that the responsibility for the good implementation of the project remains with the government, which has to complement, through new measures and by strict monitoring of the banks, the liberalisation of borrowers from the unscrupulous issue of problem loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u193	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that diplomatic theories are attending the meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, and toured to the exhibition by the Chamber of the "Venizelos" seven members from the delegation of the Local People's Congress of Shanxi Province, China. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are now continuing with the rapporteur of SYRIZA, Mr Mamulakis Charalambos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, unserved loans are the biggest problem in the Greek economy. There is a consensus in this House. The successful exit from the financial supervision programmes will not bring the expected benefits for the Greek economy if this wound of the Greek banking system is not addressed. However, this problem cannot be dealt with in terms of social cohesion and social peace. It cannot be addressed unless the right to residence has first been guaranteed and the position of borrowers in relation to banking institutions has not been strengthened. Ladies and gentlemen, the plan of the reappearing government for the management of red loans was multidimensional and included many different tools. This was also reflected in the previous government's development strategy, so that all interested parties - borrowers, banks and investors - are aware of the forthcoming changes in the institutional framework and should be guided by their economic behaviour. Of course, like you in this bill, we too, part of the solution that we promoted, concerned with facilitating banks. However, the draft law, which was tabled yesterday by the government, has started to be negotiated between Greece and the European institutions since the previous February. On the other hand, this is reflected in the European Commission's decision, which the draft law itself claims. At the same time, however, the top priority for SYRIZA was always the protection of the first home for the highly indebted households who suffered the burdens of the monuments and the consequences of the economic crisis and, at the same time, our priorities included mediation between the Greek banks and the Greek small and medium-sized enterprises, in order to build those tools that would lead to the regulation of debt on a truly large scale. For all the above reasons, our plan included the revision of the Katseli Act, the out-of-court settlement mechanism, the modernisation of the bankruptcy code, the law on first residence and much more. Part of our project has been the first day and perspective of creating a 'bad bank'. We had submitted this proposal on several occasions to the representatives of the creditors, until they finally consented to the project on an Asset Protection Scheme, the well-known ARS, which was officially sent last February. The adoption in principle of the European institutions would not have been possible if the third programme had not been successfully completed. At the same time, this approval would not have been possible if public finances had not been cleaned up and those liquidity tanks were not created that would have enabled us safely to deviate our country's borrowing interest rates. Contrary to what the Secretary of State said in committee, the project "HRAKLIS" does not stand on the star of Mr. Mitsotakis, but on the "cash buffer" of the government of Alexis Tsipras. However, the SYRIZA plan would operate in an environment of extensive loan arrangements for small and medium-sized enterprises through the support of the extrajudicial debt regulation mechanism, which you have described as dead since the day you took over. At the same time, SYRIZA's plan would be activated in an environment of protection of the first residence of vulnerable households. What does the government do with this draft law? First of all, the HRAKLIS project is an attempt to sell bonds that the banks will issue from the non-performing loans requirements with the guarantee of the Greek State. That's as good as it is. The transaction comprises four parts: first, banks, which are securitising their requirements, second, the special purpose vehicle in which the securities are transferred, third, investors intending to put their money into these products and finally, independent claim management companies, the servicers, who will be invited to generate additional revenue through liquidation, legal disputes, auctions, arrangements or any other strategy they choose to pay for both the public and the investors. The Greek State's guarantee is put in operation subject to the sale of 50% plus 1% of the low collateral bonds. The Greek State in the above scheme is indeed partially guaranteed, as its guarantee relates to low risk loans, is a first-time debtor and retains the right under conditions to judge the services as discounts. It is clear from the above that both the services and the banks and investors will not be able to enjoy the privileges of this programme unless they intensify their actions against borrowers. The draft, according to the rapporteur for Co-operation in committee, will begin to produce results in six months from now, that is to say, when protection of first residence expires. After all, the State Secretary told us that protection is guaranteed by the Code of Conduct alone. The universal abolition of the protection of first residence has been agreed with the Enhanced Stress Surveilance Report. The government's plan will be put into practice while thirty-five thousand requests from small and medium-sized enterprises in the non-judicial compromise law, whose loans will obviously be for securitisation. One could also refer to individual issues that grow our suspicion, such as, for example, the draft law which provides for the use of up to EUR 12 billion. The difference from EUR 9 billion in the original proposal is, in my view, that the government is intended to do no other tool to manage claims against the indebted enterprises, rather than just securitisation. Also, the ability of the Minister of Finance to increase unilaterally this amount raises a huge issue of transparency and will be a permanent source of precariousness for public finances. It is up to foreigners, and not the Greek legislator's will, that the project will not have any potential financial implications. That is what the Minister of State answered to the committee in this regard. But all the remarks about the individual articles and malices of the law are pale in front of the general picture. And the general picture is that of the absence of an integrated plan for the management of red loans. The general picture is that of the wide-ranging consultation on the draft law, a matter which, in this case, is not just legalism or a pluralism, it is the anti-democratic government's approach to ensure that we do not hear a single representative of the millions of our country's borrowers in this Chamber. The general picture is the absence of any obligation on the part of the banks to allocate their future funds to productive directions. The great picture is this completely antisocial profile of the government, which completely ignores the fact that the objective of today's draft law is not about the risk management companies, the "Risk Association Units" of banks and credit advisors, but about the homes of our fellow citizens. The great picture is a great and absolute hypocrisy and a complete overthrow on the part of the government, with regard to the social consequences of the activation of such a powerful tool in an environment of zero protection of the first place. For these reasons, we invite you all to vote against this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u195	We thank the honourable Member, especially for keeping time. The special speaker from the Change Movement is now being asked to take the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u196	Ladies and gentlemen, at a time when a number of things are being heard on the issue of red loans and the citizens do not understand what the reality is, the government decided to bring in violation of the rules of parliament good law, in accordance with the urgency procedure, this bill, because, as the Minister said yesterday, any delay would not be in the interest of the banking system. However, this is a project which has been approved by the Directorate-General for Competition of the Commission for Competition for two months, without anyone knowing what the government has consulted. The reality is that this “HRAKLIS” only concerns banks and not borrowers, since some of the red loans will leave the banks’ balance sheets, but they will continue to burden households and businesses. For borrowers very simply, there is no "HARAKLIS" to save them, and why the creditors of the banking system know that securitisations mean less regulation. You have, of course, in recent days, legislated to extend the protection of first residence until the end of April through the platform of Law 4605, which the previous government of SYRIZA had adopted, but which, of course, failed in practice, as did the extrajudicial compromise. This seems clear after the 20th week of implementation of this platform has applied for thirty-five thousand six hundred users and fifty regulations have been made. After April you hand over the borrowers to the mercy of the funds. Over two hundred and fifty thousand properties correspond to non-performing loans and will go to funds through securitisations. We, of course, voted for this extension, which we believe is just an aspirin. But that is precisely why we tabled today the amendment we tabled twenty days ago to protect the first residence with extension of PASOK for another year and, of course, to allow for the purchase of loans from borrowers before they end up in the funds, which has been done successfully in Cyprus. Of course, the banks refuse to adopt it. Since 2017 we have tabled concrete proposals for both housing and business loans, which had been discussed and launched, we would not be in the deadlock trying to circumvent this bill. We have proposed the establishment of a National Energy Banks Management Agency involving both public and private individuals, a solution that has already been implemented in other European countries and provides a high level of protection and efficiency in all the parties involved, namely borrowers, banks and businesses. It is a solution that prevents mass asset liquidation, protects the Greekness of businesses, while giving problematic, but viable businesses the opportunity to develop. Ladies and gentlemen, there are data on the problems facing the banking system in our country. I referred yesterday to the committee on uncontrolled credit expansion, which is largely responsible for the range of red loans with no responsibility even for those who had the supervisory role, an extension that was made, was based on the logic of securitisations and then all loans. In order to avoid the collapse of the banking system, we have led to two recapitalisations between 2010 and 2014 with the State gaining majority packages in systemic banks, which could actually proceed to a realistic initiative for the management of red loans, given that the conditions were in place. Unfortunately, the period of the first half of 2015 was destructive and canceled that prospect. Red loans amounted to 45% of the total loans, and the country dragged into a third recapitalisation on burdensome terms, since banks passed to foreign funds instead of just 5.5 billion euros. There are currently 75 billion non-performing loans in the banks' balance sheets. 42.7 of these are business loans with 65% of these business loans for small business and freelance professionals. And even in the non-performing loans are 67% based on the Bank of Greece's latest report. Greece currently has the highest rate of non-performing loans in the Eurozone at 43.6%, with the aim of reaching the end of the year at 35%, when the European average is around 3%. This means, then, that even if the ambitious objective of the bill we are discussing is still being achieved at 20%, there is still a long way to go. Ladies and gentlemen, another problem which is also open - the Minister knows it - is loans, which relate to cooperative banks, loans which the borrowers are obliged to repay in eight years, which ends in 2021-2022, when the systemic banks are granted a period of almost twenty years, which is a different treatment and practice of injustice, and I think it should be, Minister, that I know the subject - because many of these loans will probably be in the part that will be transferred. But, ultimately, what is the plan 'ERAKLIS' tabled by the government and how does it respond to all of this? It is simply the conversion of part of the red loans into government bonds, with the State taking over the compensation of the money lost by the process of recovering the loans, without any study of the impact of this project on Greek entrepreneurship and the first housing of the citizens to be transferred. How sure that the implementation of this plan will finally enable banks to finance the economy and growth? What about the remaining EUR 40 billion of red loans that will still remain in the bank portfolio? And how safe are the assurances given on the capital adequacy of the banks, when 60% of their capital is based on the deferred tax, when the profitability of the banks today largely relies on the excessive and exaggerated charges paid by the citizens and for which, unfortunately, the government is still keeping a fish silence? The amount of guarantees from the original provision of EUR 9 billion increased to EUR 12 billion for the next sixteen months, of course, following bank pressure, while the outstanding guaranteed balance for 2019, according to the budget figures, is still EUR 9.95 billion. At the same time, the bill provides that by means of a simple ministerial decision the form of guarantees may be extended beyond eighteen months, but guarantees may also be increased. Why is the public even allowed to buy bonds, even of high priority, which it guarantees? Why is the operator’s remuneration requirements from the claim management contract and interest payment requirements from any loan or credit contracts prior to the Greek State’s requirements for the payment of the guarantee provided? Ladies and gentlemen, it would be a good thing if the 'ERAKLIS' project were to have led to the resolution of the problem of red loans, but at the same time also to create the conditions for banks to be able to finance the real economy. The plan, however, is unfortunately not enough, which has been unequivocally highlighted by the Bank of Greece itself. The project "HRAKLIS" is the biggest assumption that the Greek economy has not yet healed the wounds of the economic crisis. We fear that the problem of red loans will not be solved in vain and your "HRAKLIS", Minister, will expect the apples of the Estonians. Because in the battle of Hercules brought by the government, ladies and gentlemen, with the "Gyrion" not of the recent bad weather but of the malaise of the banking system, your "HRAKLIS" neither exhorts nor aims properly to protect weak borrowers and the "Gyrion" will continue to act unpunished and undisturbed. The Liberal Government of New Democracy uses the "repeal and anti-developmental" state and legislation to ensure the sustainability of the banks. Without underestimating this parameter, which is quite important, we are proposing a sustainable solution, aiming at and focusing on borrowers and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. That is why we disagree with the methodology, the hierarchy, but also the targeting of this bill and we vote against it. Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u197	I would ask that the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Synthrakis Manolis, should come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u198	Ladies and gentlemen, from the outset the Communist Party of Greece was placed negatively in this draft law at the committee meeting yesterday and is rejected as a whole. The Undersecretary clearly stated that it is a bill that investors are waiting for. They sure as hell don't expect the overdue households to. It is a bill cut and sewn to the banks' requirements to exempt them from the burdens of non-performing loans, and this can be achieved with the financial coverage of those loans that have the highest guarantee, high credit rating loans, high guarantees, which means that the vast majority will be mortgaged and this category is mortgage-provided housing loans. For this purpose, banks with indirect state funding, i.e. karibinat recapitalisation, will share a new year's EUR 12 billion bonus as state guarantees in order to then securitise and transfer to investors, funds and other problematic loans of EUR 30 billion. This indirect State funding is the so-called deferred tax, i.e. tax free in the name of improving their portfolio. In the event of a collapse of part or all of the State guarantee, the State will be called upon to replace the guarantees, which have been damaged by transferring the damage to the taxpayer's backs. That is, anyway, the working people are being called upon to save the banks. Any return on state returns in this direction is directly linked to the process of managing housing loans, non-performing housing loans. This is achieved by an even greater pressure on the highly indebted people's households to save their first residence, which is in most cases. The account will therefore be called upon to be paid by the people both by the intensity of pressures and extortion against people's households so that they do not lose their homes in the auctions and by the further pillaging of the people's income with new tax and other charges, so that the new bank's aid is broken down. This objective therefore serves the draft law. So why is the government taking urgent steps to legislate on the HERAKLIS project? Because the management of red loans is a prerequisite for the formation of banking integration. It forms part of the strategy for deepening EMU, namely the armouring of the European Union's business groups in international competition, in view of the new capitalist crisis on the horizon, burdening the burden on the people. These arrangements do not favour everyone and individuals and banks, funds and borrowers. Either you're with the high-priced households and their debt relief, or you're with the rescue of the banks. Both of them can't be! Let there be no delusion. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] It is hypocrisy of all governments - New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA, again today - over time that, while speaking about protecting the first home, they leave the highly indebted households, which are mostly unemployed, retired people, multitudes, third-party, single-parent families, people with special needs in the nails of banks and corporations leading them to impoverishment. SYRIZA, indirectly but clearly, agrees with the core of this draft law, when he says that this has resulted in a lot of trouble and a lot of negotiation by the SYRIZA government on the creation of ‘bad bank’. SYRIZA is the one who has launched the gradual lifting of the protection of first home, the intensification of auctions, electronic auctions, the licensing of the various management companies of red loans, the various funds, and the peculiarity of those fighting against auctions. So SYRIZA has already shaped the framework and the current government is developing this framework, that is to say, takes a step further with this draft law. But the people's families continue to suffer. How many of our desperate fellow citizens weren't taken to suicide? How many families didn't break up? How many borrowers don't live daily the humiliation and threats of lawyers? However, the draft law does not hit the real batters, i.e. the large business groups, which are responsible for the large volume of red loans and debts to the public sector and does not touch them, because together with the banks they design the big deals, with various investment funds through mergers, takeovers, restructurings and even bundles. In fact, the draft law photographs the great mass of workers' folk households forced on bank lending to cover housing and consumer needs, but the course has been broken by the crisis, unemployment, anti-grassroots measures, wage cuts and tax burdens. The success of "HRAKLE" is therefore the death of borrowers and the life of banks. Your death, my life! That is why we say that both cannot be combined together: and the resolution of red loans, with the aim of upgrading banks, and on the other hand, the relief of highly indebted people's households. Besides, we know the great haircuts of business loans, and similar sensitivity to a loan haircut to professionals, self-employed, poor farmers has not been and does not exist. Ladies and gentlemen, as in every bill, the government, in order to amuse and deceive popular conscience, is talking about creating new and well-paid jobs. Of course she doesn't believe it either. Because in its policy, it creates jobs worse than existing ones and is a typical example of PPC. However, a more recent example, which also relates to our debate, is the provocative attitude of the banking company with the Piraeus Bank staff redundancies pogrom, while the spitball is ready to take it other banks and get rid of the excess workforce. What is the government's attitude? Essentially, it supports the banks, while SYRIZA is acting as a worker defender when it is known that he opened Hail's hold with Law4601/2019. On this one is also the current draft law of the Government with the draft 'HRAKLIS', which leads in addition to the liberalisation of bank balances and to hundreds of thousands of public family auctions, the reduction of bank stores around half and the reduction of bank staff by fifteen thousand, when we already know that they have been reduced by forty thousand since 2010. The JRC clearly says that it is with the protection of highly indebted people's households, and for that very reason, in order to protect them, the shareholders of the banks must pay. The only realistic proposal is the proposal of the JRC, which it has sometimes tabled and which has been rejected - in fact, by all the parties - on the grounds that the economy cannot withstand at the time when they vote unresolved privileges and capital exemptions. The JRC reintroduces its proposals for immediate measures to relieve the people's borrowers from the obligation, in the direction of shifting the weight of the crisis to the banking groups, by providing for a drastic reduction in the debts to the banks, as provided for in the related proposal for a law on derecognition of interest and a substantial cut in the debts of the people's households. The JRC insists on the need for an immediate ban on auctioning the first home of an objective value of EUR 250,000, increased by EUR 50,000 for every child, and a secondary residence of an objective value of up to EUR 150,000 as a response to bank capital plans, to exploit auctions as a lever for pressure on the popular layers. The slogan "no house in the hands of a banker" is timely as ever. It therefore calls on workers to prevent the hundred thousand auctions that the government has budgeted for the next period. That is why the struggle must be escalated and the KIC forces are in front of the organisation of the popular counter-attack to ensure the popular roof of modern standards, along with the reform of cities, the creation of necessary infrastructure. The KIC forces light up racing and fighting that there is another way to safeguard the right to residence. It's the way to labour, people's power. To conclude, Mr President - let me say that we are not going to have a second-guess - in relation to a parliamentary amendment tabled by the general number 122 and a special 32 - to say that we are going to agree. After all, our party, on 26 last month, asked Mrs Lianna Kanelli a timely question to the Minister responsible on this issue, which concerns about a thousand two hundred teachers who were rejected by the special treatment tables, because of not paying the paradox. It is not the teachers' responsibility, and the government must now withdraw this decision and the candidates must not be excluded from the notice and must be counted against all the existing qualifications of the candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Vassiliardos has the floor for eight minutes from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u200	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in general terms the HERAKLIS project, which only helps banks, does not solve either their problem - as it will remain with red loans of over 20% against less than 5% of Europe, while it continues to increase around EUR 4 billion annually - neither the problem of borrowers nor the problem of our economy of course. Therefore, this is another patch that will just delay the fatality, exacerbating it. If the Europeans were to give us at least the EUR 14 billion that has been retained by the profits of Greek bonds - SNPs and ANFAs - and not only the EUR 4 billion in exchange - the first instalment of EUR 700 million - would perhaps be a solution. Furthermore, so far we have rescued the banks three times with about 44 billion euros added to the public debt. A fourth rescue, which we supported with deferred taxes of EUR 17 billion, which means that they will not pay such taxes, so we will pay them. We have lost their ownership, where our state held some more than 80% of their shares, and today we are called upon to save them once again with state guarantees of at least EUR 12 billion, which, if they fall, will again be charged with our debt. All of this to be refined, belonging to foreigners, so that they can confiscate and auction the houses of the Greeks, whom we are invading, at least as far as the first residence is concerned, since the state could save it with less than EUR 6 billion, given that the first home loans in 2015 were EUR 12 billion and the banks have been depreciated by over 50%. For all first-resident mortgages, we will mention the example of the United States from the 1930s, where the state has created an investment scheme for their management, with the final result that the citizens will not lose their homes and that taxpayers will not be charged. Why, really, don't we do the same? Why rescue them again and again? Why didn't we even let them close, like Iceland, by establishing new ones in their place, since we lost so much money anyway? Why not lose our statements that certainly do not have them in their funds? Or do we not know that their own funds are nonexistent, almost all consisting of deferred taxes and thus air? As far as the bill is concerned now, we all know that it has been discussed in secret since August, without even informing the House, and without answering the written questions that we tabled. It was presented to the European Union and apparently received its approval on 10 October 2019. But why was it not put forward immediately afterwards and came to the committee yesterday in the urgent procedure to vote today? Is it because it had to be approved by the American speculators, who the Minister of Finance visited on Monday to sell them Greece? What does the government really want to hide since it did not come up with the bill in public consultation? Does the investment public not care about it, or has it simply promised to sell it in a circle of its own funds? Didn't he, at least, want to sell the secure government guaranteed bank bonds to Greek citizens? Half-Hellenicism even here? We have mentioned the technical details in committee, asking our questions that have been almost all unanswered. On some individual topics - some, since there is not enough time - I would like to say: although you do not define the amount of red loans covered by the plan, according to reports, in the initial eighteen-month period, the reduction in red loans will be about EUR 30 billion, which accounts for around 40% of non-performing loans of EUR 75 billion, which are registered in the bank's books and are transferred to special-purpose companies. These companies will do two things: Firstly, they will issue bonds, which will be repaid by the proceeds of the loan service; and secondly, they will hire companies specialising in the management of bankruptcy and the collection of loans to collect as much as they can from red loans. These companies will propose arrangements, restructurings, loan haircuts and, of course, they will seize and auction, without any further disturbing the image, i.e. the image of the banks. How many, really, fellow citizens are going to lose their homes with this plan? We do not know, of course, but the total borrowing of red loans is about a million two hundred thousand people. This is therefore a very important part of the population. Consider the consequences in addition to the termination of the first home protection scheme and the acceleration of the auctions from 2020. Continuing to this, the HRAKLIS project is geared to the Italian Red Loan Reduction Plan, but GACS, which, unlike the Greek one, included in return and guarantees for loans with a lower solvency ratio. Moreover, the Greek specificity lies in the fact that Greece has not yet returned to an investment grade. The amount of guarantees now provided by the Greek State, as laid down in Article 6, cannot exceed EUR 12 billion. In the event of a collapse, however, the Greek State will bear the required amount. It has not been clarified, however, if there is to be a counterfactual in cash - cash collateral - so that it is certain that there will be the funds to repay these claims. Furthermore, the margins for repayment of the claims for guarantees are extremely narrow, fifty days in accordance with Article 13, too narrow for Greek data. What will happen, really, if in the next ten years our unsustainable public debt strangles the economy again? This is the real risk to buyers. Furthermore, one of the major disadvantages of the project is that the State will not own the fixed collateral. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me one more minute, Mr President. If, therefore, the loans are discounted, the state pays the obligations through the guarantees, but the properties remain in banks or special vehicles, so that they continue with the auctions and speculation. The money, in other words, is paid by the state and the properties that are guaranteed for this money remain in the banks, so that they can then sell it. A second is that the administrator is not controlled by the bank or by the State in accordance with Article 5, as is the independent supervisor. This is the sum of the amounts recoverable from reinsurance contracts and SPVs, with a floor equal to zero, with a floor equal to zero, with a floor equal to zero. There is, of course, a 30% reduction in the remuneration in Articles 3, 4 for differences of more than 20% and a replacement for the manager in Article 12. Is it enough, however, if much damage has been caused to the public? A third is that except in cases of incomplete or inadequate performance of tasks, the prices of these red loans due to external factors, for example due to the depreciation of the real estate market, could be negatively affected if the banks were to make massive liquidation of the property they would have retained in their portfolios. In such cases, the damage will be borne by the State as a guarantor rather than by the buyers or banks. The aggressive tactics of the banks may escalate, as may the auctions from next year. In conclusion, for all the above, but also for what we have analysed in committee, the HERAKLIS project is neither a solution for borrowers nor the economy, but less for banks and more for certain foreign investors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u201	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that they are attending our meeting from the top Western theory, after taking part in the educational programme "The King and the Revolution" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, thirty students and students and three teachers from the General School of Philothi. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The President of Mera25 Mr Yiannis Varoufakis has the floor as a special speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr President. You will do me a favor and give me some of the time I would have as President of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u203	Sure, Mr. Varoufakis. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, in 1938, in concluding the Munich slogan agreement, Winston Churchill said "we had the choice between dishonesty and war". We chose disgrace, and that's why we'll have a war. In 2008, 2009, the European Union had the choice between recognising bank bankruptcy and coding with the interests of bankers. They chose the codification with the interests of the bankers, which is why the banks went bankrupt. This is a historic defeat in Europe, the consequences of which we live throughout the continent. In Germany, the Netherlands today, particularly negative interest rates are doing great damage to the insurance funds, to insurance companies, and, at the same time, to the extreme right. In the countries of the South, particularly in countries such as Greece and Italy, we have the firm embrace between a bankrupt state and bankrupt banks. Prehistory before 2008 is impressive. We have foolish Franco-German banks borrowing coarse billions of dollars in the United States - in other words, a currency that even the European Central Bank could not repaid in the event of losses - and we have foolish Greek banks and the folding Greek state borrowing coarsely in euro by the foolish Franco-German banks. In other words, we here, banks and state, lend ourselves to a currency which we cannot make up for, because we no longer have our own currency. When the "LEHMAN BROTHERS" triggered the chain reaction of the collapse of the City Wall Street and, in general, of the Western financial system, we ended up with the foolish Franco-German banks that are bankrupt, first and best Deutsche Bank, to be a normal zombie, to be a neo-lived bank until now, a bank that is bank that is bankrupt with the monetary authorities. And of course we have come here with zombies from Greek banks and a bankrupt state. A combination of anti-liberalism, the mountains of taxpayers' money in favour of business - companies are also banks - which, when they have profits, are their own and when they have losses, are of the world - and of hard class hammering with continuous burden transfers from the bankrupt necrotic financial system to the shoulders of the weakest taxpayers. Socialism for bankers, while citizens are thrown into an unspeakable market arena where they can only lose. Since 2008, the European Union has made a strategic choice: when a financial system is bankrupt, there are two solutions. One is the rescue of the banks and not the bankers. This has happened in Sweden, Denmark, Finland in 1992. Banks were rescued - it is necessary - but not bankers. Nationalisation and in one year of resale, liquidation. The same in South Korea in 1998. There is also the second solution, the rescue of bankers with a permanent intubation with the state. That's Japan's model. That's where the zombie banks were discovered. The problem is in the European Union. In our wisdom we have created a European Central Bank without a state behind it and nineteen states without a central bank behind them. The Statute of the European Central Bank has thus been written. The result is a deadly hug between banks - zombies and bankrupt states. 2008 was the choice of the European Union, the choice of the Japanese model - and without even having the institutions of Japan or the skill of the Japanese central bankers - and not Scandinavia. So it starts - you remember that by those who were in government at the time - by pretending that the banks that went bankrupt did not go bankrupt. How? By giving them the right to issue IOUs of several billion euros, IOUs which were useless, why would who buy a IOU from a bankrupt? But, after coming, they would go to the Treasury, get the bail and the bogeyman of the bankrupt government, and one bankrupt guaranteed the other bankrupt. For example, 56 billion, Mr. Horsescoufs. Such IOUs of Greek banks guaranteed. All of us who have been through the Treasury, like me, know that every third week they were coming from Eurobank, from Piraeus Bank to put the seal of the bankrupt Greek State for 5 billion, 6 billion, 4 billion. 2011-2012 begins a second attempt to incorporate the zombie banks. It's the "Targeted Long - Term Refining Operations" by Mr. Draghi, TLTROs. At the same time, in our country, in order to cover the lie of not bankruptcy of the public and banks, we have the PSI which is depriving banks of 36 billion, while on the other hand the Greek taxpayer is forced by the Troika, the second memorandum of New Democracy and PASOK, to take over 41 billion to replace the 36 billion lost by the PSI bank, without doing anything about the NPLs, without doing anything about the red loans. In other words, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK, it is like getting 41 billion on behalf of the Greek citizen and throwing them into a drill, because these holes are the red loans. It was not allowed to be recapitalised, without first doing anything about red loans. Of course, this vicious circle has continued since then. Austerity created new red loans, new red loans further shrinked the banks' capitalisation, further austerity recapitalisations were needed that created new red loans. Let me remind you - especially you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, why you may have forgotten, because you say that in 2014 things were improving - that in June 2014 the International Monetary Fund said that the Greek banking system - since you had given 41 billion less than two years ago - was needed but 15 to 20 billion. Why? Because of the drills - the drill - the capitalisation you put on top, you lost it from under the red loans. In 2015, it was an excellent opportunity to restructure both public and private debt. However, the ‘wastas Gerun’, together with the consortium of SYRIZA, ensured that this private and public debt restructuring was not carried out. And we have the third Memorandum of SYRIZA, the securitisation of red loans and their sale to predator funds at 8% of nominal value. The problem is that when they were sold at this degrading price, the banks had to be recapitalisation, because banks lost 92% of their capitalisation. Dead end! The question from the beginning of the third memorandum that seemed to be deadlocked was how the political cost will be reduced by a new recapitalisation. That was the point. And the fourth Memorandum came, the fourth rescue attempt, the "HRAKLIS" project today. Will this “HRAKLIS” succeed in cleaning the “August Crown” by making it more attractive for sale this time to investors? Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, bad lies. If you had won the July elections, you would have been here and brought exactly the same draft law, because this draft law was not written by the government - Mr Papadimitriou said so very well - but he came in writing, it is a copy - paste from the final draft, in a worse version for reasons that the previous speaker said. In practice, what is happening is that they are trying to unravel 30 billion red loans by creating a classic CDO, one of the devil's tools that, according to Warren Buffet, were massive means of financial destruction. At that time, the CDOs, when Lehman BROTHERS and J.P.MORGAN were making them, were intended to mock investors. Today they don't have that objective. Today they aim to mock you, the MPs of the Greek Parliament, the Greek people. Among them they'll buy and sell these CDOs. They promise you that there will be no financial cost, that the credit card of 12 billion, which will come from the fourth memorandum - the pillow is nothing more than the loan, a fourth Memorandum - we take it, but it will not be touched. Isn't that how Mr. Papadimitriou told us? That's what he tells us. Actually, it's the same thing they said in Italy as the GAC, which is the original. Firstly, as I referred to Italy, Mr Papadimitriou, I do not know if you know - I imagine you will - but last July this programme in Italy, which is the same as what you brought us, already had the first default. Because the receipts from the titles on which this CDO was built were 25% lower, if what you bring with today's bill was the case, the credit card would have been touched. How is the disbursement going to be made? Fifty days after the delay in the revenues of the predator funds in relation to the evaluation to be carried out by the STADARD & POOR'S. Listen, listen! We brought the CDO, brought back the "STANDARD & POOR'S". The tools of the devil of 2008 bring them here to this lisverish. But, Mr Papadimitriou, I do not say what I say, even if your plan will succeed, what will happen? You're right to tell me that the first time red loans will have been sold, banks will have toast and the public will get some money. The provisions that the Greek public will receive are given to these guarantees that, if -o of the miracle! - there is no use of the credit card, the Greek State will be collected. Yeah, but you didn't mention that. Of course you only had eight minutes. I hope you'd mention it if you had twenty minutes. The percentage of public procurement is proportional to two things: first, the CDS of the Greek State and, second and more toxic, the evictions and the auctions. In other words, you have a time series of public procurement, which will be increased over time, to motivate the buyers of the CDO to press to collect the sums of the securities. Essentially what you do is enter within the motivating bill so that day after day we have acceleration of the evictions. To say it simply: Single scales, the Greek social economy will be damaged. If your plan "HRAKLIS" achieves the goals, the credit card will not be used, but evictions and auctions will create new homeless, new locks, new tax reductions, new increase in tolerance and social benefits to those who have no to live. If he fails, the credit card will be activated. Either way, once again, the damage to the banks is carried over to the backs of the citizens and the state, which cannot raise them. Once again, the country is pushing deeper into the debt colony. The following question arises: Why is this all happening? Why is the Troika, whose plan is 'HRAKLIS', retrievals the three-way disaster - CDO, CDS, 'Standard & Poor's', 'Moody's' - here in this country, at point zero, if you like, of the euro zone crisis? How did this evil arrest come about? The aim is one: to extend the large traditional public debt to private debt. What is the big paradox of public debt? At the moment, our country is becoming more and more bankrupt. We have a GDP growth rate of less than 2% and a debt growth rate of 2.55% on average. So we're sinking more into bankruptcy. However, the Greek government's bonds that are negotiating on markets are being mutilated. This is the great paradox. Do you know why this is true? It is very simple because only 15% of the debt is negotiable. What you are doing today is to produce a new negotiable debt, which is presented as private, but which has its foundations on the public. Investors are pushing you. You're right. Investors are currently sitting and looking at the clock and say: 'When will they end, pass this plan, settle it?' Nothing else. They're bet on a bubble. At the moment we have 18 trillion dollars with negative interest rates on international markets. What they see is that the FED, the Central Bank of America, the Central Bank of Japan and the European Central Bank will increase the quantitative relaxation of about USD 250 million each. They believe this wave of money on the world market will create bubble conditions. What's gonna happen? Having their profits secured by the citizens, these CDOs you are going to produce now will be calved. I have no objections that their prices will rise by 20% to 30%. You will come here to celebrate, say, "What a nice thing that happened, that we did everything." They will open champagne in the predators, the bankers who will sell not only the CDO, but also something else, the trading platforms, the data services, which are part of the oligarchy parasitic system. But before long - here we are - the recovery rate of society's squeezing, as happened in Italy last July, will be much lower than the expectations of 'Standard & Poor's'. The CDOs may not immediately lose their value, but the securities underneath, the red loans will become even more garbage than they were. And if you don't understand how this CDO can keep its value, while the title on which it is based doesn't hold it, see "NETFLIX "BIG SHORT" once again. Make a repetition to see how it is possible to become even more garbage and those who create CDOs on them to win. You promise us growth because, he says, the sale of red loans through the "HRAKLE" will increase the capitalisation of banks, which will provide liquidity on the market. Okay, are we serious? A successful sale means increasing the supply of real estate to the poorest regions of small and medium-sized enterprises. Do you think that an increase in the demand from new housing loans will balance this? No way. You will produce two Ellades, Glyfadas, Koukaki which is under the Acropolis, due to Airbnb, and the rest of the districts of Athens, Thessaloniki, Kavala, Crete. Ladies and gentlemen, Mera25 has been tabling the only proposal that is systemic and solves the problem for a long time. It's a very simple thing. We didn't think about it. It was applied in Ireland and Germany. Not the Italian model that has failed miserably. A public private debt management company, which gets the worst - even all - of red loans. What are the banks doing to close their books? They take what they have already received since 2008, the IOUs with a guarantee of the public equivalent value, the small and medium-sized borrowers pay a rent to the public private debt management company and we expect the recovery to come in two months, two years, in twenty years. And when property prices exceed the nominal value of these frozen debts, then we can tell borrowers "or you now get a new loan or sell". Ladies and gentlemen, I close by saying this: it is not that you give guarantees. The problem is to whom the guarantees are given and to what purpose. What the troika actually says to the people in this country is: Come and borrow 12 billion more, give them a guarantee to the predators, get guaranteed profit rates, throwing you out of your homes and getting them out of the hammer. And the sooner they throw you out, the greater the supplies your state will get to make them tax exemptions for the few, the privileged, the fewer, as you already do with the two tax bills you have brought. Breech had once wondered: How little does the bank's robber's crime picture in relation to the bank's founder? “HRAKLIS” would give him a new opportunity to update this stock. You are attempting to cleanse the manure of Augios not from the pure waters of Pineion, but from the toxic waste water of what we call "poor Bankingocracy". But, ladies and gentlemen, if something - and I am referring specifically to the Bureau now - goes beyond the toxicity of this bill, the increase in public debt in favour of overlapping studies, it is unprecedented: consider what we are doing today. I have never seen this happen in the Greek Parliament or in the worst years of the debt-government. Legislation of business plan private business. You're going through it as a law of the state. That's never happened before. This is a shame, ladies and gentlemen! A bill that contains complex concepts such as CDO, CDS, such as assessments by ‘Standard & Poor's’, is not allowed, all of this complexity that the financial system used before 2008 to bring the disaster to the global economy within hours of this Parliament. The Bureau should have safeguarded Parliament's authority, that is, what is left of it in the Memorandum Greece. You don't do it, Mr. President. The Bureau does not do that. We in Mera25 have a sacred obligation to do so by separating them from the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u205	The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos, has the floor. Then the Deputy Minister of Finance, George Zavvos, will take the floor. Mr. Velopoulou, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u206	Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot understand the obsession with the parties that have ruled with the names of the ancient Greeks. You've been raped on several occasions. ‘KILLEN’, ‘KIKRATS’, put ‘PRODUCT’, now put ‘HRAKLE’ in the middle. Why are you doing this? You tell me why you're doing this. Use another name. Why from the Greek language? I don't understand because everything that's happened so far has failed. And when I say they failed, they really failed. Now, as far as the HERAKLIS project is concerned, I do not want to talk about the banks and the problems that banks have. We, Mr Secretary, have proposed three specific solutions, and there are three solutions that you have never followed. And you don't need to be philosophers or experts or economists, but copy successful models from other countries. For example, the United States before 1940, with the bad bank. They did the very simple thing. They made a bad bank, and then ten - fifteen years later they got profits back. Why do you have to invent your own solutions through mind, which are all failed anyway? Because if the solutions you have proposed for years, decades, were not failed, we would not go bankrupt. Because, to tell him, the trials in here, the moral perpetrators of bankruptcy are the gentlemen on the right, and the gentlemen here in front, PASOK and New Democracy, and then the others came and put the tomb on top. That's the truth. The reality is that. By bad manipulations - I'm not saying at all. Soon, you failed, gentlemen. And you come today as a machine of gods - since you speak of HERAKLE, we are not talking about tragedy here, we are talking about comedy - to solve the problem. It's not solved, it's really not solved. So you rejected the bad bank proposal. Okay. You rejected the proposal to buy the borrowers themselves their loans. How much do you give it, 2%, 8%, 10% on the crows? I'm sorry, in the funds, you guys say, we say to the crows. Call Velopoulos who's a borrower, - I'm not, I haven't got a loan - and tell him: you'll get it with 15%. They'll give you more money, believe me. If you tell a borrower "you get it with 15%" you get more money. That's not what you're doing either. Now you come to a point to use from the "cushion" made by the gentlemen here, the 37 billion. a sum of 12 billion. Let me tell you something, Minister. Are bankers more important than our national defense? Why don't you take from there 3-4 billion to equip Greece, because we don't have ammunition, why do we not have planes or have problems with their spare parts - why does it save and well serve the bankers? Why? You tell me - so we don't have the Turks chubby, since it's timely? I wonder. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] What glowers, what great minds these are! You know, you economists because you teach economy in theory, in papers, that is, in books, don't know what a applied economic policy is for businesses. Because I am an entrepreneur - I did not study economics, archaeology and history - I know what balance is. As you do, mathematics is doomed to fail. It's never gonna work. And tell you why. If I look back, since 2012, there have been five bank rescues. The exact same story the previous ones told us, Mr. Undersecretary, that "we will do this", "we will do that", "recapitalisations to save the banks, give loans". They were falsifying the world. And when we talk about governments, we mean New Democracy and PASOK. And a few SYRIZAs we got at the end, I repeat, not to forget. They also said: 'The last solution', 'the big solution', 'the one with a red loan', poor guy, will not take his home'. But the exact opposite we did. We've reached the edge of the cliff. Greece has a percentage of red loans of 39%, when Europe has 3.5%! I honestly cannot understand the logic of irrationality and could not agree. There are other details, Mr. Villardus told them. I do not really want to say anything about it, but I have a question to ask. The red borrower to what benefit? You tell me. If you're talking about answering us where it's going to benefit. But make a commitment, Mr. Zabwe. Because as many times as have been committed here, the commitment was a bubble. Again, they are the same ministers, Stavros, they will come to us after PASOK and SYRIZA, Stathakis, again, they will come, saying the same things. They failed. The Greek citizens have, of course, voted for them. We said, suicidal ideation is called that, but it doesn't matter. They're repeating it the wrong one. It doesn't matter, they do. You say the same thing. Even the European Central Bank has objections, it has asterisks, if you like. Specific asterisks, not to tell them not to eat and time, have objections: dates of entry into force and termination of the public guarantee, more specific rules for the submission of public guarantee claims and more. I said 'asterisks', Mr. Undersecretary, I did not say 'great objections', since their friends are at ease. Who are their friends? The funds you serve. That's the truth. Because I would agree with Mr Varoufakis on one thing, that unfortunately Europe's civil servants are not what they were in the past, Mr Secretary-General. There is no one named Clemanshaw, there is no great form, Thatcher, which in any case I disagree with, but it was a great form. I disagree, Mr Pappa, with its political stance, but it was a great form. There are no such politicians in Europe. Now you've got McCron, who barks, can't bite, you got me Merkel who does what she says anyway, her own banking system, which ends. Deutsche Bank - because I know Germany - is a huge rotten bubble. Sloppy one of the biggest banks, rot really! I mean, no zombies, no rot, it smells from a distance. And you come here now to solve the problem without any plan! Now, you know if you've told me that you're going to personally commit to having some questions and what the commitment means to succeed. How much can Mr. Zavvos commit? Because I don't see Mr. Stakoura next door. Politicians ran her.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u207	He's coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u208	Do you see it? It's your plan, I know, but listen to me. I see that this is where politicians are afraid, because they're voted on, they've done it with light jumps. Because they know this plan won't work, my Minister. Here we are. May it succeed. Save the people with the red loans. But I don't see it. I need a favor, Mr. Zabwe. You look like a good man. With your brother, I imagine you're doing well. Let him ask Mr. Soros why he hates Greece so much. I call it human now. A question to ask him why he's taking pictures of Rama with the Skopje, Mr. Soros all the time? Why doesn't it help our Eleanor? Why does Mr. Soros have such hatred? After speaking with him - and that is not bad, to God, and you are not responsible - ask him. I have a brother too, I ask him. Ask him a question. Why, Mr. Zabves, brother of the Undersecretary, did Soros hate Greece so much? Tell me one reason, I'll understand. Why? And since he's so close to him, let him turn into a philhellene. Let him go a little, let him try or try you and your government convince Mr. Zavvos who is next to Mr. Soros to be more philhellene. I say this on request, I have no intention of telling you anything different. Because we are talking about the economy - Mr President, give me a little more time - I want to say something about topicality. The President of the Pan-Hellenic Consumer Shops Association, gentlemen of the New Democracy, has arrived. You'll have fun in the elections, I'll tell you right now! I told you here when you did this ruthless, disgusting, tri-smoking law, that we would suffer bad social explosions. Already there are redundancies in many shops due to the fact that you made a law strictly fascist, antidemocratic, quit smoking by everyone. I said that from the outset, you are creating problems. Man's out and he says, we're in trouble, they're going to close shops. And if they close shops, they'll lose jobs. You don't get it. You're going to be fooled by people. And there are a lot of them, there are hundreds of thousands of people who work and have shops. I could never understand why. Have we solved all the other problems in the country to solve the smoking problem? Because Mr. Mitsotakis does sports or skis and has good physical condition and does not smoke, should I also not smoke or anyone who does not smoke? We must not smoke, but also have smokers and non-smoker shops. What's more democratic than that, what's nicer? What democracy is this? I say it, if you want, with special attention, not to say another word. I'll also tell SYRIZA that I, gentlemen of SYRIZA, don't believe SYRIZA became a stable or a pigsty, honestly. SYRIZA is neither stable nor a pigsty. Why am I saying that? Because you have a lady who called the police 'cocks, pigs and murderers'. It calls, therefore, the policemen, which most of you have, I imagine, beside you or your Chief, "pigs", that is to say, "pigs" to those who guard you, and not a reproach against it - not a deletion, to God, all right, it may have been a wordless blow, a foolishness - nor should your party say anything against Mrs Cassimatis, which calls the "bats" - which I do not say - "pigs" and "killers". And yet, these "pigs" and these "killers" have them next to you to guard you, to keep your own life. That's what bothers me. I don't understand your logic unless you're all homogeneous. Because pigs need a stable and if you carry them with you it means that you are homogeneous. I don't believe it to God. Pull any of this up to SYRIZA, it's not bad. You have many components, but you remain a second party. It's very important, because you're a great power. So if you want to help democracy, such voices must stop. Because these children are paid for EUR 900, not more, they have no guns, they have no patrols, they have no electronic infrastructure, we give them nothing. They provide security as far as they can and you swear them. Well, it's not like that. Not mine and yours again. Let's go to the last one, and I'll close, Mr. President. On Sunday there's a course. Minister - the Minister of Public Order - is not here - they are marching, says, the Pakistani Community on Sunday morning, because an idiot - I will say so, they told me that he has psychological problems - he went to Omonia and found Allah and they will make a course of protest motivated by some Constantine of Antarctic - I don't know what this guy, the professional anti-racist, is. They're going to march because they're going after Allah. It reminds me of the story of the burned Quran that never existed, and there were episodes. Take note, then, of some who operate and act insurmountably, gentlemen of the government, gentlemen of the New Democracy. So be careful behind the back of Greece what can happen. Watch out for a bit more. To ban this protest, however. Because a madman, an idiot, a lunatic, started to curse Allah, is not going to march Pakistani to Greece, illegal or legal. These things are not done without any permission! What is Greece, a clear vine? We will swear Buddha tomorrow, the others will come out, we will swear Allah, the others will swear. What are these things? We can swear, of course, - the law does not forbid it - Jesus and Holy Mary, but once they swear Allah, the Pakistanis will go out on the streets. These are not democracies. But I also have a human issue to testify. I would like to ask, this prosecutor, the prosecutor who released the Albanian evildog with a hundred years in prison, a heavier killer, this prosecutor who left him, the Justice Minister, left yesterday in the bracelet, went out with a bracelet, broke it and left - the punk who killed people, the evildoer, with a decision came out.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u209	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u210	Listen, if they were to kill your child or your wife, you'd say the same thing. Because I know my friend who killed his mother, you know that? So this prosecutor who gave a man a hundred and a half years of jail leave to go out must leave the body tomorrow morning. Because, gentlemen, murderers, pedophiles and drug dealers cannot enjoy privileges and rights in a country that respects democracy and respects man and respects the universal values of the existence of life, Mr Katrin. That's the reality. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Closed up - because some people get misunderstood, no matter - I'll show a picture and show it to the government. Honestly, when I saw her, I was shocked just by the image and the view. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, I give you this picture here. You sent an ambassador to Mr. Erdogan. Look at his bow. I have similar pictures of ambassadors sitting in the eye. When the ambassador of Greece bows down, the head is bent in front of Mr. Erdogan, to the sultan, the point of the body means something. So these images have been transmitted by a German channel, Mr Colleague, and I will not say your name personally so as not to take the floor - a German channel, and the journalist has commented on it as I said now. It shows an ambassador's indulgence to a sultan. So they embarrass Greece, too, and shame the Greeks. Get your head up at last. They keep challenging. Get your head up, because you keep making mistakes. The Minister cannot come out, Mr. Dendias, the other wide-ranging Treasury, and agree with Katorugalos and Kotzias, gentlemen of the New Democracy, and lie that Greece has a smaller coastline than Turkey. Because that is the basis of Turkey's claim. Greece has a larger island coastline, because it is the island coastline and the continental coastline. Make the fish meat so you can take us to the gathering. And Mr. Dendias has no right to say such things and to make such mistakes, which the Turkish press is based on and is talking about Turkey's law. Be careful, because as you speak, you are being exposed and you agree with Katrugalo in "win-win", "kazan-kazan", you agree with Kotzia that we cannot be lonely. It's not like that. The Aegean is Greek, Cyprus is Greece, Crete is Greek and it is Greece and we are not negotiating it. Tell the Prime Minister of the country, who apparently has agreed with Mr Tsipras - they have agreed not to do what we and Mrs Gennamas, the Council of the Parties' Heads of State. It is very dangerous what Mr Tsipras did at the time when you, in the New Democracy, said that he is making personal policy, that he was talking to Erdogan two hours and that we did not know what he had agreed. You do the same now. So Mr. Tsipras does not ask for a council of political leaders. The New Democracy doesn't ask for it, and it doesn't want it. So I repeat that I denounce that there is underground agreement between the two major parties not to become the council so that we never know what the'red' lines of our country, Greeks and Greece are. The EOZ has to be done, and it's going to be done for the end of the story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u211	The Minister of Finance, George Zavvos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to speak on behalf of the staff about a few of the irresponsible - I would say - and asymmetrical hints of Mr Velopoulos about something that I do not understand what concerns me, to what I am touched on. I would just like to say that such reports degrade the level of the National Representation to a level that I cannot follow. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last July the New Democracy, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis at the top of its agenda, had one of the most acute problems that ever had a country of the European Union and the Eurozone. The huge volume of'red' loans amounted to 45% of the total volume of loans, while, as you said and know, the Eurozone average was 3.5%. Red loans reflect exactly those pathogens that your parties have cut and which have brought the country to the edge of the cliff. In fact, some here who played Greece in the dice dare at the moment to teach good policy lessons. Ladies and gentlemen, after three recapitalisations made with the resources of the Greek taxpayer, the country continued to see red loans increased, while liquidity had been deprived in the real economy and had paralyzed any productive activity. By that time the New Democracy Government took over its efforts to resolve them had proved to be fragmentary, insecure and unwitting, because they did not address the problem at its base. Unfortunately, what I have heard from some of the anti-Populations means that for some time now they have not learned anything yet and continue with the same minds without a plan, without a compass and would still like the country to be drawn to the exact same point. The New Democracy does not give anyone social sensitivity, precisely because the plan 'HARAKLIS', as we said yesterday, has at its core the Greek citizen, who suffered the crisis, the one who expects to see a better day, breath and exit from the situation that exactly brought him the policies you know. The government at the time knew that it needed a bold and realistic plan to reduce red loans, which would, however, be part of a strategy to relaunch the banking sector. For this project, he negotiated, adopted and proposed today the government as a law in the Greek Delegation, is just one of the most shallow projects. It practically reflects the reform shock that the Prime Minister promised in an election. It is characterized by determination, speed, efficiency, both in its conception and implementation. Some dates to remember: on 9 July we sign the government, 13 September we sign and send to Brussels the proposal, on 10 October Mrs Westager and the Commission respond positively. In mid-November the project is ready and it is sent back to DG COMP, to the Central European Bank for Comments. Today the "HRAKLIS" as a comprehensive bill, prepared by the best lawmakers in the country, is in front of you for a vote. The coordination of all the factors of the Greek banking system that spoke for the first time in a long time with one voice was achieved by HARAKLI. As you know very well, it has been fully supported by the European partners who have seen through this improvement and the prospect of exiting from one of the worst problems facing our country and the Eurozone today. It was a great reward from international markets and investors, those of whom some call speculators, because they would still like the Greek people and the Greek citizen to take the burdens of this solution on their back. HARAKEL's aim is - and at its core is - the small and medium-sized citizen, the small and medium-sized businessman, the conscientious borrower, all those who legitimately expect to see the banks play their part again as the main liquidity providers in the real economy. Two are the main objectives: firstly, strengthening the country's financial stability and, secondly, boosting growth. HERAKLIS is a systemic project, because, as we know, it aims to eliminate at least 40% of the total volume of red loans. It is based on the markets and not on the Greek taxpayer. The State provides its guarantee in terms of private finances, as any individual would do. The banks will pay the price, the commission. HERAKLIS does not touch, as has been said badly, the pillow and it is not recapitalisation like the ones you know. He is friendly to the investor because at a unique juncture where there are negative interest rates and on the other hand there is great demand on the bond markets, Greece comes out for the first time after a decade, Greece appears again on the investment map with the bond of "HRAKLI". This is the positive sign of all this function. It's an innovative and bad plan, someone said it's a popy paste in Italian. Obviously, we were inspired by the Italian, but don't forget that Italy is an investment great country, while Greece wasn't. Therefore, special negotiations were needed to give all those guarantees and all those possibilities, reliable calculations, so that the Greek banks, even in the situation they were in, could have access to the international capital markets. Ultimately, "HRAKLIS" is a project that hits the big bad payers. You need to understand that and anyone who really sees how the mechanism works will see why it obliges the banks to go after those who have systematically failed their obligations. However, what I think we should contain more than anything is that it is a project that has been made possible by government change, which inspired confidence in the markets and dramatically reduced the interest rates of raising capital, so that Greece today, as you know, borrows less than the United States. This is how the cost of bank commissions fell. Is this plan possible, the cloudy one once that was, obviously, before the previous government, but that was never possible to pass it, because that government change needed exactly? After ten years of extroversion, toxic apnea again Greece returns with confidence in the international investment map and reintroduces the Greek banking system and the Greek economy as an equal partner in Europe. The international investors and the partners and the Greek citizens know today that the Greek economy, the banking system, are definitely in hands. They can trust it and that is why we have the full support of all Europeans. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft creates a framework for a new framework for a series of factors, which we will have the opportunity to discuss, concerning banks, a special purpose vehicle, bond holders and the public which creates specific structures. But I would like to say a few things to clarify this deliberate confusion, which has been caused by saying that HERAKLIS will hit homes, mobilise processes and people will be on the road. There is nothing more inaccurate than what has been said. I want to assure the National Representation that the HARAKLIS project is based on the investor and not on the taxpayer, as I said. It does not change to a minimum the position of the borrower and his rights. The ‘HRAKLES’ does not relate to the sale of loans in funds. The protection of the borrower, based on the legal framework of the management of red loans and the Code of Conduct, does not change. The legal framework for the protection of first residence is not affected by the ‘HRAKLE’. In addition, you have to bear in mind that there will be an increased possibility of diversifying the honest borrower from the systematic poor payer. Mr President, I would like to say that HERAKLIS marks the third phase after the negotiation. After the legislature, we have the application of the "HRAKLE" and it will be an effort where the country should focus on the next eight to ten months. We will therefore be focused on this perspective. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I would also like to say that at the beginning of next year, the attempt to reform the financial sector will be completed with a proposal on the reform of the Greek Stock Exchange and a piece of legislation, which will also show the government's social sensitivity to those who exclude the banking system, to those who are troubled by the exploitation. That's why we're bringing in the micro-credit institution, I mean the ones that are stirring up by toddlers. The successful implementation of HARAKEL will contribute to strengthening the stabilisation of the Greek banking sector as well as to the upward development path that literally mark the government's forward reforms, crucial to the citizen, crucial to the economy and, above all, to social cohesion. I call, for my part, on the National Representation to fully support the 'HRAKLI' bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u213	And we thank the Minister. Mr President, would you like the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u214	Mr President, for a minute. I don't know if Mr. Zavvos studied abroad, but he probably didn't understand my Greek. I made the request. You didn't understand that, Mr. Zabvé. I begged you to speak to your brother - you might not be talking to Mr. Soros to be a more philhellion. I don't know why you took it wrong. It's a request. Is that too bad? I don't doubt you for that. That's none of your business. It's none of your business. It's your brother's business. Secondly, I do not understand how the Greeks fits with the red loans? You didn't explain or commit. How, in any case, will the Greek who has a red loan from this story be won by himself? You didn't tell us. Generally speaking, you told us. Thank you very much, but you probably did not understand what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u215	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u216	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u217	I'm still not going to answer on personal grounds. I said I really can't follow that level. As for what will benefit the Greek borrower and the Greek citizen, I think it is clear. Once the banks’ balance sheets come out of the bulk of the red loans, these necessary liquidity resources are released, which will fall into the real economy. We really mean the citizen, the real economy, we mean the small and medium-sized enterprises, which are now in need of more than some other time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u218	Mr Lazaros Tsavdaridis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by commenting on the position of Mr Varoufakis, who has come to the House again to develop a theory, which, however, is far from reality, which is quite different, as is also the suffocating environment in which Greek banks, Greek entrepreneurs and Greek households operate today. In practice, Mr Varoufakis once again told us things that he and the other SYRIZA officials in 2015 had the same theory, which eventually led Greece to the closure of banks, the imposition of capital controls, the danger of leaving the country from the euro and a huge insecurity that Greek citizens experienced for their money at that time. With regard to this bill, I would like to point out that just a few days ago US Minister of Trade Wilbur Ross, speaking at an investment conference in New York, said that the recovery of the Greek economy is today impressive. He paid tribute to the Prime Minister, arguing that these results are not random, but are due to entrepreneurship-friendly policies of the new government. Of course, the government is pleased that its brutal efforts are officially recognised by the international environment. More satisfaction, however, when he sees that our country is now borrowing at a cheaper rate than the US itself, that the economy is taking back, that the investment climate is changing rapidly from the polar temperatures of SYRIZA, it is returning to Mediterranean, sometimes tropical temperatures for the days of New Democracy. In each case, however, the optimism of the positive results does not complicate the government. Instead, it motivates it, in order to move it rapidly towards all the necessary reforms that will ensure a definitive transition to normality, economic boom and social well-being. This week, after all, shows the legislative orgasm of a government that is not compatible with good, but ask for the best, which is not sufficient to 'fast', but asks for the 'fast', which is not left to 'effective', but is chasing 'effective'. Interministerial bill we had in previous days, a draft law on the vote of the Greek voters outside the territory, a draft law on national defence and a draft law on the national economy, what we are discussing today. An economy that starts to stigmatize on its feet again, but that needs strong roots to spread and magnify. We all know that, in order to achieve this, we must tackle the greatest pathogenicity to date, that of non-performing loans. Because the successful exit from the financial supervision programmes will not be complete if this problem of our banking system is not addressed in a timely and efficient manner. This is precisely the meaning of this draft law on the 'ERAKLIS' project which comes to a vote in the form of an urgent procedure. It is a bill that is waiting poorly for investors, who are lifting their weight and coming like a real Christmas gift to the Greek economy, far away from SYRIZA's sterile donation policies that redeploy poverty and misery. What is the plan "HERAKLIS"? It is a plan for the resolution of the banking system aimed at efficiently managing the large volume of non-performing loans of EUR 70 billion, which are a slow-track bomb for our banks. It is a project that has the full support of the Bank of Greece, of all banks and of the Union and which has already received the positive response of the European Central Bank. It is a project that will pave the way for the granting of liquidity to the market and the real economy and for the achievement of higher growth rates than our country. It is a plan that budgets the state's expected revenue from this securitisation to EUR 200 million as a fee for the guarantees that the state will give. It is a plan that will have a zero burden on the taxpayer, it will have no financial impact, no public budget burden, no effect on the debt or deficit, and it will not affect at all our colleagues in the LTPD. Thus, the benefit of HARAKEL for households and businesses, as well as banks and the state itself will be huge. The project "HRAKLIS" fully responds to his name, is another sport of the government that at last gives the verb "invest" the gravity and role that he deserves in a modern economy, a verb that in the days of SYRIZA was mocked, mocked, marginalized, stigmatized, stigmatized and targeted, while on the days of our own governance he is magnified, motivated and starved in the development course of Greece. But it is also another wretch of the government because in practice it proves that Hercules is not the ancient mythical hero with the supernatural power, but modern hard work, a job that can be step by step - to break down dead ends, to mobilize investors, banks, organisations, associations of states, to dramatically improve the image of our economy and the psychology of the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u220	Mr. Nikos Pappas has the floor for five minutes from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr President. I think today is the day of justice for those of the government's majority who said that the pillow should be used to reduce the bank's red loans. It is, I would say, and the proof that when there is a need we can legislate at the astronomical speed of EUR 400,000 per hour. Because 12 million euros for thirty hours - we will discuss this - is about EUR 400,000, 000 an hour. Mr Minister, I think that this speed is offensive to Parliament. It is a very crucial issue, to get in these procedures, and everything but it falls within the declarations of good law. It is also proof that New Democracy sees the world backwards. The banking system exists to serve the economy. And when the economy cannot, we cannot say 'the worst for the economy'. And it has already escaped you at the Regulatory Effects Report. In the formal question 'What social groups will benefit from this legislation'? Please explain that the banks will reduce their exposure to non-performing loans and secondary only will the economy improve, because they will be able to borrow some time in the future. And I would like to ask the Members of Parliament to tell them, because I have heard here that the bill is being supported. In your constituencies, I do not know if many bankers, bank managers, are frequent. To them, you will have to apologize to borrowers and small and medium-sized ones. See what GSEE said about this bill unless it is partisanly marked by GSEE towards the government. So we don't have that. We have a project that primarily serves the banks and the real economy, because it is quite clear that there will be bad losses by changing ownership to companies. And, of course, this legislation comes and falls fully under the protection of the first residence which you have started since spring. That is what you want to guarantee, and of course, with a very strong and very strong attitude, you opposed us when we said that the pillow must be used to create a financial space. So people understand that you have supported your feet when we said that with the pillow we can create a financial area, so that the small and medium-sized 100% advance payment of tax but not 50%, is not to pay the solidarity levy for incomes of up to EUR 20,000, in order to reduce the central rate of VAT. None of this. And here comes a piece of legislation, which says: Guarantees EUR 12 million million. And listen - listen, if there is elementary logic and respect for the National Representation, it must be withdrawn. With a ministerial decision, can the amount be increased? Each Minister for a 50,000-euro competition takes two months. And we're going with a ministerial decision to increase? So, Mr Zabwe, in eighteen months' time you will be able to sign a ministerial decision without coming to the National Representation and say 'another EUR 10,000,000 for the project'? I think it is a shameful arrangement that must necessarily be withdrawn. There is a major issue of transparency. Who will they be accountable to? You're inviting Italy. Do you know that the Central Bank of Italy calls on these special-purpose vehicles to give their business plan and apologise for their performance? Will Parliament's committees know what these special-purpose vehicles are doing or will they be able to do, do favors or kill business? These are major issues. And it comes just to tie all your logic to the absence of a development strategy. Now beware of the contradiction. You don't have a development strategy. You have promised the partners that you will testify. You have brought a developmental law "go for dogs" normally, bring the bill for the so-called "ERAKEL" who will certainly also get from the pillow without any development strategy at the table, what we will do with these special-purpose vehicles, if there are companies that are currently working on critical infrastructure projects, if there are companies that bring modern technology to Greece. No priority, nothing. The market forces will tell us where the country is going. There is also no obligation on the banks - it was made elsewhere - in Britain a decade ago - because they take public guarantees to finance small and medium-sized enterprises. In Britain, Minister, 25,000,000 pounds were forced to increase their funding so that the banks could get into such plans. The banks therefore exist to serve the economy and not the other way around. And don't say that we won't have to put our hands in the taxpayers' pocket, because they're just guarantees, because a part of the negotiation with the banks you've been conducting, too, throughout the entire period, is the amount that the Greek State will pay to discount the guarantees of the loans of the vulnerable groups. You say a million euros, banks say 3,000,000 euros. How do you come now and tell us 'we will now put 12,000,000 euros of guarantees, unnecessarily 'yes'? Well, if they're uncomfortable, don't put them on. Obviously, you put them because they will be used and exploited, and that is what the Greek people understand. In the elections, however, it is not just the bankers who vote, Mr Minister. The small and medium-sized ones are voting for, too, the borrowers are voting for those who need first residence protection, and you will see that very soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u222	Mr. Kostas Scandalidis has the floor from the Movement for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u223	Minister, in yesterday's position you said that this is a crucial bill which has been in consultation for some time with all the technical services and the European institutions. They also consulted, as you said, the lawyers of the Bank of Greece, the banks' lawyers, the lawyers of the Financial Stability Fund, the lawyers of the Ministry of Finance. Obviously, the government believes that, after lawyers have told each other, they have nothing to add to the social partners or the citizens' in-depth information. Today my concern was raised because we have the European Central Bank on the one hand to say that certain provisions may create legal uncertainty and could be recast effectively in order to increase the risk reduction and you, in the question that has been made of how the economy and society will benefit, said about 'we' to kill the borrower, so that the liquidity bank can acquire and use them as it wants, in order to invest and develop the economy'. I say this, if you will, in a way perhaps absolute, but you have given me this impression in your general speech. What would they have to contribute to a parliamentary debate by representatives of millions of homeowners, business and data owners, whose loan contracts will change managers? What will benefit Greek citizens to attend a parliamentary debate on a guarantee programme for the Greek public mammoth, which even relates to the greater transfer of assets to Memorandum through the sale of red loans estimated at EUR 30 billion, according to your words? I recall that the outstanding guaranteed balance for 2019, according to budget figures, is EUR 9,953 billion, while the total of the guarantees that may be granted by the Greek State over the next sixteen months amounts to EUR 12 billion. Are those tall letters, which lawyers and European institutions have said? You are not really helping and discrediting with this tactic the procedures for consultation and the effective safeguarding of all the guarantees required by the parliamentary order, so that there is a serious response to such a large programme, such a great problem. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now look at the 'ERAKLI' programme in mythological terms. The program, like Hercules mythological, has a mother to the European Commission, but two fathers, his biological, which is SYRIZA, and his stepfather, which is the New Democracy. In the debate in the committee yesterday Collapsation and Civicism competed for their paternity and designality. By whom did the child get the best attributes? I am not sure that they will have the same paternity filter if the "HRAKLES" proves to be incapable of carrying out its thirteenth athletic, because it will be a disgrace. I see Mr. Pappa as well. I think you're starting to stay away from the real child. If the management of reds means mass liquidation of first homes or the liquidation of businesses, how will the high senior bonds be paid to guarantee the State, which will also finance many housing loans to qualify for an increased assessment? If the project fails to achieve its objectives and more guarantees are required, does the bill benefit it by providing for expansion by a simple decision of the Minister of Finance? Inadmissible. Or if, even more, the management fails in their work and there are miscarriages of guarantees with all financial and financial side effects? I would remind you that the Bank of Greece has already anticipated that further intervention will be required beyond the "ERAKLI". It goes without saying, since since EUR 70 billion is expected to raise, if it succeeds, the EUR 30 billion maximum. The problem is therefore triple. It concerns the capital adequacy of banks with the forecasts of non-performing loans, the borrowers who are soon to be or will be in the financial margin from the risk of mass auctions and, of course, any new investment activity mainly of small and medium-sized enterprises that are unable to obtain from the banking system. According to the plan, banks will be able to transfer non-performing loans to a special vehicle, for which we require much more specific things, which will securitise and sell the bonds to private individuals. The problem with the implementation and success of the project concerns the possibility of selling securities, i.e. entering the Greek market for foreign investors, and the fact that the Greek State's guarantee will be provided for loans with high collateral rather than completely precarious guarantees. The overall result will be instead of restructuring by means of the necessary haircut for entire business and business sectors in order to make them viable, decommissioning by means of liquidation by means of auctions. Minister, we cannot be optimistic, because the other common child of SYRIZA and the New Democracy, the euphemism of 'new mortgage protection framework' so far, according to the Special Secretariat for Private Debt Management, is dramatically ineffective. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in two minutes. We do not expect the 'ERAKLIS' to be abused to feel justified. We have again tabled an amendment and our proposal to extend L.3869 for at least one more year to protect the really weak borrowers, but also to buy the loans from the borrowers before or after being transferred to the management companies, even the loans that have already been transferred to the funds, to their transfer price or higher for the bank. Because for us the primary economic objective is the sustainability of households and businesses. They must adapt the balance sheets of the banks and the budgets of the Member States rather than the reverse. Ladies and gentlemen, the next year is crucial. If the so-called momentum for the Greek economy is not exploited, it will perhaps be lost on the basis of international economic and geopolitical developments and then we will have to invent a new mythical hero in order to raise on its back the new deadlocks of the Greek economy. That is why we believe that time is relentless. Of course Greece has a lot of heroes. We can find out about every job and a hero and name a bill. But let's see how we don't kill the borrower and the man who is suffering today and who is the basis on which only the relaunching of the economy could be based.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u224	Mr. Constantine Boubas has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u225	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, I guess the plan should have said not 'HERAKLIS', but 'PILOT'. Even the name Hercules you're tempting can be right. But to remind you that it was the Philosopher who saddened Hercules, because Hercules was self-defensed, as he killed Kentavros Nessos and Deira gave him the tunic, where from his own arrows he suffered. And I fear that the project itself can poison itself and poison the average Greek citizen. And it's just things, but in life simple is difficult, the complex is easy. So you are doing this particular bill, with bond securitisation, with a management policy that will have the blessings of the European Central Bank. In Article 6, you can exceed the sum of EUR 12 billion, which means that you do not only give the pillow to the bankers, you also give the quid. And I fear very much that the Greek people will not have a veil to cover the bulwark that their first residence gives him. But, Minister, it is not just about the first residence, it is about family-run businesses which unfortunately sabotaged. It's a part of his life where the businessman hurts his business that he couldn't respond. In Article 13, you give fifty days. In fifty days will he be able to collect a company, these funds, what a family chief could not give with a small company in the region, the loan he had received, because the crisis led him to a shipwreck? If that's possible! We take the Commission's blessings to Article 16. In Article 17 this committee, which will monitor the guarantees given by the State, is composed of whom? What will be the composition of this committee? You know, because you have a rich resumed CV and you are a legal expert in financial law for countries that have borrowed from Central and Eastern Europe, you are a mentor on the Commission's legal board. Unfortunately, the financial system controls the policy of the Elderly. We have reached the point today that a politician should be a prisoner, a hostage of large trusts, because they have made his advertising campaign or made loans to him, otherwise he can't stand up to the political system. Since 1824 we have been in the logic of recapitalising the banks since we got the loans over Trikoupi. Two days ago, we had a black anniversary of 1893, where Trikoupis against many in the Minutes, when the phrase was questioned, said "We went bankrupt". Why? Because by taking a loan of 635 million pounds of gold, half of them came to Greece. And then we had the term "golden beetle" for the limos of the time. It was the Golden Boys. How are we going to protect the title of a small company that has not been able to cope with this vicious banking system? Do you want to strengthen the banking system with liquidity in the market near the businessman? Where's ETVA? Why has this Investment Bank been dismantled for the small and medium-sized enterprises? Where are the cooperative banks, two, three in Greece? Give them greater benefits, such as in France, where 'France Agricole' is one of the largest. Give these banks a cooperative impetus to be sure of the citizen. Will these funds not be of a collective nature to be at stake, to be circumvented personal data, in order to collect from the citizens who are required to these funds? If that's possible! Some points come in, where the banking system will help, but the result will not be good for the Greek people. Believe me, the Greek people have fallen into this financial difficulty. The Greek is a housewife in the majority and wants to pay. But alas, if you hurt his house. You know that shape was the shape the natives made in America's Vespuki, Christophorus Columbus, Da Gama and Magellanic. That means housing protection. Since then, when colonialism became, they wanted this protection. Don't give the wrong title. “HRAKLE” was self-defense. Watch it. Minister, I would like you to tell me this: have you made a statement that you said that this credit system is like a building, where in order to protect the fourth and fifth floors we have to sell the first floor, second and third floors? Is that true? Because if you've said that, it means it's all right. But how will he get down on the fifth, when the first and second floors are sold? He has to pay tolls. Because it's like selling the entrance and the exit. Do you understand that? Protect small businesses. Protect the first residence. Give it a safeguard to the Greek. Alas, if each state gives a short prolongation for when it will protect the first residence. It is a fair system that you must support, as far as the protection of first residence is concerned. He's got to keep up with it all the time. It cannot be limited of time, when a citizen loses his job, increases his income with a certain contract of work and returns to the previous situation, and legal procedures need to be reintroduced to introduce into this system of regulation that has to be social in nature, to have a profile. Because the state must be a protector, not of the banking system, but has an anthropocentric character if we want citizens to be close to us and not be representatives, but cloned representatives of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u226	Thank you. The Minister has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr President. I would again like to summarize a few comments. HERAKLIS is based on the investor and not on the taxpayer, that is, it will not affect, as we have said, the pillow, instead of what some would like. The aim is precisely to free funds from the banks so that they can go to the real economy that there are real needs. There is an important social dimension. And care will be taken for healthy businesses that need to be rescued from the crisis. This situation cannot be perpetuated, and from what we have heard there is no significant proposal from the previous speakers. I would like here to come to the guarantee given by the Greek State. Why 12 billion? It's not an arbitrary number. It is 12 billion because these proposals and the indications of both the Greek banks and the European Supervisor. By putting 12 billion in guarantee, we are reducing red loans at least 30%. Why can we make an extension? That is precisely because there can be much more mood and participation in the 'ERAKLE'. Is that bad? No, of course not. It will be proof of the success of the system. How's it going to happen? Apparently, with a ministerial decision. There will be a debate with the Commission to ensure that there is no State aid again. Did it happen in Italy? Of course. It's been three times. Three times the Italian State has extended, precisely because this system has had complete failure and no collapse until now. What's the guarantee for the public? Ladies and gentlemen, it is the most stable guarantee the Greek public has ever given. And I'll give you five basic reasons. The first is because it guarantees the safest part of the securitisation, exactly what I liked with the two floors of the building. Why? That is precisely why this part of the implementation has been assessed. He's been evaluated by approved rating houses. Secondly, because in order for the public guarantee to be activated, 50% plus 1% should have been sold, as was the case with two floors. Why? Because it has to be shown that there is a real appetite for the market. That is to say, this system is in operation and only then the Greek State has recourse to the activation of the guarantee. Third reason: because the Greek State, as if any other private person, has already received a commission. Inside the fee has been invoiced, any infinite event of the guarantee being taken into account has also been invoiced. Fourth reason: because there are all the managers. This new market, which will be licensed, which will be supervised by the Bank of Greece, which will be monitored precisely by the Ministry's Monitoring Committee, is intended to facilitate the processing of red loans. The administrator will be independent of the transfer bank. Do we have any safeguards? Of course, we have insurance systems for the success of the system, because we are motivating and disincentives. The main point is, however, that this special administrator will be able to renegotiate loans, make arrangements on the basis of the actual financial capacity of the borrower. And here, I'd like to say it's still there. There has been no change in the regime, which regulates the handling of loans between systemic and non-systemic banks, including credit institutions. And I think that we have recently discussed this in Parliament on a large scale. The fifth and final reason, Mr President, is that there is a new structure in the Ministry - which will be followed. The monitoring will be continuous. It will not just be a simple supervision once a year or every six months. The Ministry will be able to regulate, intervene and finally, if necessary, withdraw the licence from the administrator. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, too. Parliamentary spokesman of SYRIZA Mr Dimitrios Janakopoulos has the floor for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the problem of red loans - and here of course there is agreement in the Chamber - is a problem which, if not resolved, will constantly be in place for the recovery of the Greek economy in a safe and sustainable way. Of course, if the problem is not solved, it will not be possible for the country's historic moment of exit from the memoranda in August 2018 to produce all its beneficial results. Before I enter, however, the essence of the bill considered by the government and the Minister to be able to resolve the problem of red loans, I am required by what has been inaccurate in this Chamber about the history of the problem of red loans in the country to make some points. It seems, Mr Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, that you are forgetting exactly when it was that period during which the large launch of non-performing loans and non-performing exposures to the Greek economy took place. We are, of course, talking about the period, mainly, 2012-2014, when the non-performing loans and non-performing exposures remind you that they exceeded EUR 100 billion. We are talking at the moment about an extremely large sum, of course, which is EUR 75 billion, but it is important to remember that in 2014, non-performing loans and exposures exceeded EUR 100 billion. Of course, this has to do with the policy of extreme austerity, the policy of internal devaluation, because you insist that you see the problem of red loans as the first problem of bank balances and do not go hand in hand with the overall economic policy, which has been carried out during the period of especially the first and second memorandums, the reduction of the purchasing power of workers, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, any reduction in purchasing power and the reduction of their incomes, as well as the dismantling of unserved loans. The problem here is that the New Democracy suffered, but did not learn from the policy, which it conducted in the period 2012-2014, but also before the period of governance of Papademos. Of course, there are responsibilities - and huge - to those who signed the first memorandum, which has raised no question of the restructuring of bank loans, which have since begun to increase as regards the percentage of red, because it seems that the government now chooses a return to domestic devaluation policy in a number of fields. This is obvious, because with policy, for example, you are following in the workplace, what will we have? We will have a reduction in the purchasing power of the labour world, namely two million private employees, by the abolition of collective labour agreements, by the deterioration of the Labour Inspectorate, by the increase in black labour, by the increase in unpaid work, for which you have done nothing, but instead you are reversing the policies to reduce unpaid work, launched by the SYRIZA Government in 2015 and especially after 2018. You choose a reverse course, which will necessarily lead, together with the abolition of collective bargaining, to a reduction in workers' available income. It will therefore create the conditions for the core of its problem of reproduction, because I repeat that the problem of red loans is not a technical problem, it is not a problem of banks' balance sheet, it is a deep social problem, which is related to the possibility of sustainable and reducing the disparities in the growth of the Greek economy. We are not dealing here with an issue which must be approached exclusively from the viewpoint of the banks. If the only purpose of a strategy for red loans is to clear the balance sheet from the burden of red loans, then it is clear that we are completely overlooking the social dimension of the issue, that is to say, we are ignoring the view on the one hand of household income available and, of course, the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises, but, of course, we are also overlooking the perspective of protecting the first home, as well as the need for financing, the natural, normal and ever-increasing financing of the economy, that is to say, increasing liquidity in small and medium-sized enterprises. We therefore need a comprehensive strategy, a holistic strategy to address the problem, which will include, as its basic nuclear elements, the regulation on the protection of first homes, which the New Democracy does not want. And I'll tell you why he doesn't want to. Because, while he had all the time and the opportunity to present a clear and concrete plan to regulate the first residence, what he did was simply to extend for four months the transitional arrangement that the previous government had voted on. Here we will be and see that after this extension, which the New Democracy has given us, there is no way that there will be an effective plan to protect the first home. This is linked to the strategy with which you are dealing with the problem of red loans. Because, in the New Democracy context, protection of the first home would act as a stimulus for the optimistic buyers of bond securities issued by the special-purpose vehicle, because it would actually limit the profitability of the bond buyers. So you have every reason, on the basis of your own strategy, not to put forward an effective first home protection plan, because precisely this plan would act as a stimulus to what you choose to do with this bill. Do not insist, Mr President-in-Office, that the plan as it stands today relates primarily to borrowers, either to households or to small and medium-sized enterprises. It concerns, above all, not only banks, bankers and banks' balance sheets, and in essence it adopts a strategy that stimulates pressure, not strategic malpractices, but also genuinely those who are unable to pay, regulate their loans in ways which will not be beneficial to themselves and, finally, we say, perhaps - with certainty - in an auction lot, which will also lead to the profitability of all those who buy bonds issued by the special purpose vehicle, which you are creating. We must make a point here. We do not disagree with the need to have an asset protection scheme, which is an essential element of an overall strategy for dealing with the problem of red loans. However, we also have a very big issue with specific elements of the bill, but also with the lack of the New Democracy of an overall strategy which has a social viewpoint, it will have as its main criterion the protection of borrowers, not of the strategic malpractices as you say, but of the protection of those people's strata, which are currently not able to meet their obligations and their loans after ten years of crisis. That's exactly what's missing from your plan. Apart from this absence, however, of a holistic first home protection strategy, there are other issues relating to its own bill and its technical aspects. Firstly, the amount of the guarantees of EUR 12 billion, as our rapporteur and Mr Pappas have already said, cannot be redefined upwards with a simple decision by the Minister of Finance. We invite you to change that. This is a decision by the Minister of Finance, which in the end can have extremely unfavourable budgetary results. It is wrong to say that there will be no financial impact on the specific provisions of the bill. No one can know that because no one can know how many guarantees from the Greek public standpoint will be suppressed. Secondly, there is no provision for transparency for operations, for actions, for the control of services, which will be defined by the special vehicle to make all those restructuring operations, for loan haircuts, and nothing can assure us that there will not be a huge lock-out party. You are therefore obliged to provide in the bill specific conditions for the transparency of service operations, which is currently missing in full. Thirdly, despite the fact that the Greek State is being guaranteed a guarantee of 12 billion for this scheme, the Asset protection scheme, there is absolutely no obligation on the banks for 12 billion, which the Greek State puts as a guarantee. What do we say fat at the banks? That we as a Greek public put 12 billion as a guarantee, but it depends on the good will of the banks if they increase or do not increase funding for the Greek economy for small and medium-sized enterprises. If they want to, they will. If they don't want to, they won't. What are you telling us? That the market will regulate these issues itself, as it naturally regulated them in 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and we saw the excellent results of market self-regulation. On the contrary, even in Great Britain, in relative moves to protect and strengthen banks, there were particular legislative obligations on the part of banking institutions. Mr Papapas and the rapporteur have spoken of the 25 billion pounds which the banks have undertaken to take into account in the real economy in order to be able to finance and to be able to provide liquidity for businesses. What are you telling us? That you hope that by reducing red loans the banking institutions will be freed and on their own they will decide to go ahead with the financing of the Greek economy. This cannot, of course, be the case, in the good will of the bankers, when the Greek State comes again to put its own guarantees and protect the banks and help them to clear their balance sheets. We could say many more, Mr Ministers, on the issues of corporate governance, the participation of the Greek State in the Financial Stability Fund, given that we are now outside the Memorandum and therefore the negotiating power of any Greek government is very much increased. However, the way you have chosen to bring this bill to a debate - and this is why I will close my intervention in relation to this bill - we are not given the opportunity to have an in-depth debate. We are not even able to explain to the Greek people the complex financial concepts from which this bill is found, because you are bringing us to debate - and it is assumed that the public debate in the Greek Parliament is related to the need to inform the Greek people - a bill involving an extremely complex financial vocabulary: CDS, CDOs, GACS, which is, in fact, the way in which the Italian model was structured. There are other very complex financial conditions and yet you choose to legislate with five hours of discussion in plenary. I wonder what this is, which does not allow the government to give time, to give room, to enable Greek citizens to be informed of a technical but at the same time also a profound political initiative, which will affect the Greek economy to a very large extent in the coming months and will, of course, also affect small businesses and households. So here you are, too, accountable. Mr President, let me close. I call on the ministers to accept an amendment which we have tabled and which relates to the notices that have been made for teachers. I do not know if you know, Mr Ministers, that there has been a technical problem. A lot of thousands of teachers applied to be hired. There was a technical problem, and many of those who participated in the notice and applied for did not file the EUR 3 paradox. The AACC asks you to allow it to accept the paradoxes of the 3 euros over time, so that those who did not join the notice can participate in this competition that the AACC does. I think it's a no-cost move. You'll show goodwill and solve a problem which troubles thousands of people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u230	Before giving the floor to the Minister of Finance, Mr. Stavoura, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-one students and students from Serbia and four teachers, hosted by the American College "PIERCE". The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u231	Mr. Janakopoulos, I do not know if you have consulted Mr. Tsakalotos, but I think you have not read Mr. Tsakalotou's signatures. I'll be back in the course of my position.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u232	Has Mr. Chakalotos submitted a bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u233	You'll see everything here slowly. Ladies and gentlemen, today the financial staff are implementing a programme commitment, the thirteenth programming commitment, which was made in July 2019. They are commitments that the previous government has not been able to implement. Let me remind you what they are: we have covered the important budget gap for 2019 and 2020. We have successfully completed the fourth country assessment report in the context of enhanced supervision, despite the great delays we have found from the previous government, which are recorded in the previous institution report. We proceeded to a brave permanent reduction in the ENPIA. We have significantly improved the framework for tax debt arrangements for citizens. We simplified the procedures for protecting the first residence. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] We extended the existing framework by four months, Mr Janakopoulos. The framework for protecting the first residence was not transitional, as you said. It is a law of the state, Law 4605/19. The protection of first residence with the SYRIZA government at 31-12-2019, Article 72 was terminated. Because I always want there to be full clarity in the Greek Parliament, I will give the Minutes for all colleagues the course of the first home regime - a week - to have an image of how it helped the shape that the government has made in recent months so that the citizens can make use of the regulation that was actually launched by the previous SYRIZA government. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So it was something that started by you. We're going on. We've improved it. The results are good, but we call on all citizens to make use of this right by the end of April. I've done this before, because Mr. Loverdos asked me to. I update the list weekly to this day.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u234	The same as the tax is your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u235	Some things need insight. It's good to inspire them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u236	Are you going to say the same thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u237	Until I'm sure you've learned it, because every week we add one. So it's not the same. You'll find out.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u238	New budget speech...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u239	I will say that in the budget too, because it is important for the Greek citizens to hear what you have not done, which you have supposedly failed. We abolished the capital restrictions imposed in 2015. I know it bothers you to hear it, but you imposed it. We proceeded with flagrant investment projects that had been completed. We promoted privatizations that have long been dragging. We have moved forward and completed the payment of the exact portion of the World Monetary Fund loans. We have legislated on a coherent and effective framework for buying gambling online. We made an advance payment of an extended heating allowance and launched exceptional aid of about two hundred and fifty thousand of our compatriots, initiatives which were impossible when we took over the country's governance, since the previous government, according to the Minutes of this House, had exhausted the entire financial area. We have completed and passed a pro-development tax bill. We are therefore moving forward, quickly and safely, with seriousness, responsibility and moderation. And today we are legislating on a comprehensive and coherent plan to reduce the high reserve of non-performing loans through a securitisation of part of them. We are promoting a systematic solution to address the problem of red loans, adapted to the situation of both the Greek economy and the domestic banking system. This reinforces the stability of the financial system and confidence in it, opening the way to gradual credit expansion. In other words, to finance the real economy by providing liquidity to businesses and households, with the ultimate objective of achieving high and sustainable economic growth, creating many good jobs and strengthening social cohesion. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that in the last decade our country's credit institutions have experienced, due to the global crisis, domestic fiscal imbalances and their own errors, a great deterioration in their fundamental sizes, including in the quality of their loan portfolio. A deterioration that made it necessary to take state initiatives to form a support framework for them, with a view to strengthening confidence in the banking system. As a result of these initiatives together with achieving a budgetary balance, the stabilisation of the banking system in 2014, as all relevant domestic and international organisations and supervisory mechanisms, including SSM, confirmed then. Unfortunately, next year, in 2015, the position of the financial system deteriorated considerably. Political choices of the then government of SYRIZA, in particular in the first half of 2015, undermined the effort that had been ahead and shaken the confidence of depositors and investors to the Greek banks. The downward path of red loans, the creation of new red loans, observed in 2014, was the first time in the crisis reversed. The flow of new delays accelerated significantly, resulting in the Greek economy return to the recession in 2015 and 2016, from 0.8% of 2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u240	He's had a recession in the last three months.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u241	In 2014 he had growth. Your budget says so. Don't interrupt me. Read your signatures. In 2014 he had a growth of 0.8% and returned to the recession in 2015 and 2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u242	Excuse me, are we going to resolve this matter now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u243	Yeah, we were about to take off! He's had a recession in the last three months.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u244	By the end of the meeting, I will bring you the page of your budget. I'm invoking your signatures. I'm committed. We therefore had a recession in 2015 and 2016, imposing a bank holiday and capital restrictions, but - not to forget it - and a negative pre-election rhetoric, which influenced the stability of the banking system with the expectation of seismicism, which has raised strategic mispaids. You will tell me, these are political arguments. Give us some clues. From December 2014 to March 2016, red loans increased by EUR 10 billion. That was the cost of these choices. When all of Europe was moving forward, taking advantage of the favourable economic environment, the Greek banks suffered a new, unnecessary crisis, leading to a new, inappropriate, third recapitalisation. With this recapitalisation, costs have been added to the State, the ownership structure of credit institutions has changed and taxpayers have lost huge sums. I am presenting to you in the Minutes and showing you a table, which shows the percentage of the shares in the Financial Stability Fund, namely the Greek taxpayers in the Greek banks, at the end of 2014 and - something even worse for the destruction of the previous government - the value of this participation. This is the cost of governance SYRIZA to Greek banks, to Greek taxpayers in recent years. You see where the valuation of the shares, essentially of Greek taxpayers, was at the Greek banks and where they fell on your government by the end of 2019. This is the reality of your governance in recent years in the banking system. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] According to data from the European Banking Authority, the average non-performing loan ratio in the European Union fell in June 2019 below half compared to December 2014 at 3% of the loans. All countries have had impressive results in the reduction of red loans. Even in Cyprus, the relative index fell to levels close to 20%, from about 50% in 2014. On the contrary - Mr Papapas, I am always pleased - in Greece, the red loans remained at the end of June 2019 at the level you received them. That was the good job you did for the red loans! Look at that. Don't look at your phone right now. You've been looking at me all this time. Look, the painting will help you. Because you asked me before, it is good to answer. I have the official evidence I'm filing. Mr. Janakopoulos had all the time to file evidence, but he didn't file evidence. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Here you will see that in June 2019 red loans as a percentage of the total are 43.6%, while they were received in December 2014, which was 43.5%. That's the image you delivered. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Now Mr. Chakalotos will answer you. Wait. Mr. Chakalotos is coming. Today, however, red loans amount to 71 billion - that is the truth, very large number - of 42% of total loans. They are reduced by 33% compared with the historical amount of EUR 107 billion in March 2016. In March 2016, it was the highest point. We have reached EUR 107 billion. Without a systemic solution, however, the decline observed was mainly through deletions and, secondly, through sales. Throughout this period, the system unfortunately continued to produce new red loans, resulting not only from the bad economic position of businesses and households, but also from market distortions that prevented them from being managed effectively. This issue we are dealing with today, through an integrated plan to tackle the high private debt, including the draft law, which we are debating today. Therefore, Mr Janakopoulos, what we are doing is a regulation in the framework of the private debt regulation as a whole. It's a plan that the previous government never had and you say you were ready. What is the confirmation of what I'm saying? Hey, listen up. On October 31, 2015, the then Minister of Finance, Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotos, says in the Greek Parliament: "The treatment of red loans will be completed by the end of the year." He said it in October 2015 for the end of 2015. And today we're talking about red loans, because they're on the level you found at the end of 2014. That was your preparation! That was your preparation! I repeat: 'Let me say that the treatment of red loans will be completed by the end of the year'. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is the end of 2015 and we are at the end of 2019 and you leave the red loans at a rate of what was at the end of 2014. So for four years nothing happened. Red loans have not been dealt with. But they continue as long as you are in the opposition, delusional everywhere, delusional and in this area. Say you weren't committed? Because you said that you were dealing with this in the context of a comprehensive private debt arrangement. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European It says that you have tabled the plan that we are bringing today, but you have not gone ahead with it. It does not say anywhere that it is in the context of an overall approach to private debt. Here's the receipt from the third rating report in June 2019 for what you didn't do. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] One more thing. You said you didn't bring a law. Obviously, you didn't bring the law, but the texts, Mr. Janakopoulos, you sent them abroad. You sent them to CFI's texts because you said you didn't deposit a law. And these texts say nothing about other controversies that you are saying today. It does not say anything about the text to protect first homes, it does not say anywhere about a global approach to private debt. It's just a loan securitisation. Therefore, not delusional in that too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u245	Will you give this to us, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u246	I will not give this text. But he's at your disposal to see it. Everything else I've put it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u247	Is that classified?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u248	Ask your former minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u249	Why don't you testify? Check it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u250	I've filed a lot of documents.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u251	What are you afraid of?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u252	Please, this kind of debate does not help to move forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u253	Let the Minister testify. I guess he's ready to testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u254	Well, let's stop. I imagine what the Minister's filing, he mentions the source. Otherwise, I'm making a shape myself, and I'm filing it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u255	When he's beating it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u256	When you talk, ask the Minister, here he will be, give etc. Besides, what we are interested in right now is how the issue of red loans will be resolved. For the previous narrative, he has his narrative.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u257	We got you, Mr. Stakoura.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u258	Let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u259	I put it in the Minutes because you caught me. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But because you have been raped, and because you have not even read what you are signing, what I have already tabled, which is from the European Commission, it says that FTL has sent the government's proposal and you have not legislated. So you haven't even read what you signed. Now we're going to the point of the bill. As you can see, I'm testifying everything. You have not tabled a lead! Because you've just sent it all by e-mail. And I'm literally doing it all. Now we'll talk about supplies, now we'll talk about forecasts and guarantees. Why are you swinging the finger for the 12 billion guarantees when you gave for your day some fifty billion guarantees to the banks, because of Mr Varoufakis in 2015. And that's where you didn't have a problem, but you got 12. You don't have 50. The table year - year will also be tabled, too, slowly. Contrary to the previous SYRIZA government, the New Democracy Government is looking at the problems and is seeking to deal with them. The draft law under discussion confirms it. It is a draft law which is the result of methodical, intensive and hard work by my associates at the Ministry of Finance, which is the premier of the State Secretary of Finance, whom I want publicly to thank. It is the result of painful and persistent negotiations.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u260	And consultation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u261	And consultation. Did you see? I always answer you. Consultation with the institutions, with the competent national and European supervisory authorities - and with them - and with the Greek Banking Union - and with it - with the Greek banks - and with them - with the competent European Competition Authority - and with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u262	Where are the civilians?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u263	At first, did you only tell me about them? I'm telling you ten more and you're dislocating the scores elsewhere. Decide on what field you'll play on. You can't be political anemorrors, I've told you before. Decide on what field you'll play on. I tell you with competent domestic and supervisory authorities and you tell me only with them. I'm telling you ten more, you're telling me something else. So I answer everything. Thus, the ‘HRAKLES’ project does not constitute State aid, in accordance with the formal decision of the Directorate-General for Competition of the European Commission. And they have been incorporated, because I have read it today in the final draft law, most of the comments from the official opinion of the European Central Bank, which are, in any case, positive for the legislative purpose, since they were made to us in good time. What are the main predictions of the legislative strife? The Greek State's guarantee is granted to securitised non-performing loans, i.e. to banks' claims, excluding loans that are already guaranteed by the Greek State. Bank participation is voluntary. The guarantee may be requested when the conditions of the law are met. The guarantee relates to the safest part of the securitisations, i.e. the bonds prior to the repayment of interest and capital. These bonds must have received an assessment of at least BB from a recognised rating agency, and any second assessment must also satisfy minimum quality standards. To answer this question, which has been put to the committee, the draft law applies the European Commission's decision, which makes it compulsory to take an assessment by an authorised rating agency, which should be additionals recognised by the ECB, while at the same time providing for the possibility of obtaining a second assessment. As is laid down in the relevant Italian law, so do we. For the provision of the guarantee, the State receives an annual fee, calculated using a specific methodology, which locks at the time of the application for the guarantee. The Greek State's overall guarantee amounts to EUR 12 billion. From these guarantees, to answer this, the country, the state receives a commission just as it did for days of the previous government, when the public guarantees - due to the disastrous policy of the first half of 2015 - were launched. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall table a table. It's the painting showing how much money the Greek State took from 2008 onwards, starting from the famous then, if you remember - few were then in the Chamber - the law of Horsescouf. The law used by SYRIZA in 2015. Then what happened? The package was 28 billion, 5 billion preference shares and the rest of the guarantees. Do you know how far the guarantees have arrived for your day? It's up to 85 billion euros. Why? For the banks collapsed in the first half of 2015 and you had to ask for funding through commissions and guarantees. So don't you say 12 billion when you got the guarantees to 85 billion euros. Not to say that there is a risk, every year the Greek State received dividends from the first pillar and commissions from the second and third pillars. So you get dividends from the privileged shares, and you get a commission from the guarantees. Do you know how much the state has taken from 2008 to today? It's taken 5.2 billion euros. The Greek State has collected 5.2 billion euros of what started with a New Democracy government in 2008, continued and continued today. I submit the relevant table each year. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Another thing: the government in 2014, with a trunk of New Democracy and the participation of KINAL at the time, went and took the dividend from the first pillar, from the privileged shares, and entered the state budget. Do you know what you did next with Mr. Varoufakis? You reposed them because you didn't have any money. That's it to remember the past a little bit. The programme is eighteen months long. It may be extended if appropriate. The extension decision shall be taken in cooperation with the European Competition Committee. The procedure provides for two stages. The first provides the public guarantee and the second guarantees enter into force. This makes it easier for all concerned to participate, without discrimination, in more and less prepared terms, as long as the securitisation plan is at a relatively mature stage of implementation. At the same time, the public guarantee is only activated when it is found that all the conditions for it have been met. If within 12 months of the granting of the guarantee, the bank concerned fails to complete the securitisation and does not fulfil the conditions of the law in order to bring the guarantee into effect, it shall cease to apply. The management of the securitised loans is entrusted by the Bank of Greece to a manager who must be independent of the securitisation credit institution. Data, such as previous returns or management of the administrator, are made available to the rating agency, which ensures the choice of a sound and effective administrator. A Guarantee Monitoring Committee shall be set up, involving DPRK, Bank of Greece and the Ministry of Finance. The State shall ensure continuous monitoring of operators’ performance and shall have an early warning system in the case of late redemptions or for the risk of a guarantee being obtained. At the same time, the monitoring of the implementation of the overall programme shall be entrusted to an independent supervisor appointed by agreement of the European Commission. This will ensure overall and objective monitoring of the proper implementation of the programme, for the benefit of all those involved in it. Finally, there are additional security differences for the protection of the public, such as, for example, the possibility of postponing the payment of part of the administrator’s remuneration if it fails to achieve the agreed objectives or the possibility of postponing the payment of part of the coupon to the holders of the medium-term full-time bonds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u264	Minister, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u265	Mr President, I shall conclude. According to assessments by credit institutions of domestic supervisory authorities and European supervisory authorities, the implementation of this draft law is expected to lead to a significant reduction in bank non-performing exposures, estimated at more than EUR 30 billion or more than 40% of red loans. To understand the size and importance of the project, with this systemic solution it is estimated that a reduction in red loans will be achieved higher than the reduction achieved over the last four years. With a systemic solution we look forward to having a higher reduction in red loans than was the case throughout the SYRIZA government. The main aim of the financial staff and the entire government is for banking institutions to become a lever for the development of the real economy. The necessary rapid and rapid reduction in red loans over the next few years is for the Greek Government - I would say for the Greek economy - a major challenge, perhaps the biggest challenge. The management of the problem will be able to unlock the relaunching of the credit expansion, which is so important for high, sustainable and sustainable economic growth. It will result, inter alia, in the realisation of new investments, the attraction of foreign investments, the use of energy resources in the economy, the improvement of the country's worthy. It will provide solutions to borrowers that meet the actual repayment capacities, but in a fair manner for consistent borrowers. For these reasons, the immediate promotion and early implementation of this systemic solution is a priority for the Greek Government, a government that demonstrates by closing in 2019 once again that it implements its commitments where others did not dare. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u266	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty students and students and three educational attendants from the 3rd Grade Argostoli. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty-six students and students and four educational sessions since the 5th Patras High School. The House welcomes you. Ladies and gentlemen, now how do we continue: Mr Loverdos has asked for a minute's speech and immediately thereafter for a minute - all right, the minute is two-minute - Mr. Janakopoulos...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u267	Mr. President, let me close...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u268	Wait a minute, Mr. Comrade. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Then Mr. Bukokouros will take the floor. After Mr. Boukokoro, Mr. Karathanasopoulos follows, after Mr. Karathanasopoulos, Mr. Loverdos and Mr. Loverdos Mr. George Tsipras and then Mr. Heitas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u269	Mr President, may I have the floor on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u270	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u271	Excuse me very much, but there's no ping pong special here. It's said that one minute will be two minutes and there will be a response. From this point of view, Mr Loverdo, I do not have intentions, but the usual practice is this and in the one minute that we go to two, three, the Minister answers, ten, and so it is a ping pong. This cannot continue, as has now been done with the Minister's speech, which has been a constant holiday, answers, resentments, all these issues. There's got to be a line to get a process like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u272	I agree with you, which is why I said the order. Now, on the basis of the speakers, if all we have said goes, we have four speakers left and, of course, the respective Parliamentary representatives, not four, but Mr Bougas and Mr Gregoriadis, who do not see him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u273	They left.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u274	So we don't have Mr. Gregoriadis. So here we go. Take note of what Mr Karathanasopoulos said and please for a minute, and if he needs an answer very soon, the Minister will take the floor. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u275	As you have done, Minister, the urgency procedure, too many questions will remain in the Chamber and when you leave and vote on the draft law. It was really unjustified for you to choose because time was and there was. So we have been able to revert to information sources ourselves, so that we can put ourselves in place. For example, without knowledge of the opinion of the European Central Bank, no Member can speak here. You didn't share it with us. You did not have the conversation as you should have done it, so the Scientific Service of the House makes a reproduction of thought rather than penetrating the meanings of the draft law. When can they make it? And here we have to ask you a question now - and with this I am closing down - which is a question for the Standing Committee, it is not a question for a plenary. Let's go to Article 2. These are the definitions: ‘Adjustment of claims means transfer of claims’, note now, ‘including claims at temporary or final delay or settlement...’. ‘Including’. The question arises, which is a reasonable question: does the packages include healthy loans? Is it, however, for the plenary to have such matters resolved, Minister? Is it your wording here, or is it another the essence of the answer you're going to give us now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u276	Mr. Janakopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u277	I should like to be forgiven by the MPs. I'll try not to abuse time. I will speak for a minute, because I think there are some of the answers that have been received by the Minister, who has been put here with great pity, repeating things he has said dozens of times, in the previous plenary because he actually does nothing but repeat one and that speech. He's, like, incorrigible. After having opposed for about eighteen - nineteen minutes to SYRIZA, considering that they are still in opposition, then he read us the explanatory statement of the bill and did not choose to answer any of the main objections and the main remarks made by SYRIZA and the other speakers on the part of the Opposition. So I very soon, because I expect to hear an answer about the New Democracy strategy of protecting the first home and whether it prepares a plan that will replace the transitional - I repeat - first home protection plan that was tabled a few months ago and which was extended by the Minister in its decision until April 2020. So, do you have a plan that will replace first home protection after April 2020 or is this over? We want a clean answer, so that we can compare and say that from our side we had a comprehensive strategy for dealing with red loans...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u278	Where is he?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u279	...which included protection of the first residence. So I expect him to tell us what the government intends to do after April. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Secondly, it did not respond to the specific conditions of transparency in relation to the actions of the services and if it intends to introduce specific conditions in the bill for how the services will inform not only the Greek Parliament, but the whole of the citizens, in relation to their actions for the restructuring of the loans or if there we will have a black box in which no one will have access. In conclusion, I should like to say that Mr Stagiras obviously got the guarantees of the Greek State, which were given to guarantee liquidity to the Greek banks through ELA, with the guarantees that are now given for the securitisation of loans, namely, for things that have nothing to do with each other and yet, for reasons relating to the misleading of Mr Stakouras to the Greek citizens, he chooses to confuse them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u280	Minister, you have the floor. Are you going to catch up in five minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u281	I need a minute, Mr President. First of all, I have tabled tables that you have asked me for because you see them for the first time and then you tell me that I repeat myself. On the one hand, you say to me'submit tables, because we do not know them' and on the other hand you say that I repeat them. Decide what's happening. Second, I'd like to submit new evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u282	Minister, you are not in the mood to have a serious conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u283	You told me to talk. I was just listening. Please. New evidence. ‘2016 budget, signature Mr Tsakalotos. Development 2014 0,7.’; Mr. Poppa, to see what you're signing. I'm presenting it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u284	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u285	Now you're taking me to another year!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u286	Excuse me, I'll tell both the Minister and you. We should have a conference based on the results achieved by ELSTAT for too long and say why it and that. There's nothing coming out that way.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u287	Second note: Transitional stage your law does not write anywhere. Be honest with Greek citizens. No more delusional. First home protection is finished 31-12-2019 by your law. By your law!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u288	What are you going to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u289	There was no word "transitionality" anywhere in the law. So you're...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u290	We said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u291	Did you say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u292	Five hundred times.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u293	And why didn't you legislate?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u294	Now you're going to have a conversation again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u295	December 31st. Last comment: Mr Janakopoulos, you are mistaken. Open the general government bulletin every month. I didn't talk about ELA, you said. I talked about bank guarantees. That's another chapter. The page published every month by the Ministry of Finance and for days distinguishes you. There are guarantees coming from 2008 and increasing, reaching 85 billion, and there is ELA. One more, the other one. But because you made it harder for you, then we didn't only have 85 billion, we had ELA, because of your first half of 2015 policy on guarantees. On the bailouts and ELA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u296	Didn't you have ELA?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u297	And, yes, we also had ELA. Of course, we had ELA. [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] And because you raised your hands in the summer of 2014, we had zero ELA! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm presenting for the record proof of zero ELA in 2014. We left zero ELA and you went up. That's the reality with evidence. And, sorry, but you're incorrigible.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u298	Minister, you did not answer Mr. Loverd's question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u299	They'll follow the technicians from the State Secretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u300	Now tell me, because Mr. Loverd's question is very serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u301	Mr President, I would like to reply to Mr Loverd's two remarks. On the one hand the opinion of the European Central Bank was posted, as you know, on Tuesday morning at the European Central Bank and we have all seen it at that time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u302	Is this how the House works? Are you posting me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u303	I gave it to you right now. The second point you raised in relation to Article 2 of the law, yes, you are right to read it. The risk-weighted exposure amount of assets that are exposures to credit institutions shall be reported in column 060 of this row. For example, you have a red consumer loan - card - and you have an update on business.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u304	When it's not?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u305	So the wording is right in law, because it includes both cases of loans that will go...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u306	Minister, only when it has an unserved and serviceable or can it be a loan that has no service problems?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u307	No, a loan that's gonna be on its own and no problem, you don't, because it's not problematic.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u308	Excuse me, Minister, I can ask a question, why am I voting, and I want to understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u309	Not from the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u310	Wait a minute, Mr. Bukowo. You know, we know, too, that once a bond is formed, it starts to travel on its own. I would like to ask: in the bonds to be formed in the banks, will they be included not only by itself, but also by loans in general, say, to the thousand loans containing a bond, non-serving loans and subsistence loans? A yes or no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u311	Obviously, Mr President, I have also explained to Mr Loverdus' question and to you that, yes, if it is the borrower who has an unpaid loan, he may also have a serviceable loan. Only in that case.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u312	Good, it's clean. Mr. Bukkoros has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u313	For the time economy, I will speak from my position, Mr President. After all, it is five minutes and it is provided for in the Rules of Procedure. I do not honestly know what my position has to add after the extensive analysis of the Minister of Finance, both for today's legislation and for the historical regression that the Minister of Finance has attempted both for the creation of red loans and for the protection framework for first residence. In spite of the explanations given by Mr Staikoras and Mr Zavvos, a grief operation for the Greek borrowers has now been launched, especially on the issue of first residence. It is clear - you were provoked by the Minister of Finance - that no protection was provided for by the legislative framework of the SYRIZA after 31 December 2019. Today comes the government, it extends the protection framework until April and you come here under this terrorism policy to force the government to say what it will do next, as if all the framework for gradual protection of the first residence in Greece were never announced in that country. That's what you're doing. You play with words. Which government has announced an institutional framework for protection? We don't grant SYRIZA a monopoly. The Minister reminded you of something that has been forgotten in this Chamber. The first government to establish a protective first residence framework in Greece was the government of Kostas Karamanlis in 2008, and not only this, but also a guarantee of deposits, if you remember well, of EUR 100,000 in each code. So we do not grant a monopoly on sensitivity. Then came and bolted the Katseli bill and all the rest of the protective framework in it. When did that happen? Because Timing in politics but also in the economy plays a very big role. When was the first protection of residence and deposits in Greece? In 2008, when - allow me the expression, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA - we had not taken to Greece about exactly what the consequences of the global crisis will be and what it will be burdened with and how it will affect an unprotected, weak economy in an open and globalised economy, such as the Greek economy, which in fact, as we have seen, was affected at a very large depth. All we want to ignore, as if we live in another country, as if we were talking in another room. We're saying the same thing. We understand the other thing. Why am I saying that? Because we all recognise the problem of red loans. But it comes here, especially the Civic Opposition, but also other parties today and baboon against the project "HERAKLIS" saying it's just for the banks. But they're not suggesting anything else. Didn't you make a commitment to the lenders that you would bring legislation to curb red loans? Did you bring it? You didn't bring it. To remind you of another saying coming a little more left than you, 'you did not cause'. That's what you're telling us today. You didn't catch one, you didn't catch the other, you didn't get to catch up with ENPIA. Let's not have an election to make until October. Let's not have elections. I can only clear up two essential things. No loans, ladies and gentlemen. We must understand that. For sale, the bond guaranteed by the loan. It doesn't change the relationship of the borrower with the loan. We all agree that we are living in the only European country with a 'banking' system, because that is what this is all about. We don't have a banking system. So the question arises? What are we doing? Do we do a banking system or not? In a free economy, we live, in a globalised economy, the choice is ours. And the government says 'we are making a banking system'. Why are we doing a banking system? Why are banks selling money today? They're not selling. "Abanking" is the system, so that they can sell money and raise the economy. Do you have any other way of suggesting magic? In other words, bailing against a bill with very technical characteristics is easy, because the general public doesn't understand us. But proposing a solution to what is going to be done is very difficult and that proved to be not in today's debate but in the four previous years you have been in an absolute weakness of legislating. I would also say something else to you in the context of the terrorism you have done today against fellow citizens who are in a weakness. First of all, no government's right to further legislate is waived. It is also the 'HRAKLIS' project and the legislative framework that exists for the first residence and for loans. And secondly, you should not forget and miss out to you that the Greek banking system has already consented to the protection of borrowers and especially first homes, since you know that for some time now the first residence has been protected from the current provisions that we extended until April, but also the banking system of the country keeps the code of conduct and keeps the code of conduct, and there are guarantees that it will be respected now, since we are re-establishing the banking system without a new burden on the Greek taxpayer. Why the three previous recapitalisations? The Greek taxpayer paid. And what was the worst recapitalisation? It was the 2015 recapitalisation of SYRIZA, which nullified the bank portfolio that was a portfolio of the Financial Stability Fund, i.e. the Greek citizens, as the Minister very well explained to you just before, and that is the money of the Greek people. What are we doing today? We are doing a reduction in the banks without the Greek citizen being charged new money and it is, in fact, like returning to him something from the lost money of the lost recapitalisation of SYRIZA. This is what the New Democracy Government is doing to relaunch the economy, because without this reopening, neither the businesses nor the economy nor therefore the society are saved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u314	Mr Karathanasopoulos has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u315	Thank you, Mr President. The government is clear. The aim of the HERAKLIS project is to restructure the banks, not chew its words. And how will this resolution of the banks come about? Through the reduction of non-performing loans, through the exemption of financial institutions from red loans, a large part of red loans. Why does the government pursue this? Not only the current but also the previous governments have sought this with the management of red loans, because this will increase liquidity in the market, finance investment, provide new loans. So all this for the management of red loans and the consolidation of banks is part of the strategic option of supporting capitalist development, an unjust development that makes the richest and the poorest, providing land and water to businesses, exacerbating the position of workers and the rest of the populace. What is the instrument of banking resolution? The securitisation of red loans and, indeed, with a state guarantee. This plan, which the government now brings for discussion and approval, of course, is not lightning in hunger. He's stepping on the ground that SYRIZA government set up. Because it was exactly what the previous government had done with it. And how does he step on it? It runs on the gradual lifting of the protection of first residence, the gradual eruption of the Katseli law that provided limited protection in the first place. That's what goes down. And he broke up at SYRIZA. It also steps on the SYRIZA government license of the various funds - cords said them over the old days - so that the red loans can be managed. It is on the acceleration of the auctions in SYRIZA government, and indeed in the introduction of electronic auctions, so that they can be shielded by popular reactions, by the reactions of the People's Movement to protect the first home. So here has the previous government and today finds it ready to move forward and take a step further. One of the prisoners. Secondly, what do we have with this bill? We have a karabinat in support of the banks. And this state support to the banks comes after multiple state support through recapitalisations, through guarantees, through deferred tax. Now we have the state guarantee in the securitisations of non-performing loans. And all this happens when the banks reveal and their real face, the anti-government person, when they're moving on to redundancies. For this very reason, because banks are moving on to redundancies, the government comes and rewards them with the plan 'HERAKLIS'. That's not challenging, they don't put anything on! In the morning, when the JRC's topical question on redundancies from Piraeus Bank was being discussed, the Minister was in touch with his hands. It says that there is a specific legislative framework and that the state cannot intervene in private enterprises as to how they organise their work and ban redundancies. Here, indeed, is a challenge, when the state, the taxpayer, is essentially, because it is not vague, the people's mortgages that raise taxes, support and finance the banks' sweat and blood. The government, he says, can't intervene to get the bank back the redundancies and withdraw them. We're doing, he says, consultation. And what's the result? These twenty-one workers remain fired. In this respect, what does the government say? It says another thing, that this state guarantee is guaranteed, it is not going to be to the detriment of taxpayers. Really? And then the General Accounting Office of the State in its report why does it say that there may be an expense of 12 billion, once these state guarantees are not served? So, after the EUR 44 billion of the first and second recapitalisations, which have been charged to taxpayers, we now potentially have another EUR 12 billion to be charged to taxpayers as well. No one's blocking this thing. Even the General Accounting Office of the State does not exclude it, and it may be more, because with a decision of the Ministerial Council 12 billion can be increased. But, over here, the Minister, the government in general, what does he say? Don't worry, the guarantee is not going to be forfeited, because they are guaranteed. Guarantees are given to high collateralised bonds securitisations. Really, what are these loans, Minister, of high assurance? Is it the mortgage loans that are almost all housing loans? What are you talking about, then? That safeguarding the state guarantees depends on the course of bond securitisation. In other words, if this securitisation goes well, red housing loans will be served or auctions will be increased. In essence, you say that the death of the overdue household is the guarantee for the state that it will not lose its money. So you're telling the highly indebted people's household to choose how you want me to slaughter you: Do you want me to slaughter you as over-debted, do anything to save your home, or do you want as a taxpayer, stirring you up on taxation and losing your home at the same time? That is the state safeguard you have. In this respect, therefore, this safeguard is directly related to the progress of secured loans, i.e. housing loans, which will be an increase in the pressure on overdue households and an increase in auctions. If anything confirms this, it is what you said at yesterday's committee meeting, Minister, that the investors are waiting for it. So what? Really, why are investors waiting for this? Who are you with? With the "dollars" or with the people? With the "dollars", investors. Why are investors waiting for this? Because they want to win, investing in the securitisation of their red loans, investing their overdraft funds there. To what end will they invest them? To win, not for their mother's soul. So how will investors win? Investors will win through speculation and attack on people's needs. And you reward this with the plan "HARAKLIS", creating an even more suffocating framework. This is a good thing to open up a parenthesis. Why the red loans? And we are talking about housing loans, about loans from professionals, self-employed, farmers. Let us leave the business outside, which is another charge, and I will explain why I say that. Why? It is precisely because of the anti-grassroots policy, because of the memoranda, the people's family, the professionals and the farmers. It is obvious, therefore, why they were in a weakness to be able to serve their loans. Of course, the loan flood at the beginning of 2000 was not accidental. It was a strategic choice of the banks with the encouragement of the governments to do what? In order to manage the overcompensated funds, which would give an extension to the manifestation of the capitalist crisis. But the crisis has not been prevented. The capitalist crisis has come much more acute. So the people's layers resort to lending, so that they can meet their needs, because they cannot, whether they are housing or professional, through their work. In other words, people's strata are resorting to the nipple of bank borrowing. Because, of course, it is not the blessing loan, it is the noose. And from this point of view, what are the banks doing? Banks, on the one hand, are literally robbing people's savings, banks are making use of government guarantees and government funding, banks are robbing with loans the sweat of the people's, professionals and farmers, with the loan nostrils, and at the same time they are subsidising with warm money, foreign money, large business groups, large business loans, because exactly the conditions that big businessmen are getting these loans from the poor conditions they get from the people, the guarantees, mortgages, the high interest they pay for. One businessman said, "we took the loans so in the air, just by name, without any safeguard and guarantee." From this point of view, it is no accident that these same banks proceed to brave business loan haircuts. The examples are specific and well-known. Of course, the anguish of all parties and the government, in order to exalt the banks, is obvious and understandable, because banks, the financial system, are the heart of the capitalist system, the blood account donor. But Mr. Undersecretary yesterday said something else, very nice. In other words, he said that through this way the Greek citizen will benefit from the HARAKLIS project in general, and at that time I think of a song of Nionus, which I will say now. The song of Nonius is “the song to the company”. I will say it 'the hymn towards the bank'. Thank you, o bank, in abundance, you provide me with shelter, food and protection. Thank you, bank. It is revealing the government's concerns and attitudes. But the one who took the money from the table who took the banka and lifted it with him at today's meeting was Mr. Varoufakis. There may have been reasons for tearing out tears over there and doing analyses, but in essence this proposal, which ensures a thousand percent of the banks, is the proposal Varoufakis. What does the proposal say, Baroufakis? She's awesome! Listen to what he says: THE MERA25 proposal is a unique, rational and fair solution. The establishment of a public private debt management company, where red loans are transferred by banks. That is to say, it relieves the banks of red loans, transfers them to a public company, and they will incur the management of these red loans, whether the taxpayers or the borrowers, while maintaining the dock, and the banks will be free from the red loans, and here they go out and we're played with it! And yet, he made the generous proposal that the government can't make either. I don't dare the government to do it. But the rabbit, Barofakis, comes to make this proposal that serves the interests of the banks. In fact, I do not know whether this is related - I wonder out loud - to the fact that an important part of the shares of the Greek banks is in the hands of American funds. I don't know if all these facts are random. Well, the JRC's proposal, and I would like to finish with it, and I thank you, Mr President, for this, to be clear, because two watermelons, says our people, do not fit under the same arms: to pay the shareholders. And pay banks' shareholders through the brave haircut of housing loans, professional loans, farmers' loans. Didn't they know when shareholders came to SYRIZA's third recapitalisation that there are these red loans? Why are they here? Did SYRIZA guarantee them, the government will take care of them? And you go on with this today, too? I don't understand! They took the risk. So to pay. That's the way it is. To be able to raise the debtd households, the shareholders must pay and not pay the people in the way you do. This is the JRC, and in this regard we will insist. So the only way to alleviate the high-priced households, so that the permanent mortgages, the popular layers, through taxation, are not to pay the banks' shareholders for the highly indebted people's households. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u316	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr Stavros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u317	Mr President, I would like to table a series of legislative improvements to this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u318	Thank you, Minister. I would ask that they be distributed. Now Mr. Loverdos has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u319	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law called for by the National Representation today at a meeting to vote is really difficult for someone who does not know the data of the banking system well, because it regulates issues of the banking system itself, the red loans, which is a matter of extreme social content, at a time when the market is thirsty for liquidity. After ten years of crisis, there is no proper liquidity. It is a problem that also concerns the management of 70 billion non-performing loans that remain - perhaps a little more - and the realisation of the course that had this problem for Greece. In December 2014, 43.5% of non-performing loans were non-performing, problematic loans. In December 2016, we had peak, a peak of 48.5%, mediated not only by the first semester of the Tsipra government with Mr. Varoufakis, but also by the rest of the period until 2016, when we were at the top of this huge problem. On the other hand, the Hellenic Republic is trying to answer at least as far as the issues of the first residence are concerned, the issues of red loans in general, but the first residence that is most interested in social terms. The table given today by the Minister of Finance shows us that by December 6, 2019, 50 cases are the total number of applications for which the applicant has accepted the overall proposal to regulate financial institutions. Too small. So, ladies and gentlemen, we have a problem that the previous government has not solved and the maintenance of the shape of the previous government by April does not guarantee, on the basis of the figures we have, something better in this problem. So we have all three hundred, in addition to our ideological political differences, to deal with this issue, which is a set of issues and not an issue in itself, so that we can put it across and look at how to solve it. The technical aspect of the problem is very serious. I happened yesterday to hear the Secretary of State at his last speech in the Standing Committee and left with the need to read in order to understand why I did not understand from his speech. It's not his fault, it's my fault. But the problem is not just about a Member of Parliament, it is about the person who has to sit down to read, so that he can respond to the seriousness and circumstances and the subject. Because we may say what we want here, we are free, but there are some people who know things and listen to us. And the question is that our positions should not be hampered against them. Each speaker has the presumption of seriousness from the major step of the Hellenic Republic that this is. But it's not enough. He has to confirm it. What helped me? Obviously, the opinion of the European Central Bank, to be serious, is a text which I have of course identified on my own initiative. He says the Undersecretary has been posted since Tuesday. Thank you very much. It does not exist in the parliamentary material. As we know, the opinion of the Parliamentary Scientific Office is being tabled on the occasion of the vote in plenary on a draft law and in an urgent procedure for people to be able to do so? It is therefore up to every Member to be able to respond to the quality of the problem which is extremely serious and difficult for a Member who does not have the expertise to understand. Look, we lawyers have an obligation to understand, because the cases we need to deal with are not all similar, so we have to have the method of penetrating the agenda. And I ask: why did you not give the Standing Committee the opportunity with a number of meetings to understand what the matter is? Plenary with one is all right, but the Standing Committee is working on the draft laws' Rules of Procedure. What would you mind? The urgency does not arise with regard to the date of the vote, since the application may also be retrospective, to go a little backwards. In October, isn't your application going anyway? What would we mind? Government energy is incomprehensible. The rapporteur's report, ladies and gentlemen, does not help us. One page is the report, its overall part that allows you to understand what you're talking about. It is the first page of the explanatory statement. Then we go to the articles. Acquisitions and political positions. Firstly, we as a Change Movement have a different philosophy from the one followed by the previous and the current government to resolve the issue of red loans and Mr Michal Katrinis has extended to our proposal. I don't want to repeat. I will be content with reading a phrase, that the Change Movement reintroduces the proposal we have made since '17 to protect the first home for weak borrowers for at least one year on the basis of Law 3863/2010 and with the additional possibility for borrowers to buy their loans from the banks before they come to the market. Secondly, we find ourselves in our position. The opinion of the European Central Bank contains very useful elements. Have you accepted them? Have you included them? Before we close, I want you to tell us: there are questions contained in footnotes and suggestions in its own opinion. Thirdly, there are four powers in the draft law. In Article 17(6), I see no problem. Article 14 contains authorisations to the Minister for the Resolution of Issues under Article 1, but Article 1, ladies and gentlemen, refers to the purpose. So what's your authority to do what? Secondly, in Article 2, where definitions are, I wonder: Authorization to do what in definitions? In Article 4, which refers to restrictions, we have a matter. Restrictions have to do with banning the public from making investments. It specifically mentions them. Mr Arvanitides will tell you where our argument is, that is, when the public is allowed to act as an investor in relation to our point of view. But it gives you authority without mentioning the agenda and criteria. Get to the containment issues. But what can you do? Do you want to limit them? You want to raise them? That's unconstitutional. It's a matter. You will fill it out with issues relating to phrases related to the criteria that will allow this legislative mandate to be a constitutional authority. You also authorised yourself to change the amount of 12 billion - in Article 6(1) - and the time of the extension of the programme, as the Italians did - to Article 6(2) - that I do not see having problems with. I'm obviously not overreacting. Fourthly, we want to say that, as has been pointed out many times, the transfer of the problem from the banks is liberating and helping, but it does not solve the problems for those who are untapped. Let us make that clear. We are not making the mistake of not knowing what we are talking about today. Today, we are discussing this programme. That's what we're talking about. I don't slip into mistakes that relate to my ability to understand. However, I cannot fail to point out that we are talking about this. We're pointing the matter. And we only have fifty cases that have come under the SYRIZA platform. Fifth, the Bank of Greece tells you that part of the problem is dealt with by this programme. Good - he says - for this matter, for this place. But what about the whole thing? What do you have in mind? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr Minister, I will close with the President-in-Office's permission, making this point, which I think is very useful: Of the 75 billion in problem loans, you carry 30 billion. Now there's 45 left. If that's the number, you can tell us. If some people succeeded on their own and reduced the percentage of unserved people, find out what their percentage is. In general, however, there are portfolios of small and large companies operating in the area they show - to be fair - that there is a market in this area. There is a particular market that can also be dynamic. I don't know. There is the good news that from what we read - if it is possible now to read them by looking into the press, here we are a Parliament - they are more easily located through these transfers of these requirements, the strategic poor payers. How does that turn out? If they're spotted and pressed, they pay. Strategic poor payers are not our problem. Our problem is the weak. Moreover, there is - I will admit it - the lack of moral risk. You don't infect healthy loans that are served by avacants to those who don't pay. Now, we're going with this problem to target another 30 billion, if I read well. Yes, but the experience gained from the first 30 billion shouldn't we have known her? Do we have to go back to the newspapers and see what's happened? So why bothered you with a conversation with the operators, where we would also invite some of these companies that have a big portfolio? One has 13 billion. In other words, we must read the report by the director-general of the relevant company, which is a subsidiary of the Bank of Attica, which says that of the 70 million investment, it has already received 60 million. That's good. But is that the climate? What have the others done? This is a very small part of the problem. What is the overall picture? It's a mistake we didn't hear that. Only if you apply what the State Secretary said every month to let us know, we can cover the ignorances that the legislator is not allowed to have when voting for this. All right with the eighteen months of application. So that starts right away. We'll be able to control it if you come. For the governments in Parliament are saying good words, but in practice they are forgotten. But there are also possibilities for renewing. Already, the Minister takes this as responsibility, to be able to extend. And I told you that this delegation has no problem. It is enough for us to hear the Italian example that it has succeeded and that it has two renewals, so do we also have to identify the markets and say that things will go well here too? That is not a very reasonable idea for a Parliament. She's inadequate. In any case, to conclude, this programme will be judged in practice by its effectiveness. It remains, however, the great problem of people who cannot serve their loans. I'm not saying you're here today to regulate this. So far, however, the legislative framework for this huge issue remains the law of SYRIZA which has been extended for four months, and in April, if it extends until then, the government should already have intervened to see the next time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u320	Mr. George Tsipras has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u321	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to make two, three comments on what Mr Stavrou said because of a lack of time. First of all, he said about the fact that our Minister for Finance signed this bill in an older form. So let me say that Mr Zavvos in committee yesterday, he said: 'Substantially, the previous government had started a project, but it was not in any form like this plan, which we negotiated and completed'. Rather, you need to talk to each other, find them and tell us your position at some point. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] Secondly, Mr Staikoras like other ministers likewise likes creative accounting. But the numbers are relatively relentless. You can all see the course of red loans from 2010 to 2015. It is an upward trend from the 14 billion to 106 billion and in 2015, in that catastrophic year, as you tell us, the descent begins. They're clearly the numbers. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, George Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Moreover, since 2015, since the program of reduction started, we have been within the targeting of SSM. And everyone knows that. It's been written dozens of times in the papers. It doesn't make for other things to be said. But what was extremely outrageous by Mr. Stakoras is that he talked about a breakdown of the banking system from our devastating policies in 2015, when your own officials - and first Mr. Georgiadis - and before 20 January 2015 he called on Greek depositors to withdraw the deposits. A little friendly! This has never happened before, not in the Migration, but in the entire political history, to call on Greek depositors to withdraw the testimonies. Some apologies should be requested. I'm actually coming. There have been three recapitalisations by which Greek taxpayers and in total the Greek people who suffered the Memorandum Measures took the burden of the banking crisis. However, the banks - and to be more precise, the bankers - did not respond as they had to, and bear a large share of responsibility for the fact that in previous years, there has been no active treatment of the issue of red loans in such a way that a large part - not all - of indebted businesses and property owners could cope with lame loans, saving businesses and residences, but on the other hand, banks themselves could benefit more from what we would have achieved in a systemic, as is said, a solution like the current government's attempt. It would be a win win situation for both banks and borrowers, but perhaps not for bankers. Not only this, but the way they handled the issue was completely opaque, even for the Bank of Greece. In recent years, you may know that about 16 billion have been erased. What loans were written off, what they could get tired and not tired, does the Bank of Greece not even know about it. The only thing is that the loser throughout this process was small and medium-sized enterprises from that very deficit and thousands of small borrowers. That is the problem, first and foremost, of this bill. Mr. Zavvos said he didn't hear any suggestions. You're not right. Perhaps you could criticise proposals, but you are not right. At least from our side, from the SYRIZA side, we put four, five key issues. The Greek State will give 12 billion guarantees. It's about 6% of GDP. In fact, there has been a lot of mention from your rapporteur and from you that it will work just like a private person. And I ask, first of all, whether it works exactly like a private person, why are there no explicit obligations and obligations of the banks, if the objective is not simply to reduce red loans and also to finance the Greek economy? You said that's the target. Why are there no explicit commitments from the banks in the bill? The private - public, as you call it, is not intended to make a profit from the commissions of the guarantee letters. It is for some benefit to the Greek economy. Why does it not ensure this benefit by express commitments? Secondly, what commitment do you have to protect first residence after April 2020? None, but I'll come to that later. What provision is there within or outside of a draft law on the issue of viable enterprises, namely those that cannot serve their debts, but are non-injurious and therefore viable? Fourthly, what conditions of transparency are ensured, since the public is the one that puts the guarantees so that everything can be done in a transparent manner and that the Greek people, who puts the guarantees in fact, know that everything is done in a proper way? There is DENMARK. There are other committees and forms that you can use, so that the restructuring of loans is absolutely transparent and not as it was within the banks until today, only that we had a memorandum. And, finally, there is no provision for changing the corporate governance regime to the banks to make use of its public participation in them. There were proposals to that effect. Proposals have been made. If you covered these conditions and some other less value, we would have no problem making constructive proposals and being together. But you don't cover any of them. Not only do you not cover any of them, but your intentions to do what will eventually happen with the HERAKLIS project are relatively obvious from a number of statements made by government officials. I am starting with the Prime Minister's financial advisor in an interview with BLOOMBERG. After saying that it is 50% of the target of red loans to be covered by the plan "HRAKLIS" - the percentage goes up - the journalist asks him: "What about the other 50%?" And his answer - he obviously also covers the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, his advisor - is that with a new bankruptcy code bankruptcies will become much faster, so also the auctions, for natural persons and businesses. What is the conclusion on the intentions of the government and Mr Mitsotakis himself? It is the lifting of protection of the first home, its limitation, of course, of a bankruptcy code - probably in the US standards - with fast-track auctions and liquidation. What's the most important thing here? It is that the HERAKLIS project itself is designed for your own part to serve precisely that perspective. There is a lot of optimism for the project itself, even as far as red loans are concerned. First of all, I should like to say to you - and you are obviously aware of this - that in a post "REUTERS" on November 5, 2019, a month ago, the negative results of "JACS" so far - the Italian "HARAKLI", let us say so - and it found that the restructuring of the loans is going slower than expected - the rating companies say - raising concerns about the future, etc. To support, I'll only tell you two clues. Only 9 billion were liquidated through this Italian mechanism, as against 41 billion which have been cleared outside the mechanism by the banks. But the juiciest one is next. Of the 52 billion red loans that have been reduced - there has been a certain restructuring in Italy - only 11 billion have been green. What happened to the remaining 41 billion? They've been rammed. Will this be the future of HERAKLE over here for small and medium-sized enterprises and residence?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u322	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u323	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. We have brought in a certain amount of financial engineering - which is what it was about - which was about to do with something else. We would obviously take down a very different bill. Or we'd take it down with other bills. It's like tools, you know. A screwdriver can screw a screwdriver, but a screwdriver can get eyes out. The question is, what exactly do you want to do? I think that results from the above. I'll come to something more important. The question is not simply that you have no social and development mark in how you download the project "HRAKLIS" with this bill. It is also a question, based on the information I read about the Italian example, if you are very interested in reaching a final result for the banks and the rest of the Greek economy. For the present small and medium-sized enterprises in debt and property owners, it is clear that we are going to a Armageddon. I would like to say to you, based on the fact that you do not put any commitment or obligation on the banks, that you do not seem to be interested either. You seem more interested in the business, which will become - and concerns very few companies - through the HERAKLIS project from the banks up to these few companies, rather than even the success of the HERAKLIS project itself. This is reflected not only in financial engineering, which we will be able to discuss under other circumstances, but also in the engineering of the government that has taken banks to the Ministry of Finance, in particular Mr Zavvos, with which there is a direct link from the Maximos Mansion, bypassing Mr Stakoura and the majority rapporteur, who was trying to convince us that no pillow and nothing else will be used and that he was the same person as a journalist who was the 'basketed International Monetary Fund', defending the International Monetary Fund against our country and, secondly, as a candidate for membership, precisely for the banks and on a prudent credit line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u324	You used my kindness. Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution Mr Konstantinos Hetas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u325	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say two things about the HERAKLIS project. Minister, I have listened very carefully to you all the time you have spoken. I'm trying to understand you. I will not say too much - it will be sacrificial - since there is Vassilis Viliaardos in our own parliamentary group. With his knowledge and his analysis, it would be like smuggling into his fields and I'd say nonsense. I'm just going to ask a question for the people watching us because we're a little lost today. That is the message that we need to go through, Minister, in the world that he hears from us. Does the red loan solution give the plan 'HERAKEL'? A man, in other words, who owes 100,000 euros by voting this bill today, is gaining something? Let now that more money is going to be put on the market, that the banks will resuscitate and he can also take advantage of it. Will he find a solution? I believe, Mr Minister, that the project 'HERAKLIS' is below the expectations of the Greeks. I also believe that the economic sacrifices of the Greeks cannot withstand any other experimentation. Because what is being attempted is another experimentation. I wish I could be disproved. I'm afraid I don't believe it. We'll have an auction evacuation in the next few years. That's the reality. Our proposal is specific. It was analysed and developed by Mr. Villardos earlier with the American system. What exactly are you trying to achieve? You'll be saved. Once again. the banks. I repeat: Is the Greek citizen, the bankrupt, the one with the red loan with the project "HERAKLIS"? You did not answer that question, because unfortunately the answer to you is 'no'. And you don't do what you have to do, because they don't let you do it, Minister, unfortunately. Because there is no sucker to lose his money - I mean from the bankers and those who control the system - nor are they going to leave the Greek people alone and calmly. They don't owe anyone a debt. They'll get us the medal to the end of it. That's the truth. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make two - three comments on some other issues. I'm going to go a little bit to Greek-Turkish. I have just read - and it is news today - that Ankara, Turkey - because these are the serious issues too - has submitted to the UN the coordinates of the agreement with Libya. This is a continuation of what we have been saying for two or three days since this Step, that we are continuing and creating data now and following events. I will make a proposal to all of you, especially to the rulers. Don't be in a hurry to celebrate. Diplomacy is not a sprint. Diplomacy is a marathon in a perverse field and has many traps. And unfortunately, in these traps, you're constantly falling into it. For example, when Turkey - and I said yesterday - is directly threatening our country, the Ministry of Education now gives permission to operate in three mosques in Kos and Rhodes. We come out with statements that you do not misinterpret our mild attitude. We lifted the Mirages in the Aegean Sea yesterday and we feel it with inflated breasts. We are also pleased that they are our partners, France, Italy, the United States, the European Union. He's not with us. Nor are they in favour of Turkey, but they are not in favour of Greece. It's in favor of their companies. They are in favour of their interests and will never be on our side if their own interests are affected. Turkey's negotiating weapon is neither S -400 nor nothing. One is: The illegal immigrants, whom they have there as a super gun and whenever they want to open the cliff and flood Europe and unfortunately Greece. Because, ladies and gentlemen, if the Turks go around, that's what they'll do, they'll open the cliff. I'm going to make a very small comment, because I've read it. Kyriakos Velopoulos said it was for my colleague, who I do not see here. What I would like to say is that they also reflect on the Members' face because he is a Member of the Greek Parliament. I am talking about the unacceptable statements he has made about the 'batches, pigs and murderers'. He now apologized at last and says it was a joke. You don't laugh at the term "pigs" or "killers". That is not funny and that is not the attitude of a man in this House. And he apologized and he regrets - he says - about the misinterpretation. There's no misinterpretation. It's her statements uploaded on the Internet. I will say one last, Mr President, I will only need one minute. Try to change the agenda in every way. I get it. In today's poll too, however, it came out - and I would like you to see it - that the number two after the unemployment issue with 42% of Greek citizens - to listen to them as Greek citizens - is illegal immigration. And Erdogan uses them, like I told you before. Because they're not refugees. They're illegal immigrants. I read that in Evros the illegal immigrants, who cross the border, are struggling with knives to residents to steal their vehicles. I'm filing it in the Minutes. It's a photo post. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In Ioannina, too, we have some peaceful immigrants who came to emblem in society, as Mr Mitsotakis says. Look over here, balls and socks. They got the people. Friends, too! It's police control over the hospitality structure, and they took the ballots off. I'll testify the photo in the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above photograph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's go down. We arrived in 2020 and we are talking about tuberculosis. The Greek Pulmonary Society says so. You know what he's saying? That it is a disease most affected by the most vulnerable groups of the population, namely refugees and immigrants. "Tradiation is not forgetting us, it is here." [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We're not talking in the air. You were so surprised if you were surprised. Let's go to the Municipality of Agias in Thessaly. People will listen to me. In the Municipality of Agias, in the village of Ano Sotiritsa - they are not! - which has fifteen Greek inhabitants, carried sixty illegal immigrants and established them in the village. It's awesome. Here's the report on the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And Kastelorizo -- which for some here doesn't belong to the Aegean -- emits SOS. burglary, invasion of churches from immigrants denounces residents. Here, I'm not talking about it. The residents are denounced. And what can I say about Lesvos, which, with the official figures, invaders have reached twenty thousand, and you continue to deal with the issue with prudence, carelessness and fear. What happened - I end up with that ultimatum in the non-governmental organisations? There was an ultimatum in the NGOs. What happened to the new counselor, Mr. Darling? Where is he? Since we saw her and the one who disappeared! What happened to those ships of the Prime Minister's friend shipowners who would ride to the Aegean to catch illegal immigrants? Listen to something. The solution is one. Whether you see it - why you copy it, at least copy it properly - and give a solution, or mock people. The solution is to close the border, close the NGOs and send them to uninhabited islands with structures for illegal immigrants. Simple as that! Do it so we can finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u326	Thank you very much. Mr. Constantopoulos has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u327	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today, the 'HRAKLIS' project, which is coming in the form of urgency, is about reducing the bank's unserved loans. And I'd say metaphorically it reminds us of August. In other words, you will be able to divest banks' balance sheets from red loans so that banks can increase their profitability. I mean, what? You are relying on the bad and anti-development state, Minister, to support the good - as you say - and development banks with a guarantee pillow for them, which is up to 12 billion. In fact - I would say here - that you are giving the Minister of Finance the right to increase the sum by his own exclusive decision and, in addition, without the Interministerial Committee of Guarantees being provided, without providing for procedures to guarantee a minimum of transparency, without an impact study on Greek entrepreneurship and without any support from the citizens concerned with the first housing of citizens. And all this without consulting the political parties and bodies, that is, fast track procedures. That's your result. However, Minister, you did not tell us how to ensure the interest of borrowers, what care you have for them. Let me remind you, according to the special private debt management secretariat, that applications exceed thirty-six thousand. The arrangements do not exceed fifty-five to sixty thousand. And for all of this, there is no answer at all. What was happening in the SYRIZA government - ANEL so now. We see that the same policy is going on. What policy? Politics in favour of banks. Ladies and gentlemen, we, the Change Movement, the PASOK, have submitted our proposal to the Greek Parliament with concrete solutions and proposals. And personally, I would remind you that from this step in March 2016, I mentioned that the borrowers of foreign funds should be preceded. That is to say, what they did in Cyprus, where the borrowers of foreign funds took the lead. That's really how the households saved and didn't take the houses to the fucking fingernails of the funds. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are once again reintroducing our proposal. And the amendment we tabled, Minister, we invite you to accept it. We suggest that: Re-establish Law 3869/2010 to protect the main residence and provide the possibility of buying the loans from borrowers before they are transferred to the management companies. Before, that is to say, the money market is opening up, the borrowers must take the lead. You can see it's the only solution. And I wonder, Minister, and Mr Ministers - who are absent - how you do not do so. In other words, to enable borrowers to negotiate at the price that the funds will buy their homes. After all, Mr Minister, I would remind you that after the abolition of the relevant provisions of the PASOK Act, of Law 3869/2010 by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government - and on your own responsibility, because you also voted for it - there is no protection from 1-1-2020. And that is what happens today that borrowers are unable to secure their obligations and lose their homes, especially when the loans are transferred to the funds. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we did not say 'no' to healthy banks. We say 'yes' to the balance of the system, but 'yes' to the fair demands of borrowers. Because they have heard from here for so many years in this Chamber and to remind you of SYRIZA's seismism until 'I don't pay'. In fact, they were perceptions that have made another picture in society. Some even believed that they would find the magic solution and the magic recipe. Some of them were collated in this "I don't pay" solution, and the result was to launch the red loans at 45% of the total loans and leave out of the Greek banking system for over 40 billion. The conclusions, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, are yours. Ladies and gentlemen, we say 'yes' to the armouring of banks, so that there can be sustainable solutions that will support our economy, but with a plan, with a strategy rather than a pretext. And here I would like to stand and stress that the Bank of Greece has characterised the "HRAKLIS" project as incomplete because the percentage of red loans is being launched, and that, Minister, should have taken you into consideration. How is it possible for the Bank of Greece to characterise the resolution of the project as "HRAKLIS" and you to insist? Also, the Greek banking system, ladies and gentlemen, needs effective proposals for the economy of our country, our country, our Greece again to be genuinely normal, something in which the project 'HRAKLIS', which you bring, does not respond. While the borrowers remain committed to the banks at the same time without any solution, which will put them out of the deadlock. However, this project does not meet the expectations of those in need, it does not meet the needs of households. That's why we, the Change Movement - PASOK do not agree with this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u328	Thank you, too. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr Ioannis Bougas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u329	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the science of visiting names! We're talking about red loans. What are the red loans? It is those in which the debtor is already recorded overtime in the performance of his obligations, or it is certain that he will not be able to repay them when he expires. I'm telling you this because it's about the law-grade rating. As you all know, in recent years as a result of the economic crisis, the number of non-persistent, red loans, in the definition I have given above, has spread to heights unthinkable. This has the effect of causing financial damage to banks, which now find it difficult to comply with the standards laid down by national and European legislation on their capital adequacy. I will not be used in technocratic reports that have already been heard in this Chamber. The evidence, however, is undeniable and unimportant. These loans amount to about EUR 72 billion, which has made the banking system powerless to support dynamic growth in the country. What is the unsolved reality? To date, it is known that three banking recapitalisations have been made with the known results. The dilemma put forward for us is clear. On the one hand, maintaining the current situation, as the opposition parties seem to support, or a radical and definitive solution. The first and most important restructuring step being taken today is with the draft law under discussion, involving EUR 30 billion of red loans. This is the first and only organised plan to date that can actually remove the risk and the great risk from banks and pass it on to the managers of the requirements, i.e. independent special-purpose companies following a process of safeguarding the public sector and under strict conditions which are clearly set out in Article 8 of the draft law. It is even recommended, because this issue has been overcome, that a special monitoring committee on the guarantees is involved in the continuing monitoring of the performance of managers, but also in the course of the guarantee legal relationship. Such independent and certified providers that are to manage the claims may renegotiate the terms of the loan with the same debtor at any time. The most important thing is that on the basis of the provisions of the draft law there is no budgetary burden. In other words, the bill will not be sought once again by Greek taxpayers or there will be State aid. After all, this is also the given fact that the European Commission and the central bank lighted the green light on the adoption of the draft law under discussion. For borrowers, because there was a lot of talk about them, what principle was followed by the government? First of all, this project concerns borrowers. But this is where the government followed the principle of first and foremost harmlessness, it is according to Latin primum non noon nocere. Are the borrowers hurt? No way. No adverse effect occurs for borrowers. Reports were made on the arrangements for the first residence. Regarding these arrangements, the SYRIZA government - and also SYRIZA as Opposition - had already given a clear signal of its policy. Those, I mean the political executives and MPs, who are lately shouting about the draft law under discussion, are the same who made the protection of the first home of the borrowers' political exploitation, starting with the well-known motto 'no house in the hands of a banker'. Today's Civic Opposition refused to take a responsible and serious decision as a government for almost five years because of the political costs involved, despite the pressure from the European partners. SYRIZA's rapporteur said that they set up their first residence. I'll remind you what you did for the first residence. First of all, I must tell you that we had an absolute and unconditional protection of the first residence until 31-12/2012. After the takeover of the government by SYRIZA, that is, since 2015, how was the first residence protected? Under conditions laid down in Law 3869, in fact, only for those who did not engage in commercial activities, i.e. for natural persons. Subsequently, in 2018, you legislated, ladies and gentlemen of Officerial Opposition, n.4512. It is the law that exclusively provided for auctioning by electronic means for the recovery of the debts of borrowers and even public debts. You are the first to adopt a legislative framework that enabled banks to make massive transfers of loans with Law.4354/2015, which governs the transfer of all kinds of claims from loans or credits granted by credit institutions, be they late or up-to-date. Today, SYRIZA only criticises, without suggesting. Because Mr Tsipras, who preceded this step, did not make any specific proposal at all. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the New Democracy dares and attempts to cut the gap that will finally bring about the needs and specialities of the Greek economy with regard to the effective removal of the banking system from the squabble of red loans. So the banks will perform the real role, that of refinancing the real economy as catalysts of long-term growth. With the Heraklis programme, which we are now called upon to vote on, it will not only be possible for companies to re-access to the capital market. It is not only an attempt to regain credit institutions and become competitive, nor is it just a matter of real investment that our economy so much needs. Our concern is to benefit the borrowers themselves, each Greek and every Greek, because the banks will rationalise their balance sheets and will gradually be able to finance business, small and medium-sized enterprises and households. Thus, they will improve their profitability while taking advantage of low interest rates. In the initial eighteen-month period of implementation of the programme, a reduction in red loans by EUR 30 billion is sought. This amount corresponds to approximately 40% of non-performing loans as recorded in the books and accounts of credit institutions. These forecasts are confirmed by the good practices of the outside world, which we are focusing on to create a substantial intervention that responds to modern economic developments. A corresponding programme - this has been said - is implemented in neighbouring Italy as early as 2016 and has been successful, considering that the Italian banks have decommissioned some EUR 60 billion in problem loans. Today, the proportion of non-performing loans in Italy is about 7.5% to 8%. Do you know how much the percentage in our country is? It's 40%.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u330	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u331	And because of the plan.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u332	Just a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u333	Here, therefore, is the priority which lies in the fact that Greece has not yet returned to an investment grade, and this further strengthens the success of the current government, which actively and adequately wants to solve a timely and major problem affecting the Greek economy. In the event of a collapse, the State will be charged with the amount due. However, the Greek State's guarantees cannot exceed EUR 12 billion. As an insurance policy, there is a condition that the guarantees cover only high collateral bonds, i.e. top tier loans according to valid rating houses. In addition, the possibility of postponing the payment of part of the administrator’s remuneration if it has not achieved the agreed objectives or postponing the payment to medium-term senior bond holders, even the possibility of replacing the manager on a conditional basis. In addition, these guarantees will only be activated after the sale of more than 50% of lower rating bonds has taken place. In implementation of the provisions of the bill, the Greek State will receive supplies on the basis of every guarantee it provides, which is calculated on the basis of the total amount of about EUR 200 million per year. If they are appreciated and overall evaluated, the benefit of public and Greek citizens is great. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the government's objectives are given priority: the resolution of the financial system. And that is the purpose of the draft law under discussion, which I invite you to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u334	The next speaker is Mr Amanatidis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u335	Mr President, Minister, Minister, first I should like to express - if I may say so - my congratulations on the documentation you have given in your previous speech, which was complete and substantiated. I also want to say that this draft law we know about it. It has also been said by everyone that it has a highly technically qualified character, and that is why I wondered whether I should analyse the draft law or whether I should have expressed my views in the form of questions. I preferred the second because I think it would be just as useful and because it is not used to it will be of interest. I would also say that this draft law and its content could have the title "Innovation in the service of the economy", because we saw that innovative tools and innovative processes are being developed. It appears, of course, that it focuses on banks and eventually serves Greek citizens from possible future capitalisation, i.e. banks, at the expense of non-performing loans, while not burdening them. It comes to be added to the patron of the Greek economy when it is in a dynamic re-start and there is a strong investment interest in positively performing securities. But what will be the result of its application? In view of the Greek State’s guarantee for the securitisations of non-performing loans, funds of the banks expected to be used to finance the real economy will be released, as mentioned earlier, which will in turn contribute to the creation of new well-paid and sustainable jobs. Why will the HERAKLIS programme contribute positively? Because until now banks have been operating at the expense of significant red loans which are a brake on their participation and active contribution to the growth of the economy, thereby working under reduced risk conditions. The Greek State's guarantee in the way provided for in this draft law will relieve them of the burden of red loans and create the conditions to finance the needs of companies for reorganisation and development. It is noted that the risk, i.e. the likelihood of a reduction of the guarantee letter, of the guarantee is significantly reduced for the Greek State as the guarantee offered is activated in the period already in existence. Next question: Is the ERAKLIS going to be charged to Greek taxpayers? The answer is 'no'. Why? Because the state guarantees up to 12 billion, which will be the safest part of this guarantee, as analysed earlier. What does the Greek State expect from its application? The mobilisation of the economy is expected, as we have said, by releasing the banks to finance sound economic activity, but, I would say, also to the citizens. The Greek State will receive the commission, which was mentioned earlier, which can also reach EUR 170 to EUR 180 million a year. Next question is whether this legislative initiative by the Government takes into account all the factors that will make it sustainable. The answer is clearly 'yes'. It has the approval of the competent bodies of the European Commission, it has the approval of the banking agents, it is consistent with the initiatives for banking union and the association of capital markets. It is not the public's burden, as I mentioned earlier, on the contrary it adds revenue. It liberates resources that can be directed to the real economy and mobilise slow or lethargy market forces. It creates a climate of diversification of the banking system. There is also provision that it does not include loans that are already guaranteed by the Greek State. The answer to the question, if all banks will be involved, is that participation is voluntary and if the banks meet the conditions set by the programme. Regarding the programme's contribution: It has been mentioned earlier that it can contribute up to 30 billion, i.e. about 40% of the red loans, which means that a corresponding part of the economy for growth will be liberated. What is now the main prerequisites for the implementation of the programme, as well as the expected consequences: firstly, the relaunching of the Greek economy and the confidence of the markets in the country as a country that is constantly upgraded, the reduction of borrowing interest rates, the policy change that works favourablely, the change of psychology in the market, how much more so when, with the effective implementation of the programme, the possibility of recapitalising the banks is removed, all of this is regulated in this draft law and, of course, the liberalisation of the banks will lead them even more easily to the creation of new products and new markets. I would also add by closing that the one-way for the protection of Greek citizens, borrowers, makes us more ingenious. This example, the further capitalisation of the banks should be prevented, however, when it would be possible to do so with resources from Greek citizens. The supply of the market with the necessary resources to mobilise it is a one-way road that we should read by the end. The liberalisation of resources for the needs of the real economy will make a productive contribution to the development of the country, so that only the numbers will prosper. To conclude, let me say from my previous concern with the issues of planning and implementing development that the multiplier positive effect on growth will arise from what we do not understand at first glance, i.e. it is innovative, as in this case the 'ERAKLIS' programme requires cooperation, that is, self-evident, those that do not necessarily constitute large infrastructures. It is a positive challenge, in which we should actively participate, in agreement with - preferable - in a strong majority in Parliament. We say yes, then, to what new roads open up and give opportunities to the country and its citizens. And, of course, the reference to citizens, to borrowers, to elections, to bankers may sound pleasantly to Greek citizens, but it is not useful because it does not reflect the respect we should have for these citizens. We must give in our actions the value they have and not words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u336	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House the letter from Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis to the President of the Parliament on 'Receive the resignation and appointment of the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs'. "A) By Presidential Decree 106/9-12-2019 published in the FEK 195/9-12-2019 (cf. A), the resignation submitted by Antonios Diadian of Hercules was accepted from the position of Deputy Foreign Minister and was relieved of his duties. (b) By Presidential Decree No 107/9-12-2019, published at the FEK 195/9-12-2019 (cf. A), Constantine Vlassis of Georgios was appointed as Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs.'
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u337	Mr. Floor Alexiadis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks for the introduction, too. I always hope that such good news will be heard in this Chamber. I would like to begin, ladies and gentlemen, by expressing my concern and solidarity with the ministers. We have heard twice in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. We have heard the same speech in plenary on taxation. We're listening again today. A politician when he cannot renew his arguments and respond to the counter-protects that have been said, to set out the elements that have been asked to him and to resolve all these issues on which we have raised issues, means that there is a political issue and I hope it will be overcome quickly. I agree with you, Mr Zabwe, because you are one of the few in the government camp, which you cannot say is ignorant of today's bill, because, as far as I know, you are aware of banking issues. So you cannot say I didn't know why many times in this Chamber we had various politicians who said 'I didn't know', 'I didn't have time to read' etc. I am starting, Minister, with the obvious question: why were they urgent? Why do you not want a detailed dialogue to take place? I put aside your morning's delay, which Parliament expected you to come and you didn't come and we lost an hour of discussion. Why, however, do you deprive the Greek Parliament of an essential possibility of dialogue, on a subject which is not a simple matter? It is not a simple matter which concerns a tax of 40-50 million. It is not a question of a 200 million relief. It's not like that. It is a matter of a possible budgetary burden by more than 12 billion. Mr. Undersecretary, Mr. Zabwe, I would like in your speech, please, with the experience you have, to explain to me. I'm an economist with an ASAE degree, nothing else in my life, I'm not a lawyer. I read the report from the Scientific Service of the Parliament, and I was very surprised to see that neither you nor the Minister, in your speech, accepted to mention not what SYRIZA says but answer what the Greek Parliament says through its Scientific Service. Here, Mr President, as the representative of the President, there is a matter for Parliament. If it is the Scientific Service of this House to get tired, to read in suffocating time frames - because Tuesday night you tabled it, Wednesday he entered the committee, Thursday he is being discussed in plenary - to bring very serious texts, and we have tabled a corresponding text in the tax system, and yet there has still been no reply. So we are asking today, Mr Zabvé, that you reply. What does Parliament's Scientific Service say here? Something you did not say, you did not hide it, nor did you mention it in your speech. ‘Opinion of the European Central Bank of 6 December 2019’. I think it is this body that has a "representative" of the Bank of Greece. It says, ‘The ECB therefore, proposes the effective and timely consultation of the applicant authority with all relevant bodies, including supervisory authorities, as such consultations are likely to shed light on aspects of the draft law, which may not otherwise be directly understood’. Did you do what the ECB tells you to do? Reply and place and update the Scientific Service of the Parliament. Also, because I was concerned to hear that the bill was made by the best lawmakers. The bill was made by the best lawmakers and the House's Scientific Service comes in and states: "Some provisions of the draft law may create legal uncertainty and could be effectively recast in order to increase clarity and reduce risks. It is of particular importance that they be sufficiently clearly described in the draft law.’ Here ‘they will affect the effectiveness of the public guarantee and therefore also its overall effectiveness’. Finally, it is proposed that they be further clarified in the draft law. Here, too,'substantiated recast'. Hereafter, ‘a clearer printing is proposed’. Is that what Greece's most competent lawyers did? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President, not as long as the Minister has taken more than 15 minutes, I shall be brief. I say this because the Minister showed us too much. He didn't show us anything simple. Report of the General Accounting Office of the State, which has shared to all of us with the provisions of the bill. It says, therefore, on page fifty five, of the total of sixty pages that are all of the package, which we had to read and come to place: "From the proposed provisions the following financial results are generated on the state budget: Possibility of expenditure in the event of a failure of the Greek State guarantee to the bond holders of high seniority and in favour of the acquirer for the securitised claims of the law in question. The amount of this expenditure depends on actual facts... and ‘in any case not exceeding EUR 12 billion’. And, of course, as it has been reflected, the Finance Minister will be able to do this "12 billion" above. Do you know what 12 billion means? It means a memorandum in addition. And you want to discuss this with urgent procedure? Why are you doing this? Explain politically and technically to us, you know banking, will also be subject to the outstanding PASOK - New Democracy red loans? I mean, since 12 billion...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u339	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u340	Answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u341	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u342	Of the 12 billion that the budget is likely to be charged - I probably say - will there be even 1 euro for these red loans? Please have an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u343	Ask Mr. Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u344	You'll get after the speech. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u345	Please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u346	I understand you won't say...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u347	Mr. Alexiadis, you're shortened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u348	I shall conclude, Mr President. You told the committee that you had a dialogue with bodies. What did the agencies tell you? What documents did they testify to you? Mostly, what did the EMCDDA say to you? Minister, I will table the document from the GATT, not the tax bill on which we are still waiting for an answer from the ministers. The GATT document on the specific issues, which raises specific issues, the most specific issues, the eminent voicer of small and medium-sized enterprises and at the end of the day says four specific proposals on the right of preference, on information on a continuous basis, on the issue of the liquidation of the guarantee, on the avoidance clause. Are you going to answer that? [[At this point, the Member, Mr Treasurer Alexiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I will not go into the historic regression made by the spokesman of the New Democracy about where we were and what happened, but I will show you a sign of what we received. That's what we received! A white paper. In this context, the Commission considers that the measures in question constituted State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u349	Mr. Alexiadis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u350	I shall conclude, Mr President, with one phrase. In this context, the Commission considers that the measures in question constituted State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and The horizontal protection of first residence, of course, had expired. It was not the case, when we received, that the protection of the first home from business loans or for the public, which we managed with the extrajudicial compromise. We have brought a number of legislative provisions and protective frameworks to all these issues. Finally, Mr President, something about the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u351	Can you report one?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u352	Come on, don't interrupt, please. There's no dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u353	If I had time and you didn't get drunk at the shortcut of time...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u354	Mr. Alexiades, say the last thing you want to say and finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u355	The last point, Mr President, concerns the Bureau. It does not concern us as SYRIZA, because the insulting of Parliament's procedures...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u356	That's the last thing you want to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u357	The last of these are the two documents submitted by the Minister, two documents which I claim he or a partner did. Because the documents submitted by the Minister of Finance as SYRIZA documents and that we are to blame, they are not saying any date, they are not saying anything else. If it's from an e-mail, why hide which is this e-mail they mention in? If it is, for the second time you say, discussion mayial, you have a number of such issues, but there is nowhere to be source. I understand that the NOVARTIS case is not the only one. There are many other things coming out of you, such as refugee, the Aegean, the issues of tax policy, like many others, we are here with suffocating times and pressure, to find out what you are trying to cover up. Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u358	Mr Arvanitides has the floor from the Change Movement, which is the last speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u359	Thank you very much, Mr President. I come to the Step after Mr Alexiadis' extremely good mood, who honours his course as Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u360	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u361	Then. Mr. Alexiadis, I say that I am succeeding you in Step, after your good will, to prepare.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u362	I'm very honored, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u363	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in the urgent procedure a draft law, which deals with a genuine programme for the sale of red loans to special-purpose companies financed by the securitisation of the transferred loans and also a public-guaranteed, backward programme of guaranteeing the securities. I do not understand, of course, what this urgency is all about. Is there any risk, Minister, that we do not know, directly and with this action, of voting the bill by these procedures, will we avoid it? Yesterday the rapporteur of the New Democracy, the majority, Mr Papadimitriou, told us that the bill must be passed before the end of this year, because it is something that the investors are waiting for, in particular. Personally, of course, I see no tail from investors in our country. The opposite is true. 2020 will continue to invest, as he admitted only yesterday at an event in ELIAMEP and the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Skeylakakis, as the investments will range to 12% of GDP, when the average in the European Union is at 20%, with the problem of depreciation remaining, of course. So there is another reason for urgency. This bill is passed by urgent procedure, because, of course, the citizens must not understand exactly what is going on. We have the largest mass transfer of assets to Migration through the sale of red loans, estimated at 30 billion. Alongside this mass transport, a bond market is built that will be sold and sold to private investors, those who are waiting, poorly, as Mr Papadimitriou said in the next period. And all this, of course, will be done with the help of the state which guarantees 12 billion to guarantee the success of the project. Yesterday I also heard from the rapporteur of the New Democracy and from the Members and former ministers - Alexiadis of the SYRIZA left - asking about the potential impact on the budget pillow from counter-guarantees. You are, of course, confusing the deafness, colleagues of the Couple and of the Opposition. I don't know if you don't understand or do what you don't understand. With the provisions of the bill, the Greek State, other than a guarantor, will also be a buyer of the high senior bonds if the investors you expected do not come. To be specific, I would refer you to Article 4 of the bill, where it is provided that the Greek State, the legal persons governed by public law and bodies governed by the general government, may not be obtained with burdensome grounds of low senior or medium-term repayment, issued in the context of a securitisation of claims for which the Greek State has been applied for or guaranteed under this law. In conclusion, therefore, the State may buy high-pre-emptive securities, which has already been guaranteed for them. It is unfavourable, of course, that the scenario is unfavourable, but there is. And then the pillow begins to be poured out, for which they call SYRIZA and New Democracy. Of course, the whole debate is about the banks' balance sheets. Of course, there is no study and prediction of the impact of this project on Greek entrepreneurship and the citizens whose first residences will be transferred. There is also no approach to what the effects on the economy of loan liquidity will be in the years to come. These issues of SYRIZA and New Democracy consider them to have been solved by SYRIZA under Law 4605/2019, and the New Democracy - before that I heard a colleague put it - because it extended it by four months. With this new framework, which essentially replaced PASOK Law 3869, only fifty cases of loans have been settled so far. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing with one comment. With this bill, I feel that we are in the same spectators' work. The same recipe for the securitised mortgage loans, which we are establishing here today, is that to some extent it gave birth to the global financial crisis, which began in 2007 in America under the bond crisis, which was covered by mortgages of high risk. That is why our proposal in 2017 concerned the establishment of a red risk-management body with the public, banking and private investors partnership, a solution which, if implemented, would now be very different for the economy. We are therefore discussing this bill after six consecutive bank supports: with the Haloskouf package at first, three recapitalisations, deferral of the banks' tax, also support for the banks, and now this sixth package we are choosing to address this big problem. So there have been six support for the banks in these twelve years, one every two years. I don't know what's next. And, of course, we do this without any care for the weak borrowers, without any care about which companies, which branches will be borrowed, if the banks acquire liquidity, without undertakings, of course, to maintain jobs in the banking sector. For example, it could have a bill, which would say that those banks who fire or choose to fire staff could not participate in the project. This provision exists for enterprises financed by the EIF. He says that if the company fires staff, it cannot claim funding from the EIF. Minister, at the heart of our policy is the need to deal with helpless borrowers, to deal with citizens' problems. Because people are the top priority, not either low or high-risk bonds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u364	Thank you, Mr Arvanitides, for completing the list of speakers. Before giving the Minister the floor, in order to close the draft bill, Mr Katrinis asked for the floor for a minute to make a statement if I understood it correctly. To the Ministry?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u365	We have placed ourselves, for the difference of philosophy in relation to the bill, and we believe that it is not just a technical bill to manage red loans. It's a different approach. I have listened very carefully to the Minister, who spoke, Mr President, almost half an hour ago, analyzed all aspects of the red loan management course, the prospects, what are his forecasts? Life will also show the future if what it is carrying with such certainty will be justified and will indeed be freed from space to finance the real economy. Of course, he did not tell us about enterprises that are currently part of the loans to be securitised and which are faced with the spectrum and the auctions and all the other adverse effects. But, Mr President, I would expect the Minister to make such a reference...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u366	Mr Katrin, I do not want to interrupt you, but this is not a statement, to be clear. You asked me for the floor to make a statement, and you are making a position. You are right, but I am sorry you misled the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u367	I would expect half an hour in which he spoke, to say a word about the twenty-four employees of the banks who were made redundant, for which the Greek state today offers guarantees. I would expect you to make a reference to this part and the aspect of the financial system, unless you do not consider it important.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u368	Minister, you have the floor to conclude the debate on the bill. I would ask you to be very brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u369	I'll be in here for two minutes, and then the Secretary-General will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u370	And Mr. Undersecretary to be very brief. I'm saying it right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u371	I just need two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u372	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u373	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the debate. I would like to tell you that Mr. Loverdos has made a very good point and is the reality. All the wings of this House have a very big problem to face. We have the private debt. Private debt is huge, has grown over the past five years, has increased by 60% since the end of 2014. It is a real problem and it wants a comprehensive solution. What we are facing here is a part of the overall problem. Because the banks have taken concrete initiatives and commitments, in fact, as you said, Mr Loverdos, the'red' loans have been reduced by the high level you mentioned by 30 billion. This was mainly the case, as I said in my speech, with write-offs and sales. Deletes and sales.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u374	Do you have the evidence?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u375	I don't have a cuff. I'd be very happy to give them to you. You know, I'm very happy to give it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u376	No objections, whenever you can.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u377	Hercules is coming to help reduce so much the amount of "red" loans. The banks continue their work, and here we are, in future, in cooperation with me, to see what else we can do to reduce the'red' loans for the benefit of the citizen, for the sake of credit expansion, to help the liquidity of households and businesses. One final comment. Since some of the information I gave in relation to the advancement made by the previous government was questioned, two remarks were made. In March 2019, we were not in the government. So the evidence is not ours, it is from the previous government. The e-mail is at your disposal, as is something very important that confirms. The European Commission report I gave you in June 2015. What's he saying? It says that the structure of the securitisation is relatively advanced and is currently being discussed with the European Commission. So you realize that all of this has been discussed, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u378	Mr. Zabwe, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u379	Because Mr Alexiadis has made a complaint that the government does not respond to SYRIZA, let us now start exactly from the suggestions made by Mr Alexiadis and Mr Tsipras. We note that five months after the elections, SYRIZA is still faced with a major confusion and particularly with the issue of'red' loans. If, in the end, what the government has brought to Parliament is the plan proposed by SYRIZA, why does SYRIZA not support it today? If it's not, what does it have to propose? He didn't say anything to us until now. We don't understand what your proposal is. Mr Tsipras, previously made an asymmetrical hint - a cause for the government's handling of the matter and the hierarchy in force, especially because the State Secretary may be in the position and to what extent he works well or not with the Minister. I would like to say here in advance that the way in which the Ministry cooperates, all the staff of the Ministry of Finance, under Minister Staikora, is literally exemplary. This is illustrated by coordination, methodology and, above all, by the result. But I would like to say this. If there was the need to establish a Deputy to the banks and the banking system, it is because you created it, firstly, leaving the huge problem of the'red' loans unresolved, literally strangled in the market and production activity. Secondly, because it was the inability of the government at the time, as you remember, to confuse the responsibilities of various ministers in the banking sector, which had continuously been effective. Most of all, you spoke in and out with many voices, hence inefficiencies. You left red loans stable for five years. For us, Mr Alexiadis and Mr Tsipras, the issue of banking, the issue of care and care for the Greek citizen, the small borrower, is not as it was for you, it is a central point of the government. Here I would like to say to Mr Tsipras, in particular, that for the last five months the financial staff have been trying to rectify the chaos that SYRIZA left in the banking and the economy. In just five months, what has not been done in SYRIZA has been done for five years. Hercules is the result of this coordinated, persistent, methodical work of the government under the Prime Minister, under the Minister of Finance, who we all work as one person. In addition, I want to tell you this. Mr. Tsipras has made quite a mistake. She forgets and compares Italy, comparing different sizes. Another Italian banking system and the Greek one. Furthermore, it forgets that in the Greek banking system since 2015 there has been regulation of services. It also forgets that in Italy the system was so successful, there were three extensions of the system. In addition, Italy has forgotten that to date it has reduced its'red' loans by 63 billion. Here I should like to refer briefly to various specific remarks made by Mr Loverd and previous speakers. As far as high-paid bonds are concerned, it is right that these are paid, first, by interest and bonds. The rating of the bond by the credit rating house, as we know, depends on a number of factors, such as the selection of the manager and others. The second issue concerns the ECB's opinion, which has been posted. We've all seen her together, Mr. Loverdo. That day we all read it together. All of her comments have been clearly illustrated in today's law and, if you like, I will give them to you in private, because I do not have the time at this time. As far as the other issue you have raised is concerned, I would like to tell you that there are no powers in Article 2. In Article 4, there is an investment restriction, that is to say, the restriction that the State cannot buy securities with reduced financial capacity, such as those in Mezzanine and Junior. It is precisely the application of the decision of the European Commission. In Article 17.6, which you have referred to, it is appropriate to authorise the Minister for the various procedural matters. As far as Mr Ypsilant and the GDR proposals are concerned, we have studied exactly what is currently in force in L.4354/2015 for management companies. They will also apply strictly to the management of the requirements that are securitised and are part of the ‘Hercules’. It is clear that the definition of the manager, which must be authorised by the Bank of Greece, is reinforced and supervised by transparency. In other words, all the comments made by everyone have been taken into account. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u380	Thank you very much. The debate on the articles in principle and the amendments to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is closed: 'Support programme for credit institutions'. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, nineteen articles, the farewell article, and the whole bill. Each time on the screen up to four articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. And, of course, you have to make sure that you have passed all the articles, the office article and the entire bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u381	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u382	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u383	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Support scheme for securitisations of credit institutions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u384	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u385	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-12-S1-commons.u386	With the agreement of the House at 17.45 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 13 December 2019 at 9.00 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate and (b) legislative work, according to the supplementary agenda distributed.
