ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 234-2019 mandate, the minutes of its PRACTICAL sessions, of Tuesday, April 23, 2019, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: "Sciences and T.E.I., access to higher education, experimental schools, General Archives of the State and other provisions".]] Before we move on, I have some communications to make to this House. The Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government - Minister of Economy and Development, Ministry of Finance, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Citizen Protection, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Culture and Sport, Environment and Energy, Maritime Infrastructure and Transport Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, Deputy Ministers for Labour, Social Security and Solidarity, Health, and Ministers for Employment, Social Security and Social Security, Economic and Social Solidarity, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Economic and Cultural Affairs and Sport have today tabled 6-5-2019 draft law: ‘Coordination of debts to Social Security Bodies, Taxation and Religious Welfare, Economic and Cultural Welfare and Other Provisions for the Protection of Public Health and Social Security’. The above draft law has been classified by the Government as urgent. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committees. I also have the honour to inform the House that a letter from Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras to the President of the Greek Parliament on government change, which reads as follows: "Mr President, we have the honour to beg as you tell the House that: A) By its 39/4-5-2019 Presidential Decree, published at FEK 68-4-5-2019, the resignation submitted by Elena Kounduras of Alexandros from the position of Minister of Tourism was accepted and was relieved of its duties.'
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u2	And Congressman's?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Comrade, be quiet. "B) With the 40/4-5-2019 Presidential Decree published at the FEK 68/45-2019, Athanasios Theocharopoulos of Stefanos was appointed as Minister of Tourism. Prime Minister Alexios Tsipras’
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u4	Before entering the press release on today's issue, I would like to read out the letters of resignation from the Members of Parliament's office. Evangelos - Vasilis Meimarakis, Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou and Catherine Markou, addressed to the President of the Parliament. The first letter by Evangelos Meimarakis is as follows: 'Mr President of Parliament, today the cycle of a thirty-year-old parliamentary presence is being completed with the start of the election term for the European elections. As I had said before, consistent with the principles and values with which I am on my political path, I am presenting today my resignation from the position of parliamentarian in Athens, doing my personal and political commitment not to make use of the provision that removes the incompatibility between a Member and a candidate. For me morals in politics were and it's a worthwhile rule. I would like to thank all my fellow Members for their excellent cooperation so far, the officials and the scientific staff of the House for their support during my term of office in the Presidency of the Greek Parliament. I would like, above all, to thank all the citizens of Athens for their confidence over the years, who have highlighted me in the first positions of the New Democracy vote to serve the interests of the Greek people. In the spirit of unity, understanding, composition and collective effort, I will continue to fight for Greece and Europe. With honor, Vangelis Meimarakis.’
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u5	Mrs Asmakopoulou's letter reads as follows: 'Mr President, It is a great honour for me to serve for the last seven years the Greek Parliament initially as MP of Ioannina and then as MP of 2nd Athens. In view of my nomination for the European Parliament with the New Democracy in the elections of 26 May and even though, according to the recently adopted law, it is not a cloak for the MEP to declare him as a candidate for membership of the European Parliament, I am presenting to you my resignation here. Yours sincerely, Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou.’
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u6	Mrs Marcou's letter is as follows: 'Mr President, By this letter I would like to say to you that, consistent with my commitment, I will not make use of the amendment lifting the incompatible MEP and candidate, which I voted against for reasons of moral order and principles which I have followed for seven years in the Greek Parliament, I resigned from the parliamentary post to participate as a candidate in the European elections on 26 May 2019. I am very grateful to all my fellow Members and also to the employees and scientific staff of the House for the cooperation we have had over the past years. Finally, I thank the citizens of the second Thessaloniki, who honoured me with their vote and their trust. Respectfully, Katerina Markou.’
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read to you the letters of non-acceptance of the seat of Mr Argyris Dinopoulou and Mr Ioannis Mikelakis, addressed to the President of Parliament. The letter by Mr Argyri Dinopoulou is as follows: "Mr. President, I am presenting to you my resignation from the parliamentary seat, which I take as the first offensives following the resignation of Evangelos Meimarakis. Despite the fact that there is no incompatibility between the parliamentary office and the status of the candidate, I believe that reasons for political ethics do not allow me to understand the parliamentary seat. For my decision, I have informed the President of the New Democracy, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis since 22 March 2019. Yours sincerely, Argentine Dinopoulou.’
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u8	The letter from Mr Ioannis Michalakis reads as follows: 'Mr President, In this letter I would like to inform you that I do not wish to swear as a Member as a complication with the New Democracy party in the 2nd Athens constituency. Respectfully, Yiannis Michelakis.’
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u9	Parliamentary seats are held by Panos Panagiotopoulos, Mrs Zoe Raptis and Mr Nikolaos Nyfoudis. Ladies and gentlemen, we are starting to swear. From what I have been informed, all three colleagues will swear by religious oath. Colleagues Mr Panagiotopoulos, Mr Zoe Raptis and Mr Nikolaos Nyfoudis are invited to come and give the oath before the representative of the Church. [[Members of Parliament, Mr Panagiotopoulos, Mr Zoe Raptis and Mr Nikolaos Nyfoudis, come to this point and give the following oath:]] "I swear in the name of the Holy and Omousia and Indivisible Trinity to be loyal to the homeland and the democratic city, to obey the Constitution and the laws and to fulfill conscientiously my duties." Worthful, worthy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I would like to inform you that there were two questions scheduled for debate in today's topical and urgent debate, which will not be discussed for reasons which I shall speak immediately. In particular, the first question under number 495/2-25-2019 of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Mr. Theocharis, the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights on the subject: "An unanswered questions about the current Secretary-General of Corruption", will not be debated as a result of the impediment of the relevant Deputy Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights Mr. Dimitrios Papagopoulos, due to a workload. Also, the first with number 496/2-5-2019 topical question from the New Democracy MP, Mr. Vassiliou Yoyakas, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The resolution of serious cases was related to the adoption of special treatments", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis, due to a workload. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the announcement of the motion of censure against the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Paul Pavlaki, and the conversion of this into a vote of confidence. The Chief of Staff and Chairman of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, and his MPs submitted a motion of censure against the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr Paul Polakis, in accordance with the provisions of Rules 84(2) of the Constitution and 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. This motion of censure has been received by the Bureau and will be recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, it is noted that the motion of censure is signed by the required minimum number of Members, as provided for in Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure. It is signed by at least 1/6 of Members, i.e. 50 Members. There is therefore the necessary number of Members and we should proceed with the procedure. The Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament state that, since the motion of censure is tabled, the House shall suspend its work for two days unless the Government immediately requests the opening of the procedure. First of all, I would like to address the President of the New Democracy and Chief of Officerial Responsibility for his place. I shall then turn to the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Drasakis, who I see is here - to answer on behalf of the government. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss a fact that has been employing Greek society for several days and is in its own anger that we are responding today, not only from a democratic duty but also from human sensitivity, because the obscene attack by a government minister against a fighter of life rightly caused the wrath of the citizens. The inhumane attitude of a Minister of Health toward a new scientific colleague with disabilities has no precedent. The authoritarian behavior of a Member who, instead of apologizing and asking for apologies, resorts to infractions, raises the honor of the Greeks. When the Prime Minister himself is rushing to cover all of this and in an absolute way, then the issue becomes another dimension. It is all about the morality and style of power, as exercise by those who hold it today. It is our duty to activate all parliamentary weapons to highlight this issue, not only to Stelios but also to the democracy which is affected by such behaviour, and finally to erod when it comes to repeating and becoming political practice. That's what we're talking about today and the next few days. I remind you of the facts that brought us here. On 20 April, New Democracy candidate Stelios Kymbouropoulos with a public post states that he himself as a doctor and as a person with very serious social problems, from the position of the MEP, will not claim charity and favors but equal opportunities. What does Stelios say? That molecules and benefits are not enough. They are essential positive measures, but they are negative measures. People with enormous difficulties like his, what they need are common beginnings with the rest of their lives as well as common opportunities. "I challenge the impossible," Stelios wrote with disarming honesty. And then completely unnecessarily, the Deputy Minister of Health publishes the FEK of the legitimate appointment of Stelios Kymbropoulou as a psychiatrist. What does he want with his familiar market look? "If you don't want any favors, let yourself stand in line for the ESS like the other doctors." In fact, Mr. Paulakis had the courage to tell Stelios that he should be ashamed of himself, even by disclosing that this master of medicine passed seven evaluations before exercising his right to work as a disabled person. But it also distorts the essence of its position, because Stelios said otherwise. He said that positive discrimination is not enough, but that there is a need for a total culture change in terms of disability. As you would expect, this is a political storm. The medical association condemns Mr. Polakis, the Federation of MEDI denounces him for racism, even the candidate of SYRIZA Antonis Rellas is on the side of Stelios. The immediate response of the New Democracy was followed by the democratic opposition. Mr Philis - I see him here today - denounce a lack of democratic ethos and others, again, separate their position openly and publicly from Mr Polakis, saying when it is a mistake, when it is a slip, when it is a raw and extreme cynicism, when it is a lack of humanity. The case on our own initiative arrives in the House, where I myself announce that the New Democracy will table a motion of censure against this Minister. I do not need to tell you that anywhere in the civilized world this procedure would be unnecessary, because from the very beginning such a politician would have gone to his home. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But here, Tsipras and Paulakis is one and the same. The Prime Minister has not only justified his behaviour but has speeded up being fully and consciously identified with him. He stood up here quite annoyed - I must say - after my speech, to tell us that he supports Mr Polakis and does these because he is defensive, he says, and Sfakian. 'The reproach against him I consider it to be reproaching the government.' 'Sfakianos'. That's how he offended all the Cretans. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA, I've been going to Sfakia since I was a kid. I've got a lot of friends. Who told you that the Sfakians, the Chania, the Cretans are like Mr. Polakis? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And what does Cretan League have to do with a cowardly political trumpet? Above all, however, Mr Tsipras' choice to take Mr Polakis once again into his back, puts you - all the Members of the Co-population - into action with politics but also with your personal dignity. So the Prime Minister once again showed his true face and fully confirmed what we have been saying for a long time that Tsipras is Paulakis. There's no look, Paul. There's only an Ethic Tsipra. I said it the other day. Mr. Tsipras reminds me of some Russian dolls, the bamboos. You open them up and fall all over new disguises. Until you end up in the last doll sometime. She's not opening any more. And that doll has Paul Paul Paul's face. After all, Mr. Tsipras made sure that he confirmed his close bond with him by making public holidays in Easter days. Mr. Polakis was on vacation. Neither with Mr. Blonde, who is his political leader and MP Rethymnon, nor with Mr. Stathakis. Always with Mr. Polakis. So the question concerns all of you, SYRIZA MPs and supposedly independent people who support the government. Are you, too, Pauls? This will eventually appear in the parliamentary procedure which starts today: if you are, that is, if you are with the many or if you are with the Poles. If you are with humanity, with solidarity, with dignity, with dignity, or with authoritarianism and with fascist arrogance. I'll tell you how I feel, SYRIZA Members. I think you deserve better than Mr. Polakis too. Ladies and gentlemen, we are tabling a motion of censure against Paul Pavlakis because, in his political behaviour, he has exceeded all democratic limits. At first, maybe some people thought he was just handwriting when he was being photographed with his guns. Some may have tolerated him when he confessed to deceiving the taxi as mayor. Again, others may have laughed at him with his unorthodox mandarins and his "copy-paste" that he was vomiting. But the glass not just filled, it's over. And his example now is toxic and dangerous. And his public behavior is no longer a matter of aesthetics, it's a matter of democratic order. We are putting forward a motion of distrust against Paul Paul Polakis, not only because he is an unworthy Minister, who has failed in health, as demonstrated by the dissolved hospitals and the appointments of party friends everywhere. I would remind you that he also had as a hospital manager the owner of a car workshop. And I would remind him that he exposed the country to Europe, when he unwillingly attacked the European Health Commissioner, because he did the obvious: man called him because he saw the Greek Health Minister smoking in a closed space. We are putting forward a motion of censure against Paul Paul Paul Paul Paul, because he is impersonating cynicism and vulgarity in public life. He's the politician who's outlawing, shooting, holding twice as many books, canceling contests as I want. He is the politician, beware, who continues to fight judicial battles, even with people who are no longer in life, who hid with Mr. Tsipras the victims who knew there were in Matty on the night of July 23 and who has now put a agonist in his mind. A man who, by his example, with his fightership - not now, I remind you, since he was an excellent student at school - is inspiring not only those who have the same difficulties as him, is inspiring us all. And the lesson Stelios Kyburopoulos gives us is that we never put it down, that everything can be dealt with if there is will. We therefore put forward a motion of censure against Paul Paul Paul Paul Paulis because he embodies arbitrary and authoritarianism. There is no precedent for a minister threatening judges to imprison their opponents to remain in power. Nor has there been another politician who threatened to "build three meters under the earth" press representatives. And he is the only one, of course, who took the initiative to illegally register his conversation with the central banker for a loan that he took on at least suspicious terms. All of this is not treated with pre-formative cowardices, nor, of course, challenging parliamentary immunity, because "many heavy" Mr. Paulis is hiding behind Rule 86 and parliamentary immunity, when public charges are brought to him. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is abused, of course, by the complicity of the government's majority. Ladies and gentlemen, when a bully Paulakis attacks Dr. Stelios Kymbouropoulos, yes, he is vulgar and unspeakable. When he insults a hero of life, who is on a wheelchair, then he is miserable and coward. But when such unprecedented behaviour is embraced by the Prime Minister himself, then the threat goes beyond party controversy. Then we have in front of us the monster that Manos Hatzidakis talked about, namely the face of fascism, with which a society can never compromise. That is why we are tabling the motion of censure. Because "pollism" has no place in Greece of the 21st century. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Greece deserves better, Greeks deserve better. We are better off than these behaviours. And this Minister embodies the creepy slogan "or we or they", "or we finish them or end us." In his eyes Stelios, every Stelios is not just a political opponent, it's something worse. He's a different man, he's just someone who's not with him. The main thing, however, is a worthy man, that is, different from him. So, because he's different, he's an enemy. Exactly, though, this fortification to moderate, this misinterpretation of the raw as a folk, and the promotion of illegality as supposedly authenticity are the components of authoritarianism. Because identifying goodness with elitism ultimately prevents progress. And as violence is ultimately the limit that separates the wild jungle from organised society, so the authoritarianism of Polakis is ultimately the border with democracy itself. So let us not be afraid of words. "pollution" is fascism! That is why a democratic parliament must condemn it, for principle reasons, for essential reasons. In this disgraceful last episode, the anti-democratic concept of SYRIZA's leaders is concentrating, or rather shrinking, on the part of society, because they see it as a means of enforcing their pursuits. Ladies and gentlemen, the “principal man of appeal” applies to Paul Paul Paul, but also to Mr. Tsipras. The problem is now transferred to you, to every Member of Parliament separately. Will you protect your personal dignity? Those of you, Mr. Phile, condemned the disgraceful conduct of the Minister, will you swallow the words you said here? And those who have recently joined a majority of rags, are you always bound by this statement that you signed? Will you accept, in other words, to be portrayers of Paul's government chair for a while yet? Every man, every politician writes his own story. Don't forget. Each of us walks to life with his own large or small 'yes', his own big or small 'no'. Because it is also the first meeting of the House with the Government in a new composition, Mr Drasakis, I must congratulate the new Minister for Tourism. I imagined he would make his first appearance here to enjoy the parliamentary seat a little bit. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So enjoy, Mr. Theocharopoulos, the few weeks you will stay at your post. Enjoy it, because to get where you've reached you you've done really much. As the leader of a party you were appointed as a Member of another party, to finally proceed to the third party's power. All this for the chair, of course. You are the only Minister of Government whom you yourself voted against months ago. Congratulations to Mr Tsipras for his very inventive choices! It's obvious now, I think it also seems from your faces that you are in a cynical logic of managing your defeat. After the rental parliamentarians, you are now resorting to ministers with time-shares. Do SYRIZA a little bit like Airbnbb! Just don't forget. Your contract expires on May 26th! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Your removal from power is not just a prerequisite for the country to go forward, to make the lives of the Greeks better. It is necessary to restore the quality of our democracy, and it is a prerequisite for Greece to become a normal country again. Gentlemen of the SYRIZA, the elections are often judged in elementary terms. The simpler the dilemma, the cleaner it is. In such dilemmas you have confessed, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, specialize. "Or we end them or end them, either with the elites or with the people, or with the old or with the new, or with progress or with maintenance." Now that all these dilemmas have collapsed, there is a simple dilemma with which the citizens will go to the polls: "With the Greece of many or with the SYRIZA of Polakis". The answer will be given by the citizens on the night of May 26th.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u13	I am addressing the Government to answer the Chief of Officerial Response and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis. On behalf of the Government, the Deputy Vice-President and Minister for Economy and Development, Mr Ioannis Drasakis, has the floor. Here, Mr Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think what we are living today has a uniqueness in our country's political history and not just. I am referring to the fact that we are just twenty days before the critical European elections and twenty days before the also critical elections for local and regional government. We are in the face of important developments and decisions and the government chooses not to bring the issue to a debate, Paulakis, which we will discuss, as I will say next, but by excluding all other issues, by disconnecting the debate from all other issues. So you will allow me, instead of another answer, to observe...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u15	Are you referring to the government? Unless you've already made us a government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, like SYRIZA colleagues, they have not taken off and have respected the President of the New Democracy Party, I would ask you to remain silent!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u17	I don't mind anything, Mr. President. I understand what's going on and I think it'll look next. I would therefore like to point out the following: we are - I repeat - twenty days ago a very critical election on the future of Europe, Greece and local government. We have a Europe that has been in a phase of economic slowdown before it even recovers from the previous severe economic crisis, and there are risks that regressive regression forces will be strengthened, which do not say they are against any form of unification in Europe. And finally, Brexit has opened questions, which have not yet been answered. So these European elections get a special weight for everyone and everyone, which has not been sufficiently discussed so far in Greece, and even now - as we have heard - a few days before the elections Census as if it were going to push the debate and political confrontation in the sphere of micropolitical and communication impressions. At the same time, Greece is recovering an upgraded role in Europe and the Balkans. Inside the country, the government's policy, taking advantage of the degrees of freedom and credibility we have gained, creates conditions for gradually healing the wounds from the crisis, restoring injustices and establishing for the first time conditions and conditions for sustainable, fair and inclusive growth. Finally, we have the elections to self-government. Here too, the new principles which will arise for the first time with the mere actuarial system will have to make use of new resources and new roles that the present government has secured and established. In addition, these new principles in the next four years - five years will make a decisive contribution to the planning of the new programming period. That is the context, in very few words, in which today's debate is taking place. In this political context, therefore, one would expect all the political forces to contribute to a substantive dialogue, highlighting any plans they have for the next day. And while the Prime Minister has repeatedly called for a public debate on all these issues, the New Democracy chooses to table a motion of distrust against the Deputy Minister of Health for a statement that was made and judged by society and by everyone. It's not something that happened secretly, with opaque. The statement is known, its own clarifications are known, and it is a given one's right to have its own view. In this way, but also in all its attitude, the New Democracy, to me at least, gives me the impression that it wants to avoid the criticisms of the multiple elections. And worst of all, New Democracy is making use of one of the most powerful weapons of parliamentary control by its opposition, not to provoke a debate on wages, on taxes, on investment, on a number of crucial issues, but to avoid this debate, trying to unilaterally and unilaterally towards a statement by a Minister. We, however, have the impression that, without underestimating this particular issue, together with it, it is important for citizens, for example, that the hundred and twenty instalments, which today the bill was tabled and which will be discussed by the committee on Wednesday, are important for the country's constant upgrades by the credit institutions. And it would be worth discussing how these upgrades and these improvements can be translated into income and employment support. In this context, of course, it is extremely important to discuss small and mediumsized enterprises and policy towards them over the last 40 years, but also over the last four years. And of course, to discuss the Greek philanthropy and dignity, and from what the dignity of society has been affected all these years. There is nothing about us taboo or there is nothing to cause us trouble. All the issues that concern society and our citizens are issues that can and must be discussed. About the tax-free. I was surprised that the President of the New Democracy had no mention of this issue, and one would expect to use it as an opportunity to link the Prime Minister's statement that he would not reduce duty-free treatment with his own proposals for tax reductions. But what's going on here? It is true that the New Democracy and some economists, who support it, had invested in reducing the tax-free threshold, had budgeted revenues from this cut of about 2 billion, and with this 2 billion, they estimated to make tax reductions, and that is why they are having trouble talking even about the supposedly privileged issue that they had so far raised in the course of the electoral battle and, as I said, of course, about the ministers, about their work, everything. We therefore believe that the vast majority of society is interested in all these issues, and that is why I believe that the debate should be generalised. And that is the point and the Prime Minister's statement that we want and we call for a debate to be held on a vote of confidence in the government. It is not just a tactical confrontation, but it is a real way out, twenty days before the elections, that Members and all of this House can discuss all these issues. These are issues relating to the daily lives of citizens, issues relating to the prospects of the economy and society. We must have time for all three days to follow, I think it will be sufficient time, so that we can raise and discuss all these issues and even compare programmes, we have elections. What is the New Democracy programme for Europe? What is its programme for Greece, since it also wants the European elections to be a referendum on Greece? It is an opportunity to compare programmes and to make it easier for citizens to make their choices. Therefore, on behalf of the Prime Minister, I ask the House and the President of Parliament to initiate the debate on the proposal of confidence, which I tabled next Wednesday, in accordance with the Rules of Parliament and the Constitution. Personally, Mr Mitsotakis, listening to you today, I was fully convinced that your issue, your problem, is not Paulakis. Your problem is Tsipras and the resonance it has on both the people and the world in Europe in general. Your problem... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Please listen to me. Your problem is SYRIZA, because you think it was an accident. One of you said it was a 'historical accident'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u18	We'll fix it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u19	People are correcting accidents. But it turns out it was a result of society's need, which remains and is being strengthened. Your problem, Mr Mitsotakis, is that this government has created opportunities to start solving people's problems. We've already solved enough. Already all statements, all announcements by the Prime Minister in the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki have been legislated and implemented. We have already announced after torture, which had to be done, the hundred and twenty doses. I think we have reached the point where we can even start talking about tax relief, now, of what you promise to do, if ever you are given the opportunity, after you have gained credibility in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, you are not allowed. I will give you the floor for a moment, because under the Rules of Procedure it is a special agenda. Of course, if Mr Drasakis wants to answer, he will also have that reason. Mr President, you have the floor for two to three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u22	Mr Vice-President, with the respect I have on your face, if anyone listened to your speech and had to put her to a degree, she would, as they said in the Report, "zero", because you were out of the question. You were out of the question, because the New Democracy has tabled a motion of censure against a Minister, with a point of order which we fully explained, because we consider Mr Polakis' attitude to be directly insulting to the democratic order and consider this to be even more important than the economic issues you have raised. Why, Mr Drasakis, do you not allow the motion of censure to be discussed as a motion of censure and then come to this House on your own initiative to discuss Europe, for the European elections? I will tell you why: Why are you afraid that even SYRIZA's convenient and cooperative MPs may not withstand a vote that only concerns Mr Paulakis to follow the government line and express themselves in this way and vote as they actually feel. Indeed, Paulakis is not our problem, it is your problem. It's your problem, but it's a whole problem of Greek society. Of course, I cannot leave it to myself, and I am closing with this, Mr President, the fact that Mr Tsipras, who has been constantly seeking controversy, has entrusted you with the bitter glass you have to go to the Step and with the obvious difficulty in defending this political option, while he has escaped from the House once again when he knew that this debate was going on Monday to go to make a speech to the other end of our country. In any case, Mr Drasakis, I understand the difficult situation in which you have been personally involved. You are a decent man, as I believe that a number of SYRIZA colleagues, who cannot match what Mr Tsipras has said. Therefore, I cannot close, dedicating to you the lyrics of Kavafi: "If you cannot make your life as you want it, that's what you can do at least, as long as you can't humiliate it."
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u25	Did I give you the impression I had a bitter glass to handle, Mr. Mitsotakis? Do you really believe that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u26	Yeah. I'm afraid so!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u27	Good! The issue, Mr Mitsotakis, is: what is the point?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u28	It's about what we put together.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u29	The question is what we're going to go to the elections. So the question is whether we will go to the elections with the problems of society and with the morality of the government and the spirit of the ministers, our own and your own MPs, etc. or if we go to the elections in hiding the problems, avoiding a substantive dialogue, namely, in the current phase that we are, outside the memoranda, with degrees of freedom, with some potential in our hands, with stocks which at least shield us to some extent, how all this will become a force for progress for society as a whole. That's the thing for us. And there say what you want for Paul, for whomever Paul, etc. So rate as long as you want my speech, but you - of course, do not do it ignorantly, some of your reasons have led to it - you were talking from morning to night about the economy, from morning to night to night about the investments. You said that SYRIZA and the investments are two disparate, incompatible things.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u30	That's what's happening!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u31	You were talking about taxation, about all of this, and instead of coming now with your privileges, you are supposed to say, "We forget about it, because the charity of the Greek people had no other wound and other cause to be hurt, only now and only with the issue of Polakis".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u32	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u33	We, myself and all of us understand that what you do is governed by communication incentives. We interpret it as a result of the difficulties you have, and that is why we will respond to what you are doing in discussing what you want for Polakis and attitudes, but also discussing the solutions that we can immediately, but also with a view to ensuring for the Greek people. Mr. Theocharopoulos, Mr. Mitsotakis, was neither a right-wing party nor a member of Mr. Karatzafair's party. The man was left, and we're in a phase where the left wings back into SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u34	With a chair or without a chair?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u35	We are at a stage when the progressive forces ally with SYRIZA, because they are concerned and are concerned about the danger represented by your own policy and your own views. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So in two days' time, we will be able to get to the bottom of the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Papatheodorou, you don't have the floor. It is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u38	I know, Mr President. I only ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u39	It is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure and I shall not make any other derogations. Ladies and gentlemen, since the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament have submitted a proposal for a vote of confidence to the Government by oral statement of the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Economy and Development, Mr Ioannis Drasakis, on behalf of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, who at the plenary session of the House on Tuesday, 23 April 2019, also stated that whenever he table a motion of censure, the Chief of Civilian Representation and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, either to the Minister of Government or to the Government as a whole, he will ask Parliament's confidence, in accordance with paragraph 4 of Rule 141 of the Rules of Procedure, which stipulates that at any time the Government may request a vote of confidence in the House by written or oral statement of the Prime Minister in this House, in this case the proposal of confidence also enters into a special agenda. The debate shall commence two days after its submission and shall be terminated by vote, in accordance with the preceding paragraph. We are therefore interrupting the debate and we will come back with a special agenda for the debate after two days - namely, Wednesday at 18.00 - of the proposal for a vote of confidence in the government. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-06-S1-commons.u40	With the consent of the House at the time of 19.15 the meeting for the next Wednesday, 8 May 2019 at 18.00, on the subject of the proceedings of the House: debate and vote on the Prime Minister's proposal for a vote of confidence in the government, in accordance with Rules 84 of the Constitution and 141 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the special agenda.
