ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question report on Thursday 10 January 2019. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 249/7-1-2019 that was raised by MEPs from Athens, New Democracy, Olga Kefaloyannis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Questions for the operation of the Intellectual Property Organisation". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 245/4-1-2019 of the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese Republic of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Prohibition of fishing in over 75% of the Vinzotrat fishermen". 3. The 255/8-1-2019 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject: "Reading errors in the insurance code and in the specialty with which various masters have been hired." 4. The question by number 248/7-1-2019 of the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and of the Athens Parliament Mr. Spyridonos Lykoudis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject: "The Elderly of Athens is in a marginal state". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 250/7-1-2019, by Member of Parliament, Evros, New Democracy, Anastasios Prussias, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Notice the promises of compensation for farmers in the Prefecture of Evros". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 246/7-1-2019 that was raised by the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity in Athens of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject: "The Government is arbitrary against private sector workers by not recovering, for housing restoration, the 1% levy on their salaries".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: "Following the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Supreme Allied Commander of Transformation (SACT) and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic on the placement of a National Representative of the Association at the Headquarters of the Higher Alliance of Transformation and Exchanges of Letters extending the validity of the above Memorandum". The bill was passed in the competent Standing Committee by a majority vote and is brought to the House under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to its ratification. However, because a ministerial amendment has been tabled, I do not know if the Minister wants to be placed on it first and then who objects to the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u3	Of course! That's how it has to be.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, could I say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u5	Do you disagree with that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u6	No, we agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, your position is impeccable. The Minister must talk about the amendment. We simply cannot go along with the usual procedure, because here the amendment itself overturns the procedure, and there is a need for Members to be placed on the table.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u8	Okay. We said that. Anyone who wants to talk will talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u9	Okay. Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u10	I don't know if the Minister wants to talk first...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, how do we write? In what process? We're gonna put on a card?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u12	That must be answered, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, I would like to say, in order for all the Members who want to speak, that we should add to the agreement 'and other provisions' so that all Members can put themselves - and I should like to reply to the questions, because I do not want to see anything unanswered - on the amendment, without any margin of time provided for in the agreement already adopted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u14	I would ask that it be distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u15	The contract is simple and it will pass. The amendment is what we need to discuss. So I have no objection to giving time to all my colleagues to answer all the questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u16	I say whoever wants to talk to raise his hand now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, we must proceed with the process of the parties. First let the rapporteurs speak and then open a list.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u18	Okay. That's how it's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, open up the system, because we are many.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u20	All right, all right. I'll open the system. Here, Mr Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law on the ratification of the MOU between the Supreme Allied Commander of Transformation (SACT) and the Ministry of National Defence. The MOU was signed in 2004, lasted ten years and decided to extend for another ten years. He did not come to Parliament, although he should have come to the House since then, because there is a financial burden of EUR 200,000 on the state budget, and his ratification is required by law. This is the basic contract. In fact, I would like to say that the amendment we are debating today was tabled to this convention a week ago. So the correct procedure would have been for this amendment to have been discussed in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and not to come to the House. I have not been able to support it in committee, and I therefore ask for a debate here in this House and for all Members to be given time, so that all the clarifications can be given. What does this amendment refer to? This amendment refers to our obligation on 15 March 2019, that is, about three months later, to finalise the 2005 IO Convention of F-16, signed by Mr Spiliotopoulos. The compensation agreement at that time provided for an obligation on the part of the United States to grant the Greek Air Industry some EUR 230,000,000 in respect of the F-16 purchase contract. During the discussions we had on the implementation of the upgrading of the F-16 to Viper, therefore, the issue of the United States' obligation to grant these compensatory benefits to the Greek side arose. However, Greek legislation has changed. There are no compensatory benefits, along with the Prime Minister and the Government, through me, it has been promised that we in this new upgrading contract will not accept compensatory benefits except for the support of the Greek Defence Industry, without any other procedures that could leave any implied. Because the law of the abolition of AOs has quite rightly changed and we should not have in the contracts of armaments compensatory benefits, which have been the cause of corruption and the possibility of parallel payments being made. In this context, therefore, the upgrade programme, due to its high rating and technical characteristics, is implemented by means of a transnational agreement with the US Government, the Letter of Offer and Acceptance, the LOA and the FMS process, i.e. the Foresign Military Sales, which ensures the complete transparency of the programme and the implementation of the technical specifications within the engineering. This programme is structured by the US Government in such a way as to maximise the participation of the domestic defence industry, but also to ensure complete security of the armed system's supply and information. It is characteristic that the domestic industry is going to implement all phases of this project in Greece except for the design and development of the supply of individual electronic devices and the development of the required software that will be carried out by the manufacturer in the USA. In this way domestic industry will ensure a multi-dollar project from its active involvement in the programme. It should be stressed that, except for one aircraft model, no F-16 is going to leave Greece in order to undergo any upgrading work in the United States. In order to do this, ODA must have the necessary infrastructure which, of course, will remain as the ODA's dowry for use in future contracts. Already there are countries that have asked to make the upgrades of F-16 through ODA. As a Greek Government, when we started talking about this upgrade, we asked for this money, namely the EUR 230,000,000 resulting from AOE, to be removed from the contract. That is why I would remind you of the difference in the House of 1,1 and 1,3, which resulted from our request, instead of being given, to reduce the cost of upgrading. That would be the simplest. It did not accept, however, the American side and did not accept it because it stated that this amount is part of the already signed contract and that Greece had to pay the total amount. It has, however, promised that these 230,000 000 will give it to the domestic industry and so it will be substantially reduced by the final price, because they will go towards the development of the ODA and, in particular, to the infrastructure of ODA, which I will analyse. I'll talk in detail about exactly where they're going. In addition, there are several Greek defence industries that will be actively involved in the project, offering a sub-structural support to this upgrade, namely the design and construction of cables, the design and construction of structural support sections and special tools. In other words, all spare parts, tools and cables, which will be used to upgrade F-16, will come from Greek companies that will undertake a construction project chosen by LOCKHEED MARTIN, the American side, with American standards. In order to achieve all of the above, it is necessary to implement all the security, supply and information programmes proposed by the manufacturer, following the agreement of the staff as follows: First, the installation of aircraft upgrading collections by the Greek Air Industry (EAB). Secondly, the construction of additional aircraft sub-assembly sub-assemblys by ODA. These two programmes concern work to be carried out in ODA, which contribute to increasing the company’s know-how and additional employment and recruitment of personnel. Third, construction of aircraft upgrade cables. Fourthly, technical support shall be provided during the upgrading of aircraft. Fifth, assembling and testing of electronic aircraft. This concerns work to be entrusted to Greek companies with the care of the manufacturer, with transparent US-standard procedures and will contribute to the development of know-how by small and medium-sized enterprises and the employment of staff. Here I repeat that the choice will not be made by any Greek, by any agency of the Ministry of National Defence, but only by the American side with their own standards. There is therefore no question of intervening a Greek hand involving companies selected for this kind of work. Sixth, engine maintenance capability to meet direct operational needs of the Armed Forces. Seventh, establishing the ability to analyse failures and calibrate materials for the Armed Forces. Eighth, support for preparedness of operational units with infrastructure projects for the Armed Forces. These concern the fulfilment of operational investments by the Armed Forces in line with security, supply and information issues. I am not hiding you - because I want to be quite clear in this House - that we have also set houses for staff, particularly in areas which are in trouble, such as Skyros, to meet all the needs of officers and officers, with the standards already used to date. Ninth, network - central operations to exploit the operational capabilities of upgraded aircraft and other means for the Armed Forces. This is precisely what is described, namely the greatest possible exploitation of the new capabilities of aircraft, such as those to be formed. This has to do with the possibility that the new aircraft will now be able to provide a direct operational picture of the centre of operations, one of the aircraft being the command control and have through the most advanced link - I do not want to mention it in the House - communication between aircraft, the business centres and the command control. Adopted by the Commission on 18 November. Eleventh, establishing the ability to maintain wet discoloration and colour aircraft in ODA. Twelfth, upgrading of dry discoloration and colouring of aircraft in ODA. This concerns increasing ODA capacity consistent with the security of supply and information of the Armed Forces, as well as compliance with international and Union rules. One example is the pollution that is caused today in the bed of Aubus. All this waste is falling into the Ashes. Now we are managing waste and at the same time all the paints we are sending to do abroad for the war aircraft in particular, we will do them in Greece and we will also have the possibility of taking a project from other military airplanes that have already been interested. All these facilities are still in EAB. For the whole of these programmes, the country does not bear any additional costs and that is the most important thing, that is, there is no single dollar for Greece. These programmes will be implemented through the already agreed costs with the US Government through the already signed LOA approved by the JRC. All of the above programmes contribute directly to the transfer of know-how, development of infrastructure, improvement of operational capabilities and availability of weapon systems, training of personnel, promotion of exports, while ensuring the smooth implementation of the upgrading program with participation of the Greek Defence Industry. To sum up, therefore, it is clear that without an additional financial burden, in addition to the already approved transnational agreement, domestic industry will benefit to a significant extent: Firstly, ensuring hundreds of jobs in both ODA and several private companies for many years. Secondly, with the continuation of co-production of F-16 and C-130J in ODA. Here I would like to tell you that 'LOCKHEED MARTIN' was about to carry the production line of C-130J to another country. With the specific reinforcement of the C-130J production line Greece becomes the main producing country for the specific aircraft, which means work for the next twenty years for the CDA. Third, investments in support of the Operational Capacities of the Armed Forces as well as in the upgrading of ODA's technological capabilities in the context of security, supply and information. Fourthly, the provision of additional know-how and exploitation of developed infrastructure. Fifthly, the possibility of claiming similar contract upgrades for third countries. Sixth, full packages of dynamic participation. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that the initial point of view of GATT was that this does not need to be regulated. Because it's just an offer from the American side, it doesn't have to be a law. However, when we asked the legal services of the State, the Legal Council of State and we asked them to tell us whether this could be done without legislation, the answer was that it cannot go ahead without legislation, because it is clear about the law in relation to supply: when there is an offer on the other hand, and for free of charge, this offer should, once it is accepted by us and we will give it to O.k on 15 March. For the end of the first Convention's ILOs and for us to be released, it should be compromised. So after the vote by Parliament and if the House agrees, this particular agreement will be signed between the DGEU and the ‘LOCKHEED MARTIN’ and will effectively close the programme of the first AOE Convention of 2005, while ensuring the continuation of the defence industry. That is why we are here today in order to meet the request of the Legal Board of the State and the Legal Counsellors of the Ministry and to pass a law on this contract. It is at the disposal of all Members and the LOA now as a whole and as it will be. At your disposal is Admiral Kyriakidis and the partners of the OAU. As they contain confidential issues, you have now - on the part of the Ministry - free access to all texts and to all negotiating texts, so that there is full transparency and no shadow in this programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u22	Thank you. We are now passing on to the rapporteurs and at the same time opening up the electronic system for the listing of speakers. First in a row is Mr. Dedes on the side of SYRIZA. Here, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Have a good day and a good year to everyone. Mr President, this amendment seems, as has been explained by the Minister of National Defence, to have to go through the House, because there is no legal framework to cover this offer by the manufacturer of the company 'LOCKHEED MARTIN' in the 2005 contract on the compensatory benefits of that agreement. Therefore, in order to be accepted and to pass this offer of around EUR 230,000,000, it should come as a law. I understand the problem of the Minister, who was missing the day before yesterday when we had the committee debated the bill. And I think that the introductory word should be amended in order to put 'and other provisions' in order to welcome the proposed amendment. Therefore, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this offer and the clauses that the Minister has read for a long time about the specific benefits and the upgrading to be made in the construction of the F-16 in Greek facilities, on the one hand, it gives an upgrade to the know-how of the ODA's crew and plant facilities, on the other hand, it offers work because they will also work for other suppliers, which the manufacturer will certainly choose in terms of the quality of the spare parts and materials provided. Therefore, it is good on our part and I believe that this whole process will offer. That is why we agree with the amendment. And I think it must be a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, too. Before I give the floor to Mr Kedicoglou, allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to make a statement: I would like to take note of the fact that the Committee on Revision of the Constitution, for which Parliament's plenary has set a deadline for submitting its report on 15 January 2019, following a unanimous decision, calls for an extension of the deadline for its operation by 15 (15) additional days, i.e. by 31 January 2019. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u25	The House unanimously agreed. Here, Mr. Kedicoglou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. In tabling the amendment on compensatory benefits, the mystery of the sudden ratification of a four-year pending has also been resolved. It was also pointed out by the rapporteur for the Communist Party in the committee. It was strange: On Friday's Eve, the ratification of the Memorandum of Cooperation for the Greek representative in NATO's Allied Transformation Command in Norfolk comes to the House. There's Friday, the Lights' Eve, Monday's in committee and Wednesday's in plenary. Express procedure inside the holidays. And we wondered, although we have experience. So we waited to see which galaxy will be completed, which amendment will come along with this sanction. However, we did not expect such a fate to come, that is, the sanction for compensatory benefits. And all this in the midst of the so-called consortium of government partners for the scorpion. The lionifications of Mr Kammenos and the poorly-famous operatta of the partners prove to be ruthless. Stories on savages, let and avoid political disappearance and the greatest of the electoral crash. You're resenting, ladies and gentlemen of the government. She's got her limits too. Everyone knows you now. When it comes to irregular and opaque procedures, for tens, hundreds of millions of euros, you are fine to sign up, as this amendment shows. One amendment, which reintroduces the compensatory benefits you have so strongly denounced in the past. In fact, you are not returning them from the back door, but from the front with every point of view. And all this to serve certain business interests just before you leave power. And be served, too, by an intergovernmental agreement. However, let us take them in the order of the main F-16 upgrading agreement: In accordance with existing legislation, the Standing Committee on Equipment is informed and delivers its opinion on all sub-programmes related to the supply of equipment before any and at any stage of their approval by the CSCE. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliament also provide that the Standing Committee is to be informed by the Minister of National Defence before the conclusion of each public contract of work. On 20 September 2017, the Military Programmes Committee met on the activation of the F-16 fighter sub-programme. The New Democracy, with a sense of responsibility towards meeting the operational needs of our Armed Forces, gave a positive opinion on its activation in view of the sub-programme. But from the outset we had expressed reservations about how to implement it. The agreement to upgrade F-16 will be implemented not by inscription of a new letter of acceptance of the well-known LOAs, but by extending the existing one. This choice of extension also allows for compensatory benefits. But there is one issue. This extension could be five years old. He's not even a ten-year-old, Minister. It's thirteen years since 2005. On October 27, 2017, the Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, here in Parliament, stated that "both in the agreement on the upgrading of the F-16 and in any future armaments agreement concerning the present government there will be no compensatory benefits". "For the use of these as coin-issuing..." - as he said - "they set up mechanisms for breaking public money". He said too about 'corruption man', he said much else. According to the occasional official statements made by the Minister, the delay was due to the dissatisfaction between the Contracting Parties on the forward schedule of payments requested by the competent American authority. On 30 April 2018, the HRC met again, approved the award of the agreement which maintained the forward timetable. For the final adoption of the agreement, the Government did not follow the institutional information procedure envisaged. The overall management of F-16 modernisation has seen an indiscriminate amateurism and a lack of seriousness from the political leadership of the Ministry of National Defence and above all from you, Minister, with constant press leaks, public positions, a lack of adequate information for Parliament, an intention to discuss with Boeing, and a request letter had already been sent to the American side and LOCKHEED MARTIN had been selected. The valuable time lost has had adverse effects both on the cost of the programme and on the selection of the aircraft to be upgraded. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There are too many questions. I'll look after my dentistry as well. However, I would like to ask some questions about the amendment, because Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammens had demonized the compensatory benefits within this House. Despite Mr Tsipras' assurance - he had left a window that only ODA will make compensatory benefits - only 70% of the EUR 230,000 will be implemented by ODA. There is therefore a remaining EUR 30,000, almost EUR 70,000, which is not specified. We are learning today from the Minister that the Americans will choose which companies to do what. So, not even EAB knows what it's gonna do. Because, Minister, the only decision of ODA to upgrade F-16 was on August 27, 2018. The ODA's board of directors has decided, it has proved, a programme of compensation benefits of 88,000 euros. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Simos Kedicoglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For the rest, I have no idea. The questions that arise are as follows: What exactly companies will implement the remaining 30%? And we do not accept these 'the Americans will decide'. There must be something specific. Because if LAPD is to only get to build a rooftop, I'm sorry, but this isn't an upgrade of our defence industry. You should bring to Parliament a detailed list of which company will do what and what value is the work it has undertaken. We would also like to know this: does the EAB agree with the work entrusted to it? He doesn't even know that. Does our military air force agree with the offer of compensatory benefits? With what legal framework will compensatory benefits be implemented? Why have compensatory benefits not been signed in parallel with the main contract, so that we can negotiate better and achieve greater supply than 'LOCKHEED MARTIN'? This is international practice. Also, are there any additional questions: will the new contract to be drawn up include the existing F-16 maintenance programmes under way and in particular their engines? There are already ancillary contracts relating to the upgrading of aircraft and other type F-16. What are the outcomes of these contracts? When will this agreement that you signed on 30 April 2018 finally be presented to Parliament? A very serious question arises - because it can raise the cost of upgrading vertically - is this: there is information on cooperation problems between the new AESA radar and the existing ASPIS II self-protection system. If, yes, is there a solution? Is it in LOA? How is the successful completion of the programme ensured? Because we know that this can cost up to EUR 750 million more. An amount that brings the overall upgrade to EUR 2.4 billion. Incidentally it is the amount that President Trump said and who, of course, celebrated the jobs created in the United States. He didn't say anything about jobs in Greece. That's all, first of all. Of course we're negative.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u27	Thank you. The list of speakers has been closed. We are now going to Mr Loverdos, rapporteur for the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u28	Until Mr Loverdos comes to Stepma, I would like to say - if you will allow me, Mr President - that the amendment was tabled first in the Ministry of Education's bill and that the Secretariat-General and the Bureau are asked not to discuss the Ministry of Education's bill, but to include a relevant bill from the Ministry of National Defence. That's why he changed. The amendment was tabled to the Ministry of Education bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u29	And we didn't find out?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u30	I'm telling you. We had tabled it and the General Secretariat of the Government said that it should enter a draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u31	We found out on the eve of the Lights, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u32	We did not do this, but the General Secretariat for reasons of greater transparency and not go through any unrelated bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u33	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before joining us, I wish a good year with health and advancement for everyone. I want to be clean, clear, in relation to the penalty, so I can get in the rest of the aftermath. We, as a Democratic Participation, and as a PASOK for years have been in line with the country's naval navigation. In fact, I personally had the responsibility in relation to Souda to bring the relevant ratification to Parliament in 2002, when both the Communist Party obviously and the coalition then. Of course, in relation to the Supreme Allied Transformation Command and its relationship to the Ministry of Defence, we are absolutely positive. It started in 2002 and needs to move on. I think that ratification makes sense. But I have one question to ask the President-in-Office - he is missing today - when this memorandum is ratified on Monday, Deputy Minister, Mr King. With this cruising line in the country, is it in agreement? He was a secretary of SYRIZA's party a few months ago. Does the party have this cruising line? How many limits, is it hypocrisy or not? I'm not going to talk to SYRIZA executives like Mr. Dritsa. But I've recently got what he said at the time. I shall refer, to the Prime Minister of the country, then to the Chief of Police and to what he said in Thessaloniki. He said, "We don't change positions like shirts. Our appreciation was and remains that, in international balances, NATO's military formation is about a time past, in the Cold War, and has no reason to exist anymore." Mr. Tsipras said that in the fall of 2014. What mutation is that you've done? Big times and adjustments! And we were here Monday, Mr. King - the SYRIZA secretary until a few weeks ago - to recommend a sanction, as the top naval supporter in our country. That's enough! You're all over the world. And you leave, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, and as long as it's time to leave earlier, because you are constantly creating problems and mocking the world and he understands it. "Damassian transformation", why? When did you make fun of yourself? Then, or now? And we've been talking about ratification always until 17:15 on Monday at the Standing Committee on Foreign and Defence. In fact, Mr Minister, because I knew that you were abroad, I said to Mr King without knowing that there is an amendment: 'You're not telling me that you've been taking pictures to the Ministry for five years now of the declared one, are you not telling us anything about the declared one instead of reading them from newspapers and websites?' And I said that without knowing that I am literally. I was dominating, but I learned it at 18: 00, because at 17: 15, after the committee voted, we left and saw that the amendment had been tabled. Is it not a patriot of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, which, for five years now, has been a patriotic attitude and we have not taken the misery you are doing in general? We treated you right. Why are you mocking us in this obvious way, where all the MPs understand it? But you did. And Mr King is not here today, he has no face, because he had to be clear on Monday and get on his back an amendment, which should have been passed by the Committee on Military Programmes, which is Mr Theocharopoulos there, and we could have talked about, because we recognise that we are not talking about expenditure. And the General Accounting Report says that we are talking about income which, however, there are questions and I would like to ask questions. First of all, there is an issue of serologicality which refers to legislative issues. By the 2011 Venizelos Act, the compensatory benefits, adapted to a Community directive, were abolished. That's compensatory. One would say that the project under construction has characteristics of a compensatory programme. Here the law says it's not, it defines it otherwise. Good, this difference between its nominal and actual value, which is a reference to the draft law, the amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u35	But there is no difference at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u36	My question, however, is whether the nominal amount is 230 million, the actual use of certain factors?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u37	She's the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u38	Could be five million, could it be ten? How much is it gonna be?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u39	230.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u40	This requires a clarification on your part when you are placed in your dentistry on technical and specific terms to understand. There is also a wording that gives thought to it. On the basis of - it says - of existing contracts. Let me get this straight. But I want to know who they are, and who they are. Obviously, pre-existing contracts which provided for compensation, I understand. I want your explanation. And soon after that, he talks about ancillary contracts. We want to know how you imagine these side effects. Also, the National Representation should be aware of the programmes that will go to ODA and to what heights. We, as you did, do not have time to see the employees of ODA. We are taking notes, we are trying to draw up these speedy procedures, with the implication of the Committee on Defence and Foreign Affairs, have not allowed us to make the necessary consultations with the trade union to understand what this is all about. I want you to tell us what procedures are going to be agreed with ODA or with other companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u41	So do we. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-nine students and students and three educational sessions from the Faculty of Laconian. The House welcomes you and wishes you a good year. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Kouzilos has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today's ratification, the Memorandum of Cooperation is a typically formal process concerning the placement of a National Liaison Representative at the Headquarters of the Allied Command of Transformation. In various structures in NATO and the European Union we have links. The role of the links is to represent the national strategy in the structures and headquarters found. But, above all, our concern on these issues, both for the European Union and for NATO, is what all the procedures in NATO and the European Union serve. I will speak only about NATO at the moment and whether it serves the national interest when our country has become a large naval headquarters. From where SYRIZA said "outside NATO", we see that there are naval US bases throughout the country. We have seen an inconsistencies in what SYRIZA has been saying over the years. And we also see the statements by the US Government and NATO saying that SYRIZA is the best government in the interests of NATO and the European Union. And here, we have very simple questions. There are new reports on the Skopje issue again. If there is a haircut of Skopje, what is our country's position? What are we gonna do? What position will NATO take? Are we going to intervene, in accordance with the '99 Washington Conference? In general, NATO does not serve the national interest. That is why we are voting against this sanction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u43	So do we. Mrs Lianna Kanelle has the floor from the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we have become a reference point. Suddenly, when NATO is being discussed, the JRC has become a benchmark. Are you kidding us? You, in particular, are mocking us? Are you kidding the JRC? Because the JRC has a stable anti-Russian attitude from its founding and NATO and the JRC. Suddenly, did you all become at the micro-political level fine anti-anti-natotics? And because you can't do it right away, are you doin' a shotgun with the JRC? Did the pain take you for the Natonic attitude or not of the government? First of all, it's a memorial, nato-government. What are you surprised about? A referendum was held here and overturned. Is the Natonic attitude your issue? This is a small comment. Minister, what is being done is humiliating. We also pointed out to the committee that, when this bill came here, the Rules were not respected either. As you know, it cannot be introduced into a committee unless it has been announced before a Plenary Session. This came literally from the window. You come and tell us that because you were abroad, you put it in the Ministry of Education's bill and that in education it was considered uneducated. I don't know what we're training for. I don't understand. We are trained in a process tolerance, which goes beyond us. Hey, you said to come and support it. We are going out, the door closes behind us on Friday and an amendment is coming and we are here, in this country, at this particular moment, with the specific problems for the people, with the particular poverty and hunger, and there are issues which are as follows: your words are both written and oral. 'An amendment for about 230 million'. What are the 230 million and you're telling us 'about'? Isn't there a feeling of ignorant? "About"? So one asks, "What do you have in your pocket?" and answering "approximately EUR 2"? And are you telling us “about 230 million”, which is about compensatory, which is not compensatory, but is it a compensatory adjustment? In reality, you are unsolved by American, company-owned 'BOEING', 'LOCKHEED', since '99. To say things with their name about which F planes we're talking about and about what upgrade. We will vote against it because it is in the context of naval planning. You're telling us he's going to be a legacy and the allies will be here. White day by the allies as a lasting presence only one has to sarcastic for the invasion and occupation of our naval ally in Cyprus. That's for sure. And NATO didn't save the story. Therefore, do not extort us as a national, as a patriotic natoman - there is no case - because they will stay - it says - jobs. We have been asked specific questions on this occasion. In any case, we will vote against it, after we have voted against the way and substance of what you have brought to the general bill, the contract that you have brought it, and it has been delayed for a decade. We have heard about the upgrade: 2.4 from Trump, 1.1 from the government, Minister, and at some point in your interview, in your presence at the Ministry of National Defence a while ago, you spoke about 1.5. So we have 1,5, 1, 1 and 2.4 billion dollars. Make it clear how much it will be. I want you to tell me something: the original design that we all knew and heard from the Air Force was that you would upgrade ninety-three F-16. You made a decision on ninety-three - we have more - and you would leave 30 out, which were thirty after 2005 and did not need to be upgraded. Then comes the CYSEA and provides for the modernization of eighty-five aircraft, except for the older ones and incorporate them into the new ones of 2005. It's the oldest ones they want. Can you tell us how many and what time? It's a question to solve it. Secondly, as regards analogue and digital in radar and the self-protection system, is it compatible or is it not? It's not obvious. If you're gonna make it compatible, how are you gonna do it? Will it be within the cost of upgrading or will we be given an extra amount and additional know-how? Third question: You say that 'LOCKHEED' will have the upper hand on the amount of subcontracting. As far as we are concerned, they would not need subcontracting if we really had a national, as we say, public, state-run industry. We wouldn't need them, they'd be integrated inside. It would be socialised, these things would be in the hands of the people. Okay, she'll decide. In what process? So, in your view, the EAW will open the tender for subcontracting, with specifications to be given by LOCKHEED, and then LOCKHEED will be the one to decide who will be the subcontractor? Or are we conscious that this does not involve the choice of construction staff and utility staff to leave the money out? That is to say, on the basis of general policy, even an amendment that you are bringing here without having gone through the relevant Equipment Commission or the formal procedure - it comes as an amendment, it is about 230,000 000 000 - you admit that we are not merely integrated into becoming an infinite naval base at the end of the country, but also taken as an investment and job assurance. Wild West reminds of this thing. As sealed, all military and educational issues on military equipment will be like entering us and a seal of people belonging somewhere, not serving. It is not even an allied concept, it is that we become subcontractors, twigs,'menes' - your vocabulary - in order to serve interests which I have been absent from the nationalities since the Greek people do not define them. We are also voting against the convention as it has come, and we are voting against the amendment. And we call on you - I have no other way of telling you, because the issues of the Armed Forces must be somewhat - how can I tell you? - more modestly, that's where patriotism is exhausted, not elsewhere - not to forge for national anything that is about other interests. It is the greatest insult to the history of the Greek people to forge for him anything that concerns Nato-Imperialist interests, which fully historically justify who are true people's slaughterers. This cannot be a patriotic horizon for Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u45	Mr Katsikis, rapporteur of the ANELs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. I do not have much to add after what has been tabled by the Minister of National Defence, whose position is both modest and thorough and precise in terms of the content and explanatory statement of this amendment, which we are debating. I have to say, Mr President, that this amendment refers to the framework of a transnational agreement signed on 30 April with the Government of the United States of America on the need to implement a programme for the modernisation and upgrading of aircraft F-16 of the Air Force. With this amendment, which we are now debating, the exclusive manufacturer of F-16 fighter aircraft, the company 'LOCKHEED MARTIN', of a total nominal value of at least EUR 230 million, including a total of 12 projects for the benefit of the Ministry of National Defence and the Greek Defence Industry, is accepted. The above programmes concern, inter alia, the installation of aircraft upgrade collections by the Greek Air Industry, EAA, the construction of additional aircraft sub-assemblies by the EAA and the possibility of maintenance of engines factories. With the proposed amendment it becomes necessary and beneficial to establish and maintain the domestic technological industrial base that ensures the immediate and the highest possible level of support for the Armed Forces, as the uninterrupted use of aircraft, guaranteed by this offer, believes that it is vital for the country's national security and defence. The acceptance of the offer ensures the implementation of the aircraft modernisation programme and provides significant benefits to the domestic defence industry. The manufacturer’s offer shall be provided without any financial burden on the State budget and shall be designed to make a final settlement on its part of any obligations arising from ancillary contracts with the Ministry of Finance relating to the subject matter in question. There are therefore no additional financial implications on the budgets of the other bodies of the General Government since there are no changes in the amount of the payments made to the abovementioned transnational agreement. Finally, I would like, after listening carefully, ladies and gentlemen, to make the comments of the previous rapporteurs. We must now come to the conclusion whether we want this transnational agreement to be implemented at the same time as a war in the Aegean. We should conclude whether we want to modernise the instrument of our Air Force to deal with all these problems and threats that have never stopped coming from the 'Order risk'. Of course, I know that some of the positions of representatives of the political forces have their operative cause in their political situation, as well as some other positions focus on whether these 230 million, which are given in the form of a return, in the form of a provision and not a discount, as the Minister of National Defence noted earlier, guarantee transparency in the implementation of this offer, a offer to which this amendment refers. Indeed, it is legitimate to have such a political dialogue in this Chamber. As also publishers and the staff of the Ministry of National Defence, starting from the political leadership, represented by Mr Panos Kammenos, were given the opportunity to have access to all of those elements which have so far been documented, which - I repeat - place the transparency of this project as described by the amendment tabled. Therefore, because, ladies and gentlemen, there has always been a unified climate of consensus between us in the interests of our country and the Armed Forces, I would also like to ask you this time in the same consensual climate to vote on the amendment tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, too. Mr Spyridon Dannelis has the floor from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. LOCKHEED MARTIN’s contractual obligation is, as you know, a key prerequisite for the implementation of the F-16 upgrading. We, the Potami, agree with the implementation of this upgrade, and of course have no problem with the naval designs, because we believe that the strategic choice of belonging to the West is not a card. Now, Minister, the so unorthodox procedure that has been followed, of course, creates the basis for expressing all kinds of questions and suspicions, of course, since we do not live in times of known stability, but we live in times of evil. So one issue that is linked to the so negatively burdened condition of compensatory benefits would like another treatment. I think we should also have some more specific answers, since we know that the whole project would be entrusted to the ODA. We would therefore like more clarity in answering this about 30% of the work that will be entrusted to other companies, to see by what procedures and what guarantees of transparency this will be, so that we can create a more comprehensive understanding. However, I would say again that we do not disagree. However, we want clear answers as to which procedures will be followed in relation to the management of such a sensitive and delicate issue and indeed such a size. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, too. Mr Saridis has the floor now from the Centroon Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. In order to close the agreement, the Centroon Union will give a vote in favour, consent, we have no matter what. As far as the amendment that has been tabled is concerned, I have been placed too many times in this Chamber, and I have said that the country needs cooperation between us, cooperation between the political forces and that the only thing that can do is to do so. The only thing that can unite us in here is the truth. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is, in my view, a very good foundation, a very good and powerful foundation, so that we can start building the famous political stability, which we all know in this Chamber needs and, in my view, so that we can build this political stability, we must have a consensus between the political forces. Political stability means cooperation between parliamentarians who legislate and government. It means consensus on critical national issues. It means trust in democracy and its institutions. So the truth is that it can achieve all this. The truth can force us to cooperate. The truth must force us to come to an agreement. The truth is that on which we can rely to lead our country to sound bases in the future, which have been extinct for many years. Sadly, however, this truth is still in exile today. We've kicked her out of Greece. Evidence of what I say is the dozens of unanswered questions posed by Greek citizens and which do not receive an answer through this Parliament. So this truth, the only truth that ought to lead us all into this Chamber to vote for the amendment, is that Turkey wants and seeks war with Greece. This is the truth that should be the beacon that will lead us to vote in favour of this amendment. But, Minister, the unorthodox procedure followed by the specific amendment, the way and content it has in it, the many ambiguities which it has created, the short time that we have for our part, to study it, they drive away the truth, the grayon, they give it clouds. Minister, we as the Central Association will expect to respond to the questions that both our colleagues have raised and will be placed after the answers you will give for this amendment. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, too. Mr Venizelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, I would like to identify the subject of today's debate. We are not discussing Greece's participation in NATO today. Greece has been a member of the North Atlantic Alliance since 1952. He joined the first wave of enlargement along with Turkey. We are not talking today about the strategic importance of Greek-American relations. America is a strategic partner of Greece. This is a stable foreign and security policy in the country. We are not talking today about the contradictions between the Nato-American framework and the framework of the Greek-American relations, because both NATO and the United States also take into account other countries and other dimensions and other parameters in our wider region. So the question of Greek-Turkish relations involves all these issues, which we all know very well and experience from at least 1973 onwards, before the invasion of Cyprus and the continued occupation of a large part of the island. What we are concerned with today is in the context of the country's transnational political choices and the strategy that we should have to do in relation to armaments and the specific programme of upgrading F-16. Yes, sir. Some governments in the past have arranged for the country to acquire a remarkable F-16 airplane and have previously concluded agreements to upgrade and re-upgrade these aircraft. So we obviously remember the attitude of other parties, of other political forces, which were also against the supply of F-16 aircraft and of previous necessary upgrade programs. We haven't lost our memory. We know what's going on. But this 'genicism', this late accession to the national strategy, this late accession to the self-evident, that the country has no safer frame of reference than the West, from NATO, from Europe, than the strategic Greek American relations, leads to a lack of seriousness. It shows the current mortal government SYRIZA - ANEL trying to convince it is the most good, most effective manager of American interests, Natali interests, European interests. This does not, however, affect the seriousness and credibility of those who are ruled as persons. It affects the effectiveness of the country's foreign and defence policy, because when the other person sees you exaggerate, you must strive to convince that you are willing, that you are ready to give everything before the negotiation, it does not take you seriously. It takes you for granted and, finally, you cannot, representing the country, defend national interests and form the best possible correlations on the ground. So while the option of upgrading is correct, while, of course, in the process of transnational agreements, it is a procedure which preferably has to be chosen, we now have the sideline introduction of compensatory benefits, ex post, after the upgrading has been decided and after the supplier, the main manufacturer, LOCKHEED, has been selected. What are the compensatory benefits and why have we explicitly abolished them in 2011 and banned them? It is a colossal circumvention of public procurement legislation. The State has certain needs, which it determines with its institutions. He wants to serve them with supplies, with works and supplies contracts. Instead of applying the relevant national and European framework legislation by means of the supplier, it turns this procedure into a process of private and uncontrolled procurement of the supplier with those who should be public suppliers or manufacturers. This is the big issue, the first issue, that we have one of the cornerstones of the entire procurement and procurement legislation in the armaments sector, and even in matters which are not armaments, but are incidental. This, as you can see, has worked in the past as a channel of money trafficking, and this has to be broken, cancelled, because it also offends the principles of transparency. This was therefore voted in 2011 with a broad consensus. They almost all agreed with the new defence procurement law and with the abolition of the compensatory benefits, which are also a Community obligation in the country. It does not allow Community legislation to have such parallel mechanisms. The government is now coming - the government, not the Minister of National Defence alone - with the signature of the Minister of Finance, and Mr Tsipras - is not a matter for Mr Kammenos - and says: 'I repeat the compensatory benefits. In this way, I am clearing up previously pending compensatory benefits contracts with the company in question, so that there can be purity for it." And the House is supposed to accept an offer of 230 million. What offer? Pupils? Are they philanthropists and philanthropists and donate to the Armed Forces? Apparently, no. This has been taken into account in cost. Greece pays through the main upgrading agreement. The supplier has taken into account and any investment he has to make in Greece, but this is how he comes to award private contracts without being controlled by the public and by the public administration, administrative and judicial bodies, so it circumvents the laws on compensatory benefits. Is this a 230 million-dollar offer? Oh, no. Greece pays for the main contract. Why does this create further problems? Because we're not even sure it's about 230 million. The expression "nominal value of 230 million" what does it mean? It means what it meant, I am afraid, in the contracts of compensatory benefits, whose nominal value was equal to the value of the main contract, but the real value was about 1/10, so there was a coefficient that, in line with each other, accounted for the value of the main contract with the compensatory amounts. If this is a real investment of 230 million, no nominal value can be mentioned. It must be the real value of 230 million. But again the 'LOCKHEED', who was right, has had its own corporate cooperation agreement with ODA over the past twenty years. EAB, the Greek Air Industry, is one of the best industries of its kind in Europe. ‘LOCKHEED’ has chosen it not for Greek programmes, but for the world market and for some critical parts of F-16 and for some critical parts of C130. This is a corporate agreement that is crucial and useful to the ODA. It's about 30% of ODA's turnover. Let LOCKHEED go to honour this agreement, to renew it, to extend it as a company contract with a company, not through allegedly offering and false compensatory benefits. This is not a 'LOCKHEED' convention. S.A.B. is a company. It is supervised by the Ministry of Finance. It has no legal connection with the Department of Defense. This is a contract by the Ministry of Defence, namely the Greek State with the LOCKHEED, which actually paves the way for public procurement to be transformed into private choices of 'LOCKHEED' in Greece, with public money paid for in the main contract. I therefore think the least the government should do, and above all the Minister for Finance, who is responsible for the implementation of the budget, is to withdraw this regulation, which solves no legal questions for those who conclude the contracts. It creates further problems. Reconsult the Legislative Council of State and implement national and European legislation on these matters.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the House that a request for a roll-call vote has been tabled, which will take place on Monday at 12 noon, before the debate on the Ministry of Education bill begins.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u54	Since Wednesday we're going to Monday?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u55	There is nothing in the House in the intervening period.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u56	Today?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u57	We said Monday. Mr Ballis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have asked for the floor, and I was written as a speaker, because references were made to the Committee on Informatics to give some clarification. I understand and could understand the questions that have been raised and the procedure that was perhaps followed and the way in which the amendment and the questions he has put to me and the clarifications requested by Mr Lovers - which I believe and hope will be given - but also the way in which Mr Venizelos has been placed, in the light of his experience. I could not understand, however, the appreciable surprise I heard from the officer responsible for introducing this issue, as if for the first time we heard it, namely that in relation to the upgrading of the F-16 there will also be an issue of the involvement of the ODA. It was not only - as Mr Kedicoglou said - on 20 September at the meeting of the Committee on Equipment, which held such a debate. Let me remind you that since February 2017 the first reports have been made. At that time, Mr. Vitsats, who was talking about the added value that he brings to Greece under the F-16 upgrade programme. There was reason to say that the way would be by extending the existing contract. This meeting was held on 20 September 2017. Indeed, New Democracy - it was Mr Georgiadis at the time - said that first of all it says 'yes' about the upgrading programme, but it retains the reservation on the final amount that this agreement would consider. There the Chief of GAA, Mr. Christodoulou, again states that there will be benefits for the local defence industry. It says that about 200 million - at that time, he said - is estimated to be for ODA. I would also like to remind you that on 2 April the meeting of the Committee on Equipment referred to - after a question Mr Georgiadis again, if I remember correctly - that the deadline was until 30 April 2018 to reply to the LOA, as the Minister said. The final cost of upgrading close to EUR 1,1 to EUR 1,2 billion is mentioned, not dollars. Also, that's where again reference is made to the need to involve ODA throughout this process, so that we have the security of the supply chain for our Hellenic Air Force. Of course also at a meeting of the Committee on 28 April 2018 there is also a relevant document of the Chief of GEA, but also in the recommendations of the agenda, where reference is made again to the need for ODA involvement in the process of upgrading F-16. In fact, the number of aircraft to be upgraded is also mentioned. There is also the reference to the thirty two (32) Block 30 which is of interest to be sold abroad and to how the parts of the Block 52 that are going to be used to upgrade will be exploited and upgraded to the rest of our Air Force, so that we have a very competent number of aircraft - we do not need to mention a number - that will be able to do their duty. There is therefore no surprise, for the first time, that the R&D&I will be involved in the upgrading. In fact, references to specific amounts have also been made. There are the questions, which I believe will be clarified and which will be able to answer questions, which are, in fact, quite rightly, there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ballis. Mr Dendias, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, I should like to begin by wishing my fellow Members a good year in 2019, although I must say that this debate today does not give my hope for a good parliamentary year. First of all, I should like to refer to the broader political issue. The present Minister of National Defence, ladies and gentlemen, if what they have seen is accurate, is on his way out of the government. However, it comes here to suggest through its signature and with the signature of the Minister of Finance - primarily, an expresser of government policy - not only this piece of legislation, but also this amendment. Observation first: It would be good if the Minister presented to tell us what happens to the existence or absence of a parliamentary majority. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, there is a fundamental issue here. It is clear that the government's initiative to bring this memorandum after fourteen years to a vote was not because during the holy days of Christmas, and in particular on the day of the Lights, it decided that this 14-year-old outstandingity should be corrected.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u61	It's a different day.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u62	It's from before. I know, I know. I am referring to the plenary, Mr Phile. I know your concern for religiouss, which, of course, is encyclopedic and is not a declaration of faith, but in any case, if you like, let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u63	It was Saint Nicholas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u64	But if you want, we can, whenever you want, discuss any concerns about the surface issues - I mean the Holy Spirit - in your understanding of the things. So let's go now. You use this memorandum as a transport vehicle for the large - it is the truth - of this amendment's weight. This amendment first raises huge issues of substance and raises procedural issues. The main issues are the most important. It is directly contrary to the provisions that have been adopted here by a huge majority of Law 3978/2011 and the co-chairman in this law of European law. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that this law was passed with this general acceptance to put an end to a source of deep corruption and established corruption in the country's public life. I am referring to the compensatory measures, which were previously accompanied by equipment. Therefore, against this general acceptance and the general perception, this amendment, which obviously concerns compensation, comes here. And it appears in a charming way - I have to say diligently, if it does not underestimate Parliament's intelligence - as an offer, I imagine, of heart, as an offer, I imagine, of goodness to the Greek State by the 'LOCKHEED MARTIN', without of course having this offer and its content to know everyone. Because this offer did not pass through the committee responsible for armaments, it was not put into any suffering or informal knowledge of anyone, as we know, who is in this Chamber on the seats of Parliament. I am not talking about the multiplier gentlemen in the government headquarters, because I do not even know what they know. I also have to say - you will allow me one more minute, Mr President - that we are talking about drawing up a contract whose plan has not been seen by anyone. And all this, ladies and gentlemen, under the cover of strengthening the national industry, which too cannot be criticised. It has been stated directly before that there is already a contractual framework between ‘LOCKHEED MARTIN’ and ‘ATA’, which could be exploited. Nor is the amount specified here. I read you from the amendment, which says, 'of a nominal value of at least EUR 230 million'. In other words, we have two direct conflicting words: on the one hand, 'nominal', which expressly refers to the'real', and on the other hand, 'at least', which creates total incoherence in terms of amount and lack of control. It has already been made clear during the placement of the Minister that these theories 230 million - at least by name - were 'run' what is the exact amount - will not be allocated to the ODA as a whole, but by at least 70 million - at least by name, 'run' what is the amount - will be given to private manufacturers, who will determine? 'LOCKHEED MARTIN'. And what is all this, ladies and gentlemen? No, of course, with the offer of heartfeltness, kindness and love of 'LOCKHEED MARTIN', but with the delay of the Greek taxpayer, which is integrated into the price from which this amount is deducted. You are therefore invited to vote through an amendment on the day after the holidays, without any advancement, which is proposed by a party, which is, in principle, against NATO, against our participation in the alliance, against the United States, against armaments. Ladies and gentlemen, are these things serious, if you accept any criticism, without adding that it is recommended with the Minister of Finance, who has repeatedly learned from here to us a lesson of irresponsibility? Is the recommendation from who? From a minister who directly has declared his disagreement with the main government line and is probably on the way out from the government. Now tell us any elite man in this Chamber what a conclusion he draws from everything you have to tell us. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the government is concerned, I have lost all hope. I know well that I have lost my saliva all these years, but at least to the Members of the parliamentary majority - and I refer to the majority of SYRIZA - I say to you one thing: at least you have the obligation, ladies and gentlemen, to defend what is left of your parliamentary dignity. By voting for such provisions you do not do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u65	Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u66	I, Mr President, would have liked to hurt Mr Dritsa with whom I had a very long debate in this Chamber a few years ago on the positions of SYRIZA for NATO and which he was vowing for SYRIZA's decisions against NATO, but, I think, this is not the day. Because what has happened, ladies and gentlemen, is outrageous. Minister, what did you tell us a moment ago? You told us that we did not discuss this amendment in the Committee on Armaments, in which by law everything comes, before they arrived in plenary, in respect of supplies from the Armed Forces, because you were absent from Greece. Commonly because you were at the party of the daughter of Emir of Dubai, Greece and the Greek Parliament should not have learned that you intend to bring compensatory benefits.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u67	That's what Mrs. Bakoyannis says!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u68	Mr Ballis, I speak very well: what you said is wrong. And you have read from the minutes of the Committee on Equipment, which are confidential. But I'm going through this. I'm passing on that you've read to the House in private minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u69	I said the titles, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u70	On that day, if you remember, we had also taken cell phones out of the Chamber, at the request of the Minister, so that they would not be heard in public. But, anyway, I'm getting past the standard. What you read was in the main upgrading contract of F-16 and the things that ‘LOCKHEED MARTIN’ would have undertaken to give as a sub constructor, as a sub-commander, to EAB. No matter what this amendment is today. No relationship. You're confused. What we are discussing today has never been discussed in the Committee on Arms and has not even been implied. On the contrary, both Mr Kammenos and Mr Tsipras in all their public places broke their clothes that during the time SYRIZA - ANEL there will never be compensatory benefits, because the compensatory benefits were the way to make corruption and money for the jury. Those are Mr. Kammenos's words and Mr. Tsipras's words. In addition, Mr Tsipras had said that they would fight to reduce the price against any other obligations of the 'LOCKHEED MARTIN' and compensatory benefits of the past. Now we're going to the point. You said, Minister, that the country is committed, due to the old 2005 Convention, by March 2019, to completing the compensatory benefits procedure. Please submit to Parliament the document on which the 2005 Convention was provided for as the end date in March 2019. Because throughout the 2005 Convention the only reference - at least from what I have seen - is a five-year extension period, which is no later than 2010. Today, for the first time, we heard from the Minister of National Defence that it was not the extension until 2010, but it was the possible extension until 2019. Please, because this is very serious and is essentially, to submit to Parliament the document that it says from 2005 that it can be completed by March 2019. If you do not have such a document, Minister, you have lied in plenary about something so serious. And I am sure that the SYRIZA Members will not allow such dishonesty, however persuasive it may be. Furthermore, Minister, in order not to insult our intelligence - because you are constantly insulting us - you said that the choice would be made by 'LOCKHEED MARTIN', I mean the companies that will get the extra money in addition to the ODA. Firstly, we know that 'LOCKHEED MARTIN' has specific companies with which it cooperates in Greece. In fact, companies of your own, very friends, who have seen you in dozens of pictures with them - I am not saying illegally, legally - in exhibitions abroad! So don't tell us that 'LOCKHEED MARTIN' will choose. We know who LOCKHEED MARTIN works with in Greece. So we know who's gonna get the money, too. And I say it because you think the whole House is handsome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u71	Well, well, well, well, well, well,
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u72	Don't you know the so-called "Christian"? You don't know him? So don't make fun of us, Mr. Cammene.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u73	Tell them to be written in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u74	I do not mention people in Parliament, like you. I say that the companies that 'LOCKHEED MARTIN co-operate' know who they are.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u75	Who are they?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u76	And if you were to come to the Arms Committee, where the minutes are closed, and it's not on television, we could, Mr. Cammene, talk to you. But what did you do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u77	Now say it, Mr. Georgiadis, the name of the company you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u78	To put the amendment to the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u79	Say the names. You have an obligation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u80	To put the amendment to the committee, Mr Cammene.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u81	Say the names!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u82	You bypassed the law!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u83	Say the names of the companies before Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u84	You bypassed the law!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u85	Say the names! If you're not a liar, say the names of the companies!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, I am interrupted. You will bring the amendment, ladies and gentlemen, to the Committee on Armaments, as provided for by the law, which is closed and then we can say the names. Not in plenary to hurt people. But I say again, Minister, while we are supposed to have the thriller that you will leave the government today either on Friday or on Friday, why didn't you leave, since the margin of time is until March, the next Defence Minister to bring this amendment to the House, since you are going to leave? Why did you have to bring this amendment to the House a few 24 hours before your depressing exit from the government? Of course, I don't think you're going to leave, nor do I think you're going to do any of this. You love your chair. But the SYRIZA Members must be placed. I am referring to them - because I will not mention names and Minutes, Mr Ballis - because we were in the Committee on Equipment, and we know which Members of the SYRIZA had at the outset expressed very serious objections to the upgrading of F-16. We, as a New Democracy, have always been in favour of upgrading the F-16s. However, many SYRIZA Members had objections. These SYRIZA MPs, who have constantly objected to the upgrading of F-16 to Viper, will now sit to vote on an amendment that is coming at the last minute illegally? Illegally speaking, because these are compensation benefits which the law prohibits, but also the procedure, because this should have been discussed in detail in the Committee on Armaments to see one - which is what companies are.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u87	Please put an end to this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u88	I shall conclude, Mr President. In order for Mr. Kammenos not to mock us, it is not just the companies that LOCKHEED MARTIN chooses, it is also the companies that should then be chosen by EAW as the sub-companies of its own projects, which she cannot implement. So, ladies and gentlemen, the only reasonable solution is to withdraw this amendment. If the Government insists on bringing it, it will first bring it to the Committee on Armaments, there will be a civilised and sensible debate of reasonable people, with clarity and transparency and not 'under the table', as Minister Kammenos has tried to do. Because here we have learned - and with this I am closing down - that apart from the stealth planes, there are also stealth amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u89	All right, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u90	Because we have just learned that he went to the Ministry of Education - no one has learned it - and suddenly comes after the Lights in a contract ratification only to pass through the House, as quickly as possible, through the most rapid procedure, with the most opaque procedure, for something you always say it is a corruption man.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u91	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u92	It will be disgraceful if you do not withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u93	Mr Kegeroglu has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u94	Please, Mr President, I would like to speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u95	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u96	I am presenting to Parliament, because Mr Georgiadis again had a misgiving, Amendment No.9 to the Compensatory Benefits Convention of 11-4-2017, which specifically provides for the end in two years, namely 11-4-2019.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u97	You're saying 2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u98	I'm talking about amending the No.16/2000 Compensatory Benefits Convention, which was ratified...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u99	For the 2005 contract, we tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u100	For contract 16 of 2000, I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u101	But that's another contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u102	Listen. The contract is the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u103	We are talking about the 2005 Spiliotopoulos contract. What you're talking about is Simitis's 2000.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u104	I like it, Mr. Georgiadis, you don't want to be interrupted. That's what I like very much. It looks like a joke now, doesn't it? It's the time of the jokes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u105	But it's a different contract, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u106	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u107	It says, therefore, that the contract, referring to the compensatory benefits: ‘Increasing the liability of compensatory benefits under the Peace Xenia IV Convention by $1.059.715 US dollars as a result of the extension of the two (2) years Compensatory Benefits Convention’. The Department General of Equipment...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u108	That's another thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u109	That's it. It's 16/2000. It's the same contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u110	But that's another one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u111	Check it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u112	It's false the paper you give.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u113	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u114	Look, the Admiral, Mr. Kyriakidis, the Chief of Equipment gives me...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u115	You're responsible for the false paper you're giving.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u116	You're making fun of the House!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u117	Come on, sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u118	I shall table the amendment, which informs me that the contract ends in March.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u119	Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, do you now understand what he is doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u120	Please! Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u121	This contract is based on the Directorate-General for Equipment and obliges us, by 15 March, to have closed the compensatory benefits.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u122	You should be ashamed to give false papers to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u123	Come on, Mr. Kikilia!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u124	Why do you give him false paper?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u125	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u126	I inform the House on the basis of the official documents I receive from the Equipment Directorate. I present it to the House, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u127	Don't give any more papers to the Minister. You're responsible, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Kikilias, you were represented by Mr. Georgiadis. Please. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u129	Mr President, I would ask that the document be given to Parliament's knowledge. It is clear from the way the Minister responded, in search of some information from his partners at the last minute, that he can neither give any answers to the 'grey zones' of the amendment. We, as a party we have ruled, say that today's merits of the Armed Forces are largely due to the armaments programmes that we have decided on. We are the exception that in 2010-2011, in the finding that some have exploited any weaknesses of the institution of compensatory and other procedures, it has proceeded to the large section of 2011 for transparency and security of public interest along with the national interest. For all these reasons, today we cannot accept the sliding of SYRIZA to restore thermostats of corruption and duplication. We cannot politically accept what is transformed and mutated today you are coming to tell us. You who were allegedly talking about the old, you who were allegedly talking about any issues and problems. You are now coming to abolish the country's transparency and institutional armour. Where is the process through the Committee on Equipment, which also shields and puts political forces in a framework of consultation to ensure national interest in parallel with transparency? Why didn't the matter come there? Why did you expect the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security to close, a second institution that could be discussed and then tabled? Why do you come today without answers? Why does the chairman of the Committee on Informatics come to justify unjustified grounds instead of demanding that the committee's chairman withdraw the amendment and come to the Committee on Informatics? This is a slipping, a backwardness in the country's institutional framework, and of course we cannot enter the false dilemma 'but it is a national issue'. Of course, we are the first ones to anticipate upgrading and restoration, but you will not put us in a dilemma, because in this case transparency and public interest are the same as the national one. The citizens are asking for all this to be done in full transparency and not as - as. So it is certain that the 'grey' provisions cannot be corrected as - as in the parliamentary procedure. This amendment must be withdrawn and instantly followed by a different procedure provided for by the law and the institutional framework, in which we have agreed in recent years after 2011, with the great change made to the system for armaments and supplies in the Armed Forces. It is no longer a matter of the Minister, who can manage all this in ignorance of the existing agreements on many issues and at the last minute ask partners. You saw it yourself. The image speaks for itself. It can't go on. To withdraw the amendment and bring the matter to the attention of the procedures laid down by law in the Committee on Equipment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u130	So do we. Mr Pappas, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u131	Nice effort to create tension, but we won't get it! The reality is bitter, it's different. The raw reality clearly says that many contracts, many interests, many of the money you manage in a transparent and unacceptable way. Contrary to the interests, differently from the subordinates of the government, but also from the subordinates of the Civilian Opposition, even though you are both American commanders. So here's who's gonna eat them, who's gonna get the jobs. That's what's going on here today. The debate is also taking place at a time when political developments, political phenomena are fluid and therefore unforeseen. One firm thing is that in 2019 we will have elections. Of course, with a left to the government, never say big talk. Another constant situation is that Mr. Kammenos will cease to be Minister of National Defence. Will it stop now in a week or so in a few months? However, he won't be sitting in that position very soon. So it is the political situation which has to do with the betrayal agreement of the Ambassadors. So Mr. Kammenos, his party, or even a part of his party, says he will vote against the agreement, but supports the government. Mr Theodorakis' 'potomenes' do not support Tsipras but say they will vote for the agreement, except for the exceptions. Mr Mitsotakis of the New Democracy is following the situation and says he will not ratify the agreement, instead of the nationally correct, that is what only the Golden Dawn through the mouth Nikolaos Michalliakos "on time" - when the treacherous agreement was passed in June by letter to the international fora - he said that when Greece acquires a national government it will cancel the treachery agreement. So Mr Mitsotakis says and hides behind 'I will not ratify the agreement' and 'I cannot do anything else unless I respect it'. The position of the false right-wing New Democracy, the patriot liberal party, is very convenient. The only force that - and we must say this, because no one has mentioned - holds a clear political position in the forthcoming visit of Chancellor Merkel to Greece is Golden Dawn. Golden Dawn for Mrs Merkel's visit tomorrow says, expressing the majority of the Greek people, that this is unwanted in Greece. Get out of the way, Merkel, from Greece! Merkel out of Greece! That is why I have taken the floor, in other words as far as the amendment is concerned. Good work, Mr. Cammenene. At the time of the omeric, steadfast, pre-nomination of your conflict and possible departure from your very favourite government oath, in the nearest five of your reign at the Ministry of National Defence, you tabled this urgent amendment with unprecedented consideration for the compensatory benefits of the Americans. You know what I say when I say to the Americans, you, gentlemen of SYRIZA. I say these "killers of the people". So, a gift from the Americans to Greece or a gift to their persuasive representatives? The hypocritical, and it is you who have broken up with the memorial policies of the Greek Defence Industry as a whole, you are now coming and you are pretending that the Defence Industry will bloom with the antidote to be given by the LOCKHEED MARTIN. You want, Mr Kammene, to defend the amendment on the grounds that you are making hot spots for soldiers on Skyros! I say hot spot, because the unacceptable attitude, yours, as Minister of National Defence that you have imposed on the mission of the Hellenic Armed Forces the reception of the aliens and unreliable invaders in Greece, is known. So you are making houses - hot spots, Minister, because Mr Kammenos left - for the soldiers in Skyros, and that is what you say to us that it will be very good and that is why we must literally sell and download them to the Americans. O tempora o mores! I conclude, Mr President, and I say that this urgent amendment to upgrade the F-16 of EUR 230 million, this hasty amendment that you are debating illegally, unrealisticly, against every provision of the Rules of Procedure, you say that it will implement a programme of aircraft of the Air Force, which we know was signed in 2018 after Mr Tsipras' visit to Mr Trump and that it is an essential measure for the establishment, as you say, of domestic technological industrial bases to protect the country's essential interests. And I come and ask: are we interested in Greek, country's interests or NATO's interests? Are you building the F-16 to monitor this air space of Croatia, whose military air force is being smuggled, as is already the case with Albania's airspace? Are you doing it for Greece, or are you doing it for NATO? So you are selling today the last issue in the transatlantic bosses, just before Mr Kammens' possible and agreed resignation for political reasons. Well done, Mr. Cammene! Congratulations! You're not leaving loose ends, sir. Let's see how much your friends American friends will appreciate this and I mean how they appreciate it in your political future. But you will see the people' s appreciation very soon in the forthcoming elections. Now, are you going to leave with a limousine parliamentarian? You're going to leave with your favorite medium that's a helicopter? He'll show. I wish you could leave with a helicopter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u132	Mr. Kikilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u133	Where's the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u134	I'm here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u135	The State Secretary is here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u136	It's you. Let's see, Mrs. Charuha, are you sure you're going to answer that? Ladies and gentlemen, in the light of developments, I have to start with something other than what I intended to say. He said the Minister, Mr. Kammenos...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u137	"He did it"!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u138	No, he'll be back. He said, therefore, that he is coming here to implement a compensatory agreement. Well, the Minister is here. Please, can you stop my speaking time until the Minister sits down?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u139	Come on, Mr. Kikilia.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u140	I'm so sorry. Do you want to answer that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u141	Sure. He's listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u142	If you want to answer that, I'll answer you. If you don't want to answer that, the Minister will come. Thirty seconds I asked you to keep the time for the Minister to come. What's the problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u143	I'm here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u144	Minister, I say that you said in your suggestion that you are bringing an amendment here, which has something to do with compensation, that is, what you and Mr. Tsipras have said since the time of our former colleague in the New Democracy, Mr. Spiliotopoulos, in 2005, and proved by what I have put you...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u145	Excuse me, may I explain this a little? The main contract - now it's been brought to me - is 16/2000. The changes made are for all markets. In 2005 it took place on 21-8-06...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u146	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u147	What do you want? Mr. Kikilis wants the dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u148	Mr Kikilia, let us not worry, the contract is one with 'LOCKHEED MARTIN' for all markets. It starts with S.H.I.E.L.D. 16 of 2000. She's the only one who predicts EO for F-16 and she ends in April 2019. There are no EOs. They were made on every markets with the last large 21-8-2006 for F-16 taken by the government over Spiliotopoulos and then again in '08, in '11, in '14, in '17. It is the main contract expected to end in April 2019 and includes all changes that have taken place so far. It's simple.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u149	Mr. Kikilia, please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u150	So I repeat, ladies and gentlemen, and horizontally throughout the entire Greek society, in order to come to an agreement, because the purpose is for everyone to understand what is going on today within Parliament, that the Minister, who has built his political career in recent years, conquering former ministers, politicians, sins of the Ministry of National Defence, armaments, compensation etc., brings here an amendment that says that it has been in force since 2000, that is, an amendment by Aki Tsochatzopoulos, Minister of National Defence, in which he defends the amendment he brings to the House for F-16, which is not F-16, which has nothing to do with the US Government, has something to do with the supplier, 'LOCHED MARTIN' and the Ministry of National Defence. So it is not Mr Spiliotopoulos' amendment, as he said, 2005. It's Mr. Aki Tsohazopoulou 2000. And with it it is nineteen years later - and not with a new LOA, not with a new Letter Of Acceptance of a new agreement - it must go through compensatory payments, because this is what this is about, in the Greek Defence Industry, which has broken up over the last three - four years. Mr Tsakalots, who signs and has financial responsibility, comes to fund fragmentally, right and left, whenever trade unions and workers are threatening. And this industry cannot carry these things, but it will give other subcontractors, who no one knows who they are, 70% of the 230 million, and 30% of the other directly to private individuals, who are again on the streets of rumor, and again the Minister doesn't really want to tell us who they will be, if he knows. If he doesn't know, there's a matter. In any case, there is a question, because this amendment did not come to the relevant committee of equipment in the House. Some people are in the mood whenever the Minister speaks, about what he says and about the tendency to change his mind and opinion, to mock him. I, in any case. I give a great deal of basis to what the Minister says. The Minister therefore goes to the three Weapons across Greece and states that this may be his last visit as Minister of National Defence and leaks right and left to the press that he is ready to blow everything off in the air and leave for the sake of not voting for the Prespecies Agreement. So, basically, he is a minister on a few days' time, according to his own words. It has been decided for the past few days to bring this amendment of 230 million, and Mr Tsipras and Mr Tsipras himself said a year ago in the House that they respect Greek taxpayers' money and that they will never do to him. So, Minister, I feel that you do not have moral legitimacy, if you do leave in a few days, to bring such an amendment from 2000, under Minister Aki Tsohatzopoulos, after nineteen years, to compensate for what we do not know about subcontractors for 230 million paid by the Greek people because they are entering the contract. This is the political stake, it's obvious. I take the view that my SYRIZA colleagues, in good faith, will accept the withdrawal of this amendment and come to committee. I take the view that there are too many people here who want to ensure the public interest, the last euro of the Greek taxpayer, as Mr Tsipras said, or have joined the view and logic I mentioned two days ago, that here it is the'chair', and everyone is 'dilating' for themselves, as can, in the last days of Pompeii, in order to save themselves or maintain their political capital or not having other consequences and consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr. Kikilia. Mr Athanasios Davakis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, just before the curtain of the Independent Greeks and SYRIZA falls, the final result and the central idea of the whole House, all the members of all the wings, is that the Minister of National Defence falls behind the amendments. He's his dearest place. The most serious thing, the most crucial - I would say - for the future, for the existence, of the operation of the Armed Forces by means of amendments. Do you remember the famous amendment to that article that you introduced union in the Armed Forces? It appeared as an amendment by Mrs Kozobol and then as the famous and fatal article 50. The union in the Armed Forces, which has broken up the sense of discipline, the sense of the care of the Heads for their staff and all that compose the unity and the climate of unity that must govern the Armed Forces, whose political father you are, the union you have brought again with amendment. Now you bring in another amendment. Mrs Kanelli invoked the present political leadership, Mr King, yesterday, that without the Bureau announcing this piece of legislation, you are bringing it to the House as soon as it has been opened. Your friend didn't know that the poach comes behind the 230,000,000 euros. In other words, it embroidered the House for this method of manipulation and you continue this way. You told us that the GFCM told you - this is something very serious, and I am glad that the Director of the GFCM, Mr. Kyriakides, is here - that we do not have to bring it to Parliament, that we do not have to bring it to Parliament. You told us in your five-minute speech - information about 230,000 000 euros, and your legal advisers said you should bring it. A legal arrangement with amendment? Minister, 230,000,000 with an amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u153	Which we get, we don't give.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u154	In what you are saying, we will not disagree because they go to ODA, which is in economic terms and should also be based on 30% of private enterprises. We are the party of the private initiative, the clouds and shadows that are detected by the serious speeches of my colleagues in the New Democracy on this issue. But, in any case, these 230,000, 000 and all that is said by the chairman of our committee, Mr Bali, should not come to that committee, in which you remember that you yourself took us and the phones supposedly so as not to record what is being said? There are things in this House that have a sense of confidentiality, public and recorded in the Minutes. So you realise that you should have convened the Committee on Equipment. And the proposal I am making at the moment is to interrupt, go to the Equipment Committee, submit the relevant documents and all the information from there and forward, as was done in 2017 with Raytheon, exactly the same, the same process of Raytheon we have to follow here. We cannot discuss such a matter, which also relates to the defence of our country and to the matter called the 'f-16 upgrade' and issues which have to do with the strengthening of the Greek air industry and the related private industries in this way. I invite you to take it, to bring it properly, as should, on the basis of the legislation, to the Committee on Equipment, so that we all have the specific position, the responsible position that this party has on all the issues relating to the national security of our country and to have each of our views reflected. You understand that this is a black page in your entire term in the Ministry of National Defence, which is the crown of your coming departure, because months have remained until the governance is over - days, if any - which you support with your vote. I believe that all of this composes issues which have to do with the greatest armament programme currently running in our country. We have stopped since the 2000s to have major equipment programs and the upgrading of F-16 is the largest armament program we have in our country. Do you know, Mr. SYRIZA's colleagues, who will support you with your vote, what does this convention say? Soon Mr Kammenos will bring us the titles of the conventions, we will vote on them - as now, with a description we are voting on - to complete after the individual articles of this convention. It is unacceptable what is happening. It underestimates and affects the parliamentary procedure. It underestimates and affects the issues of National Defence, which at such a critical time that our country is going through are more important than any other political purposes and pursuits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr. Davaki. I want to make three announcements to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce that the Special Standing Committee on Youth and Human Rights, the Subcommittee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Subcommittee on the Combating of Trade and Exploitation of Human Rights are tabling their reports in accordance with Rule 43a(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the House. The relevant reports will be recorded in the Minutes. [[The reports referred to above are in electronic format in the archive of the Special Permanent Committees Directorate.]] Also, the Minister of Administrative Reconstruction, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government - Minister of Economy and Development, Minister of Home Education and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic, Health and Deputy Ministers of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, tabled a draft law on 8-1-2019: Strengthening the Higher Council on Personnel Selection (ASC).)), strengthening and upgrading of public administration and other provisions. It was referred to the competent Standing Committee. There is also a request for permission from NASO Athanasios, SYRIZA Deputy Attica, for an extension of a foreign leave for personal reasons, from Tuesday 8 January 2019 to Friday 11 January 2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u156	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We proceed with the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasio Pafili. Here you go, Mr. Paphie, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u157	There are two issues in the debate at long last. One is the Memorandum of Cooperation with the Supreme Allied Transformation Command. What a stylish expression! That's what you're not making a pussy on. Because everyone except the JRC, you're with NATO. And as Mr Venizelos said, you see the United States as a strategic partner. Even with a government - within eight introductory words - 'left', that is, the American Left has exceeded every limit. It is true - it says - that Mr Pyatt has the interests of the United States in the region with the interests of Greece. Blood, death, war, refugee, these are common interests! Now, we'll necessarily talk about NATO. And SYRIZA, like PASOK, followed exactly the same line: "EEC and NATO the same trade union," said PASOK and then subito in NATO. "To dissolve NATO, NATO doesn't need, it's cold-war, it's aggressive," SYRIZA said. And now it says: "Having NATO provides us with national security." This is the course, and he still tells you to the left! What's NATO? NATO was founded in 1949- and the Warsaw Pact in 1956- to face the communist danger and the rising popular movement in all countries of the world after World War II. He's done a hundred and twenty operations so far. The dead are tens of millions. The disasters are huge throughout mankind. Two hundred sixty Nazi generals served in NATO. The leader of NATO planning in Germany was a SS general. This is NATO and you are talking about the danger of fascism today! So what else did NATO do? Instead of breaking up, as you were saying - because there was the Warsaw Pact, which, unfortunately, was dissolving and paying for it, humanity - extended its action everywhere, beyond every limit, and at the same time held the first war within Europe. He's broken up Yugoslavia. He threw up sterilization bombs. Use depleted uranium. Barbarity, even the obstetrician clinic bombed, schools, everything. That's what you believe in. Good for you! This NATO is saying that it defends national interests and is a good pact. What keeps bleeding people's blood still. What defensive truth? Is NATO defensive? And what's he doing to have six thousand miles of action? Who's the opponent? Today it's Russia, it says, and it says it clearly. And that is not all - and I say this to the government - is there a decision that you and the previous ones have not signed? What do you have to say to the world? That you agreed to withdraw NATO from the first nuclear strike, so that it would hit first with nuclear? And he has the wide signature of the Minister and the government. What are you going to tell the world tomorrow in a nuclear holocaust? Didn't you sign and agree to withdraw from the mid-range missile agreement? What are you gonna say tomorrow? And Russia answers that it is the goal of all the countries that leave, together with Greece. What are you going to say tomorrow to the world? Or do you think he'll be peaceful? You know that very well. National interests. What really is NATO's position, Minister and government's gentlemen, about Turkey's claims to the Aegean Sea? Tell us, did he ever get a seat? "Find them," he says. Doesn't he have a map? Doesn't he have the Lausanne Agreement, which determines the borders? Why doesn't he go out and say there's no gray belt? Why? And you're telling us about national interests? Should we talk about Cyprus? Should we talk about the junta? What national interests? It is the interests of those who defend NATO, that is, big capital, which is painted in blood, and it does not interest either a border or anything else. That's what protects NATO and you swear on it. And, really, what national interests are they serving with Greece's participation in the exercise in Norway? What did we want in Norway? Is it for re-education? No, we're participating in NATO's strategic planning, Russia's curiosity with the largest high schools in its history. What's he doing in high school for the Black Sea and the region? Is it to protect our borders? How many millions do the Greek people give for these exercises and for naval equipment? So let's see about the deal now. Really, I ask: is LOCHEED MARTINS well so generous that she has officially said at a press conference that she has paid, bought, seventy-five UN governments to sell her weapons systems? How does it give Greece 230 million? What for? There will be two reasons. He either wins or serves other strategic interests or both together. Mr. Venizelos said one, and it's right. The second one didn't say. So what do we say? That beyond the rest and the discussion that is taking place, that Lianna Kanelly said, she needs a rehabilitating base in the region. That's what the Americans want. They want a repair base. And, because we're reading too, let's see what Greece is here. American helicopters in Alexandroupolis and Stefanovich, yes or no? Are they serving national interests? Oh, no. Syrian Shipyard and Elefsina and Souda Shipyard, of course. Does it mean anything to you? Repair and maintenance of American ships attempting throughout the region and at the same time, of course, fun for the killers in the region. Third, Drones in Larissa. And we ask, Minister, what right did you give this base? Did you bring a deal to the House? Has there been a conversation with the Greek people? With these new foundations you even give this fig sheet you don't keep it. Because you decide, do you give the center of Greece a drones base? Ask the soldiers to tell you, who have nothing to do with us, what drones in the center of Greece means. That any time it can neutralize everything. Yes or no? And you've given it up and played it. So what national security do you serve? A Greece, a vast American base. That's exactly what you're doing. So, to finish with the ODA, that is what you are hiding, beyond the individual who are really provocative. What programmes, who will take them and decide, says "LOCKHEED" who will give the contractor. How's this thing going to happen? I don't know. Is that true in general?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u158	It's not a secret, people know it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u159	In other words, any foreign company, especially in the field of defence, can give the so-called compensatory benefits, which have been proved to be used, Mr. Minister, who is well aware of it, "take free" that you pay ten times after spare parts. That is the essence, that is, the Greek people pay for it. So we cannot agree and do not agree. We therefore vote against and call on the Greek people to judge all. And the fight that is being fought here is within a friendly struggle, with a prize for who will take the government and who will best serve the interests of the local bourgeoisie, but also in general the imperialist interests in the region, which are too dangerous, because the situation with the major competitions and, more generally, our country is in danger of getting involved. Of course we say that the world, the poor and the worker, must not be killed to win those who win every time in the war, but go on a course of resistance and overthrowing of the whole system.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u160	The Minister has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u161	You are right, Mr Pafile, that EAV will become a great repair base that will meet all the needs of Greece and the allied countries and will work with the infrastructure it will have, so that it can upgrade the F-16 of the whole region.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u162	To be able to bomb, that is, all over the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u163	To work, then, workers. Indeed, this money is owed by the 'LOCHEED MARTIN' in Greece. He owes them all from the contracts starting from 2000, reach the market in 2005, the changes he made in 2011 to PASOK, in 2014 New Democracy, all Ministers - on 23-5-2011 PASOK, 16-7-2014, New Democracy - all Ministers made changes. This one and the main contract therefore ends up with the suma and says that, together with the upgrading of the final amount owed to us in real money, not at nominal value, it is 230 to 265 million. We'll negotiate how long it will be. Here, then, is the question of the money they owe us, and the Venizelos Act, which is the right law that has been abolished by AOE, does not provide that this money will be given. The Venizelos Act does not allow the negotiation before the main contract. So what do we say? It's the main contract. We must now legislate to enable the old liabilities arising from this whole 20-year-old convention to be taken over, to take them to the ODA, to work for ODA and to work for many private businesses. Not one and two, many. Another has cables, another has screws, another has electronic systems and these Greek companies are the ones we all promote and the state and private.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u164	So you get the old compensatorys and you put them here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u165	No, all the compensatory measures which arise, Mr Venizelos, from the main Convention of 1916, 2000, with the amendments that have so far been made, have one that is due from the point of view of 'LOCHEED MARTIN' to us. Your law quite rightly prohibits compensation. So what are we going to do now? Let's go find out on the basis of a proposal from the Legal Council of the State. We don't do it on our own. It tells us that because the Venizelos Act forbids it to be compensatory, after the main contract make an amendment that will allow you the company to pay for it to Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u166	All due to the contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u167	From the whole contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u168	If you'll excuse me...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u169	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u170	Is that 230 million?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u171	Everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u172	Yes, sir. So I was right to say that all the equipment' loose ends are cleared up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u173	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u174	So they're compensatory.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u175	This is the old compensatorys, which under the law of your own, quite rightly, cannot be closed by the GFCM as compensatory payments and we are closing them as an account of the ‘LOCKHEED MARTIN’ to Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u176	So LOCKHEED wanted this because it is exempted from the many contractual obligations.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u177	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u178	That's why you call it an offer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u179	That's why we're going through it by law, because it's not yours, so we can get it. That is not the case, so that there is no possibility of other compensatory measures being made. What should we do with it? Say we don't want them and dismiss 230 million or 260 million and close the EAA? That's the question. I, in fact, understand that these are the moments of this and the political context, so that we want to have a dialogue. New Democracy tabled a request for a roll-call vote on Monday. I accept it, Mr. Davaki. The chairman of the armaments committee is here. If you want, ladies and gentlemen, come and talk about it tomorrow or Friday, we can all sit together with the FIFG.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u180	This should have been before!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u181	If you want now, now. If you want, we're interrupting. If you want to continue, we'll continue. Let's go on Monday for the vote. Come and have a meeting on Thursday or Friday, to hear all the questions, to give all the clarifications. Don't look for a dragon. Things here are simple and all governments have handled them. It is a debt of 'LOCKHEED MARTIN' to us. We're closing the upgrade now. Let's go win this money instead of go left and right. In training in Korea, they went in compensatory terms. We were sending them to Korea to train them. Don't get confused. He told the Prime Minister to put them to the benefit of ODA. We come here and say 'What is the way to legislate and take this money from EAB and some Greek industries?' HSB doesn't make wire. I don't know. I don't think S.A.B.'s making radar control. So let's look at them in detail, if you want, in the armaments committee and on Monday, first God, which has been asked by the New Democracy to vote for the roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u182	Withdraw today and redeem it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u183	I'm not withdrawing it. I leave her the way she is. I would like to say to you that I accept the proposal to speak to the Committee on Equipment and, indeed, to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. If you want, we can also discuss this in the Committee on Foreign and Security. We don't have a problem. Come on, let's talk about it and solve all the questions. If these questions are not solved and the House decides that EAW should be closed and that we should not take the 230 million requested by the Americans, then we should close it. But if there are no shadows, I accept either the Armed Forces and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence, with all the Members involved, to have this debate and bring all the information. It's just here. One and one is two. It is not a strange and wicked amendment that we want to go through. Let's go clean up an account they owe us, get some money - we don't give up money - and we don't have to shut down HR. That's the job. That's what we're going to do. We're not going to hide the businessmen Mr. Georgiadis said. All Greek businesses will get to work. Those who have been involved with the defence industry so far, whether they are small or medium-sized or large, will take a piece of work. I wish they'd get the know-how as well. Mr Pafilis - ideologically speaking man - does not want EAV to become a repair base for the whole Mediterranean, because he has a different theory. What do we say? We're saying we can give EAV two jobs from outside and other aircraft so that we can start up and rework the industry. If there are shadows and you think there's something undercover, you should vote against not passing and giving back the 260 million and closing down the ODA. But, for God's sake, do not use a political circumstance that actually exists at the moment. The Independent Greeks expect us to have a parliamentary group. They're from 10:00 a.m. and they're waiting. We have no objections to discuss this. Put the meeting tomorrow, Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u184	You either drop it or we'll talk about it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u185	We're going on. We're not pulling it out. We're here to hear you. I would just ask that we also be able to make our parliamentary group in these circumstances. I'll answer you for what we say in public. At the same time, we must also do the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security and inform you of what you want and on Monday that you have tabled a request for a roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u186	Mr. Hatzidakis from New Democracy has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u187	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is the New Democracy in favour of upgrading the F16? It is. Is the New Democracy in favour of aid to ODA? It is. Is the New Democracy in favour of further tightening relations with the United States and within NATO and bilaterally? It is. The New Democracy has always said that. The issue arises, as we are talking about a bill concerning NATO, about SYRIZA's colleagues. I still remember in a TV panel in the 2015 elections, I was talking to Mr Tsakalotos, who publicly said what his party said, that he was in favour of dismantling NATO. And today Mr Tsakalotos is one of the two signatories, together with Mr Kammenos, of the amendment we are debating. In any case, I have a number of questions to ask, because there are dozens of questions which arise for this amendment here, and I would like the majority Members to think and tell me if I am wrong. The first question is: why does this amendment come in a hurry here, which - beware - concerns the management of 230 million Greek taxpayers? It is not a gift from 'LOCKHEED' to make this clear. It's in the context of the wider convention. And as the Church says, they are "they of you." It is our management of Greek taxpayers' money! Secondly, the Minister said: 'We did not want to table this amendment in the Ministry of Education's bill because it was unrelated to the bill'. Yes, sir. And there was a discussion of the Days of the NATO bill entitled "Following the Memorandum of Cooperation between the supreme Allied Commander of Transformation and the Ministry of Defence". And in this administrative transformation, in any case, does this amendment come - when? - after the committee. The Defence Committee concludes, the Deputy Minister does not say a word and this amendment, with the 230 million, comes next. Is it reasonable, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? Thirdly, why was the armaments committee overruled? You didn't know? Are we talking about apples and oranges or equipment? Why would you guys who would bring the new and move your finger to us, are you getting involved in these kinds of tactics? Fourth question: why does this amendment come in the days you have spoken - you have said it - for hollows and apostates, and you say in some way - I do not take the cash - your supposed divorce, which has long been announced with Mr Tsipras? Why are you and me so urgent about bringing this amendment right now? Fifth question: Why are you talking about compensatory when this Step in October 2017, the Prime Minister was furious against the compensatory amounts? You said before, of course, that he made an exception for ODA. He did make an exception for ODA, but he said strictly about ODA. And here, if I understood correctly - we all understood the same - we are talking about a number of funds which are 70% of GDP and 30% of other sub-contractors in 'LOCKHEED'. Am I wrong? Am I wrong with you? Am I exaggerating? And, of course, with regard to the compensatory benefits, Mr Kammenos spoke and said that the bill also said it, they are programmes for benefit, he says, the amendment of the Ministry of National Defence. They are not compensatory benefits, they are programmes for benefit. One could say that he's not Yannis is Yannakis. But the Minister himself then told us that he was Yannis very well. He said they were compensatory benefits. Decide what you're finally supporting. Here you support both black and white all and their opposite. The sixth question concerns in particular SYRIZA's colleagues. Did you read the amendment? I guess so. What authority do you give? Permit for 230 million - I say again - of Greek taxpayers: a, b, c, d, e, g, l...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u188	We'll get the money, Mr. Hatzidakis, we won't give it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u189	...and ends in a few rows. We're talking about 230 million in a few rows. But don't you have the sensitivity when you sign, when you put your signature with your vote, when the vote takes place, to have some more guarantees?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u190	But we'll get the money, we won't give it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u191	I do not want to become extremist and say that the House is being washed out of a non-transparent management, but it certainly becomes a trohoder of an opaque management without clear guarantees. You are confronted with your conscience and you need to think twice and three before you vote. We won't let this be forgotten. Of course there are other questions, which I do not have the time to develop, because they really are dozens. But there is also a political question: why, while we talk about these compensatory benefits, which are part of the overall contract, we do not have a picture of the whole contract? The Greek Parliament has no picture of the whole contract. Mr. Tsipras has given other figures, Mr. Kammenos has given other figures, and Mr. Trump, the President of the United States in the presence of Mr. Tsipras, has given other figures. Look out! These figures are not very far apart. We're starting at 1.1 billion and going to 2.4 billion. Did billions become tunnels? Is this a modern and transparent management? Is it a government, Prime Minister and Minister responsibility? Answer me. Maybe it's the words that's lost their meaning. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, I stop asking questions. I imagine you're also concerned with it, because I know a lot of you and I know you're honest people and you have a route. It is not worth sacrificing everything on the altar of party interest. We're all confronted with our conscience. It's a major moral topic. The government must withdraw the amendment, it must hold a debate from the outset in terms of transparency and political purity. For us it is absolutely clear and there is no negotiation in this from the New Democracy. It seems that, ladies and gentlemen, either united or divorced, you will lose the SYRIZA and ANEL elections. Look, don't lose them unreasonably.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u192	Please, Mr. Friend, please come and speak for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u193	As a general rule, the debate on armaments, a necessary debate on the safety of the country, results in a controversy. In the past, SYRIZA's criticism as a opposition party was correct and was confirmed by the decision of the then government and Mr Venizelos as Minister, a forced decision in which, in line with Greek law and European law, it abolished the history of compensatory benefits. Indeed, these were a scandal thermostat. It wasn't a complaint that was sliding by an opposition exaggeration. We have, as you know, subjugated or convicted defence ministers, who are dealing precisely with these cases of armaments and compensatory benefits. We still remember claims that the numbers next to the order of TOR - M1 were not about money but about telephone numbers. These are the old political system, it's not today's reality. We do not hesitate to have debates, for decisions that are difficult to take, concerning the money of the Greek people - that is true - and that is an attempt to make a difficult exit from the crisis to compensate for the issues relating to the daily lives of citizens, while at the same time making the necessary choices for the security of citizens. But it is important that today the debate is open and it will become even more open. I welcome the proposal made by the Minister to become a Committee on Arms and Defence to discuss the whole of the Convention. The criticism we have heard 'why should we go to just a part of the convention?' Let's see it all and judge it. No objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u194	He accepted our proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u195	I have heard that the Minister accepts this goodwill - I hope - proposal and we will be going to a detailed debate on the EUR 230 million agreement, at least, as is said. I would also like to say that the unequivocal statement by the Prime Minister from the Step of the House, in reply to a timely question by Mr Theodorakis that our Government does not intend to reinstate, in one or another form, the institution of compensatory benefits, with little exception of EAB on the grounds that have been mentioned in detail at this sitting, is a commitment that we are making and which we are honouring. All the explanations - I am sure - will be given to the meeting of this committee, which, as you know, is not public but behind closed doors and enables an easier and in-depth discussion of any questions raised. I would also like to say that I am carefully following the interest of workers in the ODA. EAB was and remains largely - unfortunately, during the memoranda period there was a retreat - a high-tech company with added value to our economy as a whole. We must strengthen it and upgrade it. I think that this opinion of ODA workers too should be heard in the committee where we are going to have the debate on this convention. Of course, there are legitimate questions that need to be answered. First of all, how can a private company offer be legally ratified? I heard that the department responsible for the Ministry of Defence, as the Minister said, had said that there is no need for law. But the Legal Council of the State or the Legal Adviser of the Ministry of Defence said it was necessary. To look at this issue too. Secondly, how is it possible to ratify an agreement that we do not know its terms, where the money is going in detail but only with five simple notes? Thirdly, we read in paragraph 2 of the article that any defects, any pendingness of an existing contract as well as an imminent contract are cured by this convention. The 'pre-existing' has to do with the flaw, the 'possible' has to do with the distribution of the work resulting from this convention. He wants that too. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] When the House of Greeks erases outstandings from existing contracts, there must be a detailed assessment and reference to the committee for what they are and what costs they have. When the committee enables the Minister for Defence - to whomever Minister is not a personal matter - to be able to proceed with the legislative shield for the upcoming contracts, we also need to know what they are, what levels and what initial operations are? The argument that we do not share - so there is no suspicion of political money - jobs but that LOCKHEED shares them, is an argument that is controlled, because if there is once a suspicion from the past - two defence ministers are in prison, as you know, about what is going on with this story - there are too many not suspicions but complaints, which are about to do with the reality of business interests, how these big corporations with greater beasts would say the power of the states to work and make their game in every country. So this is not a question that we can go through and leave. We need to talk about this in committee. I believe and wish to stress that since today's very intense meeting - I understand the criticism, I do not want to get into this tension, some questions are justified, I have referred earlier to it - I see that we are going to a consensual procedure, but on the substance of the matter, I hope, a procedure where the Minister, as I said earlier, is willing to heal a mistake, because it was wrong that we were not discussing the matter in committee and we all talk, without taking out knives and suspicions between us. So this is not a question that we can go through and leave. We need to talk about this in the Commission. I believe and wish to stress that since today's very intense meeting - I understand the criticism, I do not want to get into this tension, some questions are justified, I have referred earlier to it - I see that we are going to a consensual procedure, but also to the essence, I hope, a procedure where the Minister, as I said earlier, is willing to heal a mistake, because it was wrong that we were not discussing the matter with the Commission and we all talk, without taking out knives and suspicions between us. I conclude by saying that an issue that is combined with the top issue of national security cannot be dealt with in a micropolitical way. Whether there are any political developments, it is a matter that we will discuss again here. Here is the dominant instrument of the Greek people, the Greek Parliament. It is wrong, however, to try to combine the issue of more general political developments with the issue of a EUR 230 million contract. I do not think that the EUR 230 million is true, but it is this class, limited to the general problem of armaments. I would like to assure the Greek Parliament that this government, as is apparent from the announcements by other parties, such as the Potamion yesterday, will pass through the House, will ratify the Prespecies Convention. So all the literature for so many months that it won't pass through the House has collapsed. The Prespes contract will pass. That's for granted. You will drink this glass, gentlemen of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u196	What about us? You!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u197	I mean those of you who share the logic, the rational criticism that the convention must go through and not the other one that deviates towards the extreme right. At the same time bring a motion of censure to the House to understand - and you will see that - that this government is strong and will remain until September 2019 to complete its work on the benefit of the people's interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u198	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how Parliament is organized and operated, twenty-nine students and students and three educational attendants from the 5th High School of Halandri. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] And now Mrs Bakoyannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u199	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today has been extremely interesting because the next parliamentary day has indeed begun. It was clear from the speech of Mr. Phile - who is an excellent operator of the Greek language - but also from the supreme retreat of the Minister of Defence, that the next day is here, where SYRIZA has now been separated from the ANELs. It was clear that this roll-call vote would lead to a fiasco to the proposal from Mr Kammens' amendment. And that is why we were faced with a change of course, where all that had not happened so far happened by magic now, where the Minister of National Defence - on the road from a socially personal journey to a 'undenominated' - made a stand in this House to bring an amendment. It took a stand, but not any amendment, but an amendment which had not been tabled to the Arms Committee, where the special people are involved, but the Minister has now come to assure us that they are old contractual obligations of 'LOCKHEED' to Greece. I'm confused. It would be crucial for the Minister to assure us if the 230 million are in existence in the upgrading contract, which is now signed by the Greek Government. Is it within this upgrading contract of 230 million? Yes or no? And of these 230 million to be managed by the 'LOCHEED' and the statement by the Minister of State will lead to EAB - can the Minister correct me - is it true that 70% will go to EAB and 30% will go to the management of the normal representative of LOCKHEED, the well-known Mr. Hatzimenas, who will manage 30% in white with the various private companies? And it's like that...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u200	Oh, no. 180 million, that is 90%, go to ODA as net and the rest in spare parts to various companies.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u201	The amendment says so in.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u202	Because I have read this, it will be crucial to understand whether a private person will manage the money that the Greek taxpayer will give and which through LOCKHEED will return to Greece against all the statements he has made today, at this time, from this step by the Greek Prime Minister. And it was very interesting - because I carefully read the Minutes when Mr Tsipras spoke - that as if he knew something, Mr Tsipras said: 'We are abolishing the terrible compensation law', because, as Mr Philis rightly said, two defence ministers are in prison and we know very well that it was a source of great corruption. So the Greek Prime Minister says that if we are to take it in compensatory terms, we should reduce the price. So the question is. The 230 million that we are giving today could have reduced the price by 230 million and given the Greek Defence Minister, in any case, support for the ODA and the opportunity for ODA to stand up? Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment has all the characteristics of an amendment, which must certainly create very big questions in the Greek Parliament. It is an amendment that the way and procedure in which it came, its content, the circumvention of the legislative framework, which we have all voted by a large majority in this House, to avoid precisely corruption, should lead us to conclude that an extremely detailed debate which the Minister for National Defence tried to avoid through his night-to-night amendment is absolutely essential and that the information to be submitted to the Greek Parliament must, in fact, be complete. And it must be complete if we do not want to come back to past practices and see Greece again, phenomena which we would like to avoid definitively. In any case, to talk about my own party, the New Democracy is not going to vote on this amendment as it is. Considers it absolutely essential to submit all the information, and when all the information is submitted, here we are to see how we can support the ODA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mrs Bakoyannis. Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the armaments committee is not a decorative committee. We are not going to the armaments committee, and we simply call back. And it has proved - since 2015, we have been in the Committee on Equipment that you are well aware - and that it preserves the national interests and the confidentiality of meetings, but it has mainly caused overthrows. I remind you in December 2017 that a committee has been consulted on the sale of missiles in Saudi Arabia, and the SYRIZA's position has also changed through discussions held in the armaments committee for a year on this matter. In May 2018 again apart from the institutional procedures envisaged, you came to the Equipment Commission to upgrade F-16 after and not before the KYSEA meeting, to get the agreement again outside the institutional framework. And at that long sitting - we cannot use the minutes of the Committee on Equipment and Parliament's Plenary Assembly, as has been said before - when we have proved that you have not moved in accordance with the institutional framework, all you have left is to muddle through the whole of the opposition. Again today another issue with regard to the compensatory measures now in relation to the F-16 agreement. I have heard you say in your initial speech that you did not make it yesterday, which is why you did not submit it during the committee. Firstly, such a serious issue that we have been discussing this for so long, you bring it after the end of this committee to discuss a bill that has come. First issue. But we are not inclined to do that, Minister. We have asked you for a debate on why you did not bring her to the armaments committee. Because he might not have even come here if he had been discussed. Either we had taken all the assurances from you on many points which we now have, but we do not have time for the very short time in plenary. The procedure for the Committee on Equipment is needed. Withdrawal of the amendment and, as you said, then bring it to the Equipment Committee and tomorrow and tomorrow to discuss it. I think that's the right thing to do. That is the procedure to discuss the issue, because we have too many questions. One more thing, Minister, in relation to the matter. Don't hide now. You have said that in the next few days, if what you say in public is true, you intend to resign. A few days before you resign, will you bring in a 230 million euro contract? The Department of Defense keeps up. The state keeps going. While, in fact, you are publicly on resignation, I do not understand the rush to such a serious issue, such as the compensatory benefits, for which your Government has committed itself to complying with the 2011 Act, and only by thorough study will we see what is going on in the Armaments Committee on these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u205	It's for us to take, Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u206	I know that well, Minister. And you know well that we know. So, have you said in your statements, your Government, that to get us you will use compensatory benefits? And why don't you say the word? Why did you not say in this amendment that the compensatory benefits were clearly defined? Of course, on a question which you have asked, you have answered that it is compensatory benefits. And how did the manufacturer's proposal of a total value of EUR 230 million emerge? These are questions which we should also discuss this week if you wish. On the basis of this reference to the amendment ‘pre-existing contracts or agreements supplementing that transnational agreement between the Ministry of National Defence and that exclusive manufacturer’, what exactly are the previous contracts and agreements, but also those relating to the programmes? How have the programs offered been selected? And who will benefit from obtaining production capacity? What competitive procedure will private companies then be selected? Has the US company and private Greek companies been signed a pre-aggregated cooperation agreement and, respectively, between EBA and the private Greek companies? How will all this be discussed? How are you going to give the Members answers, so that you can start by convincing the Equipment Committee and then discuss this matter further? I could tell you a lot more, but, indeed, on this subject, Mr Kammenos, you have been exposed since the beginning of the procedure. Since October 2017, I had pointed out that we have been confronted with continuing contradictory statements, denials and vagueness. We have reached January 2019 and the situation remains the same. Remember, I had asked you a timely question here in the House, and then we had conflicting answers. We first learned from Trump, the President of the United States, the amount and the agreement. The equipment committee had not been informed until then of anything. First we learned about $2.4 billion, then you talked about 1,1 billion for other sums. Let me remind you that you had "tweeted" that day of the American President's visit to "compensatory" and the next day you took that statement back. And now you come with the logic of compensatory benefits? These are very serious issues. Confusion is increasing rather than falling. For two years now, we have been telling you that we need a comprehensive plan for armaments, we need a concrete plan for how they will be allocated, we need to be given the priorities that the Ministry of National Defence has, so that we can judge and, of course, our position is that in order to tackle any threat, it is not just a solution to the armaments programmes. For strong deterrent there must be continuous monitoring, evaluation of developments, adjustment of operational plans. No one disputes the necessity of the Armed Forces' dignity and a strong country in terms of security and defence. It needs streamlining, without degrading the operational capacity of the Armed Forces and the personnel. These are the serious issues to which we should finally come and not discuss today, on how, in fact, we will bypass a 2011 law, which came as a result of the problems that existed until then, so that compensatory benefits are not allowed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr. Theocharopoulos. The Parliamentary spokesman from Potami Mr Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we must all congratulate the SYRIZA Members today. They've suffered a double strump. The first is that they have devised Mr. Venizelo. They donate Venizelos and do well, rightly because thanks to Venizelos and his law, Law 3978/2011, the term compensatory benefits were cut out of the political and substantial vocabulary, which - as was quite rightly said and developed from all sides - was a greenhouse of corruption. On the other hand, the Syrian MPs, in addition to the love shown by Mr Venizelos, are obliged and we see their bodies put a shield around Mr Kammenos and indeed a naval shield. Who? SYRIZA MPs! You, the SYRIZA MPs, who told us before the 2015 elections, on that vicious - truly - programme that you will dismantle, abolish NATO. Mr. Cammene, what have you done to these Syrians? Today the Syrian MPs are coming around your own body, Mr. Kammene, to save NATO as well and bring back the counterfactual familials from the back door. What did Mr. Tsipras, the Prime Minister, say in October 2017 from these same microphones? I would like to read to you: 'Characterisations for messaging and phenomena are the counterfactual ones. We won't make past mistakes. I leave a window for EAB where it will be strictly costed and controlled." No window isn't that, it's balconies of colossal dimensions! And where's the billing? You haven't told us yet, Mr. Cammene, how much money a taxpayer actually will give. Is it 210 million, 230 million, 250 million? How much is it? But you have been very rushed, Minister, to bring this amendment through the back door. And I ask you, why are you in a hurry, Mr. Cammene? Is this the last bill you're handling as a member of this government? A node of yours is enough to answer me. Is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u209	After the river negotiations, and when you agree, I will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u210	How? I didn't hear what you said. What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u211	After negotiating the river first and finding it between you and the others, I will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u212	I'll answer your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u213	But you have a double door, I learn.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u214	Mr Cammene, I do not use expressions, such as those you have used, but I will now be forced to withdraw one of your own words and designations. You're the king of the ass, because you allowed Mr. Kotzia...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u215	You look like you guys are.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u216	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u217	Let's go back to the bill, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u218	You allowed Mr. Kotzia to go to sign the Macedonian agreement and now you are making a grave rebellion. So I ask you: is this your last bill as a Minister of National Defence, which you come here and bring us this amendment? You're in a hurry. It will probably be your last, but it will certainly be the Syrian partition that will be difficult for them and for you, because you have done it together. I don't know if you had it together, but you did it for sure. Together you brought the Memorial of Tsipras - Kammenos. He's got your name.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u219	I see you good, though, for...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u220	Stop that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u221	Yeah, but I'll beg you to stay on the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u222	This pity of the Minister, please stop her.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u223	Yeah. And you do not address the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u224	Mr. Cammene, you're not in the ANEL Parliamentary Group. You're in the Chamber of Parliament. Show proper respect. Listen. You, along with the Syrians, did it. Together you brought the memorial with your last name. 'Tsipras - Kammenos'. Together, bring 'Rothschild'. Remember the Rothschilds? Do you remember what you said yourself? 'Lord of the make news'. Listen to a statement by Mr. Kammenos in March 2013 from Ierissos Halkidikis. Mr Kammens said: 'Remember the Director-General for the Mines, the right hand of the Rothschild Foundation? They, that is, who along with the local traitors, set us up the story with the memorials and subjugated the Greek people." That's what you said in 2013. On February 2, 2018, you, Mr. Kammene, as a member of this government, invited the "Rothschild" and gave them 3,400,000 euros to become advisers of the Ministry of Finance. You, your government. So who's the nigga? The one who described the Rothschild as the "long hand" of international capital, or the one who brought them to advisers of the Ministry of Finance? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr. President, please. Also, together you did SYRIZA and ANEL. Together, you reduced your pensions. Together you taxed the fixed phone, internet, coffee, beer, gasoline, medical expenses. Together you reduced casino tax from 37% to 8%, Kammenos - Tsipras, Syria and ANEL together. Together you brought the superstition and mortgage the entire property of the country until 2115. Along with your phrases and your charges of last betrayal of other policies, fill this place with dangerous toxicity and divisiveness. Together you said "I do not pay, I do not pay" and on SYRIZA - ANEL days we already have 43 new tolls and an increase, from now to 150%. Together Kammenos - Tsipras, Syrians and Anelites, you have taken the public debt to EUR 326 billion and you have reached it at EUR 357 billion on the basis of the budget figures, which we discussed a few days ago. You will be missed in the Syrians, as I imagine in them there will be corresponding feelings of separation. To get this over with, I want to make something clear about what Mr. Friend said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u225	Please complete, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u226	Mr President, I see that I am the only one to whom you will allow the bell to ring, despite the interventions and holidays of Mr Kammenos. Close the bell. I'll be done in a minute. Everyone has spoken for eight - nine minutes, and I'm the one who lets the bell ring. Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u227	In a minute, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u228	Mr Kammene, since you leave this government - let Mr. Friends know about the Potami - there is no government and if you do not ask for a vote of confidence, then forget the Potami, forget, Mr. Friend, the Prespecies, the Trifides, the Vistonides and the Pambotida lake. Okay? So the river won't become the retreat of Mr. Kammenos. In addition, Mr Philly, I will also close my speech with your encouragement. You said that the opposition would bring a motion of censure if it were to happen. I say to you: bring in, if you bear, a vote of confidence, let's see if you get it. And if you get the vote of confidence, then move on to the rest of your spectacular program. Ladies and gentlemen, I will still be waiting for a reply from Mr Kammenos if this is his last bill, so that we can know whether we really will be glad or continue with the clamble, with your protagonist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u229	Mr. Mitsotakis, I'm responding, not in...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr Nikolaos Xydakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u231	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good year and on my behalf - it is the first time I have been talking in plenary about the new year - with health, clarity and a minimum amount of responsibility as necessary. So I want to begin, with an appeal, drawing experience from the history of the two centuries Greek state. When the big issues of national security and foreign policy came within the field as fields of disgrace, quarrel and political disquiet led to disasters. Our teachings have been taken from the time of the division, when the Greek political world and the Greek people themselves divided themselves against the great geopolitical challenges. We have taken them from the Cold War period, when the international juncture was transferred internally in terms of persecution and mental division of the Greek people. And we have also learned some lessons from the time of the tragedy of Cyprus in '74 and from the climate that followed in the Century. For the first time in Postpopulation, there were fields of clear or explicit consensus and aggregation on some major issues. We can remember the controversies of Constantine Karamanlis and Andreas Papandreou on the big issues of exit and re-entry from NATO's military arm or from the statements made by Andreas Papandreou on non-inclusion in the EEC at the time and its adaptation to another policy, when he took over the government. The only black point, which we can see, when this minimum national understanding broke into the big external issues, was after the end of the Cold War, when the "Macedonian" also obscured the political system for micropolitical reasons and created strong emotions - only emotionally - without the required realism and long-term strategy within the Greek people themselves. This issue that emerged in '92, with a protagonist and then Antonis Samaras, is still being paid by the country and we still have it in front of us. Let us not again make the division between "Venizelism" and "Constantinomism" in the 1910s and the 20s the first political difference in the 21st century. As far as the contract is concerned, there are indeed questions which ask for answers. All SYRIZA speakers have said so. The Minister is willing to give answers. The competent committees will be convened on Friday at 12 noon and Monday, which we have in plenary by roll-call vote, and we will be informed, informed and covered with evidence and evidence of the necessity of this legislation and of the extension. I must, however, have some - on the road - responses to the complaints and criticisms that have been heard from the Officerial Responsibility for the great positions of the government and the Left on the transnational political issues. The Renewable Left - this is the core of SYRIZA, along with all the great progressive and enduring forces that were rallied in the river of history, after 2012 - is obliged to listen to the international context, the historical context, to understand Greece's undisturbed geography during the two centuries of the Greek state and to try at every historical juncture to provide the best profit for the national interest with the least possible losses. The NATO alliance is an anti-legal alliance. Nobody has any doubts. In Greece we are well aware of the trauma that the Cyprus tragedy of 1974 has left, when a NATO ally took the ground from Cyprus, the sovereign Republic. Memorials are still fresh from the 1999 NATO bombings, when NATO planes bombed European territory, for the first time since the end of World War II. We are not forgetting these things, but the question is: will we leave Greece against the military and demographic giants, which are called Turkey, which has been constantly threatening our country since the end of the national liberation struggle and throughout the 20th century, on its own, without alliances, except for any international political alliance on a 'finalisation path', on a satellite course? Will Greece become a North Korea in the heart of the troubled Mediterranean? No, it will join an alliance, the strongest, currently in existence, to gain the greatest possible gain, taking into account both the opposition of this Alliance and the risks. There's no alliance, no international course, no risks. That's what we've got in mind. ‘We have in mind all similar positions of great left forces throughout the war, from the French left to the Italian left of Palmiro Toliati and Berlinguer, in relation to how they were placed. And during the Cold War, in fact, the Spaniards. The Spanish Socialists were against NATO membership. Spain joined NATO in 1981, very late, and in 1982 the Spanish Socialists came to power. In 1986, I think they organised a referendum in favour of NATO's stay and campaigned for NATO. The Spanish Socialists did not "American". They saw a wider balance grid, mediated then of the Cold War. It is not so simple to change to a lonely Don Quixote Greece, with its neighbours permanently and eternally in this geographical location, to this end of the Mediterranean, to the southern end of Europe in the Balkans, to Turkey. This is one of the key drivers, together with our general beliefs on international policy, in order to achieve the historic Ambassadors' agreement. There they must be placed, not only democrats and progressives, but also those who perceive national interests, in wider terms, and now they are being hypocritical - deep, deep liars, deep demagogues. On a historic agreement they carry the micro-political interest and make it a national prerogative and a national division. That's all I had to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u232	Thank you to SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative Nikos Xydakis. Mr Constantine Tasoulas, Member of the New Democracy, now has the floor. We have three - four speakers and we still have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u233	Mr President, I beg your pardon, we have to do the parliamentary group. Since 10:00 we have the meeting. We have to make a break, at least because I've got my colleagues upstairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u234	There are few more speakers, Minister. It's five minutes. I think that in a short period of time we will be done if we have one self-restriction in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u235	All right, then we'll do it properly. I'll talk to you too, there'll be secondarys and everyone will talk. We're going normally till night. Ladies and gentlemen, although the Committee on Armaments is going to meet, they want to speak again. If they want to talk again, let's all go. Regular speech, me, and secondary speech, teratology, let's go to the night!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u236	Ms. Collia can stay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u237	No, Mrs. Collia can't stay, unfortunately. They don't even respect the parliamentary group!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u238	I am sorry, but you have appointed the parliamentary group, while there was the plenary session.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u239	We are all going ahead with a spirit of economy, and I think we are going to make it. Mr. Tasoula, you have the floor, start with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u240	Ladies and gentlemen, in order to change the atmosphere a little, I understand the admission of the Minister of National Defence that all this debate today on the amendment in question is taking place in an environment of political developments in the intergovernmental field, which obviously does not favour the objectives of convincing the Minister for National Defence. Minister, as if you had written about your relationship and your appointment with Mr. Tsipras what I'm about to tell you now. "Cletos, a sympathetic one a twenty-three-year-old, inexperienced treatment and rarely Greek, is ill. The fever has taken place this year in Alexandria. The fever took him out, too, morally, that his partner, a new actress, ceased to love him and want him. The fever has taken place and his parents are shaking.” If we exclude the rare Hellenism, because it concerns Mr. Tsipras the "asthenia", everything looks like they were written by Kavaphis for you and Mr. Tsipras. The partner who stopped loving him and wanting him is you too. In view of this divorce, therefore, in order to change the atmosphere, Mr Kammenos, while he has diluted everywhere that he is leaving the government and is discussing whether the withdrawal entails a breakdown or retention with the government tolerant, he brings an important amendment to a bill that has been withdrawn from the depths of time, since 2004, as a tugboat to this amendment. This amendment is not being discussed at the committee meeting and it is to be discussed in plenary on the assumption that it is a national obligation to vote in favour and that we must vote on it. Minister, you have gone up to your politician Olympus as complainants and you are now coming down to political Olympus as a responsor. Those who earn politically as prosecutors are besieged politically at the expense of responsibilities, which themselves, in their own way, have for so many years been provoking suspicion everywhere and for everything. And if you want to admit that you have done something to the Ministry from which you seem to be leaving, you will remain in history as the Minister of National Defence, who, by way of an amendment to Members of the Left, adopted and legally legitimised the union in the Armed Forces. That's the trophy of your term of office! And today, Minister, instead of dealing with and closing the issue of the pending issue - which, on April 2, 2018, we have heard with real concern - the needs of the Armed Forces, you are presently, at the expense of responsibilities, by law in advance to deal with an issue that the elementary emotiveness would require you to leave it for the next Minister. Even if there is no next Minister, leave it for more time and for normal procedures, which you yourself admitted, just before, by accepting that the committee responsible should meet first and then that Parliament should be involved. Let's just see for one minute, now that the government is sick, that the government's partner has ceased to love and want the other, what you brought for a vote, overthrowing the normal order. You have brought a compensatory agreement to the vote, proving that, when you staged as complainants or as a complainant, this attack on compensatory and pheasantness reminds us of the definition - and this is also about SYRIZA and the explanations given by Mr Xydakis earlier on about the changes in SYRIZA's attitudes - of the sacred indignation. Sacred indignation, said a cynic, is 5% sacred, 5% indignation and 90% envy! So what you've been denouncing for so many years, you've been envying them in depth? Because you do nothing different. Imagine, if we were to do what you are trying to do today and be on the benches, what accusations, what threats, what threats, what threats, what sues, what actions, what actions, what action we would hear about the attempt to reintroduce compensatory contracts, overthrowing the normal order of the procedure and ignoring the Committee on Armaments. I conclude here by saying, Minister, that all this is not corrected by a simple meeting of the Committee on Armaments. This agreement, first of all, has not even come to the Arms Committee. We're talking about the main deal for the fourth month of 2018. We have expressed our agreement on oral descriptions and oral explanations, and now you have had a sixth amendment to this agreement on the management of compensatory benefits, the accumulated previously since 2000! You say, in the wording of this amendment, that in this way any obligations of the past are being closed down. But it's possible that the House will vote, isn't it? Is it possible for you, the open declaration of morality, cleanness, inappropriate management, to ask Parliament and your colleagues on the Communist Left to vote to close any obligations of the past? All this, we need to dig them up. All this has to be seen from the beginning. I doubt that the Friday sitting, which, after all, you agreed to take place, is enough. Luckily, the guards are fast. And the guards are fasting, without being honest or the complainants, simply making their debt seriously, as the civilian staff should at last do from now on. You, Mr. Minister, who have taken a career as a convict, are awaited by the political curse as a responsor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u241	Thank you. Mr George Georgantas, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for five minutes. Consequently, please, in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u242	Thank you very much, Mr President. I've always been consistent in time. I think that Mr Tassoulus, considering what was revealingly heard in Parliament, raised the substance of the matter. The Minister has an argument. He says, "But they give us 230 million euros. Shouldn't we take them?' That is what he tells us, namely that they give us 230 million euros. If that were only the case, we would just talk about how this money was distributed to companies, because that is also a big issue and it would make it easier to debate here. But unfortunately, that's not all. What else is it? It's a eighteen-year-old launder. You are invited, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, in accordance with the amendment, to consider as the only valid texts, which will establish the obligations of the seller, the April 2018 contract, which we did not see and the contract that will be signed after the authorisation, which you will give by your vote. These only two texts will be to identify the obligations from 2000 until now, of the seller. Of course, which one of you is able to say what the compensatory benefits should be, based on the eight previous contracts and amendments, so that we can limit them to EUR 230 million? You know? Was that a billion euro? Was it 500 million euros? It was EUR 100 million and we win, why now is it EUR 230 million? Can any of you say how we launder all the obligations of 'LOCKHEED' to the Greek state on the basis of the previous contracts? How many billions of euros was there? How many hundreds of millions were there? We're saying we're getting 230 million euros. However, as Mr Tasoulas quite rightly said, these texts, between the two parties to take on the obligations of the said manufacturer, will also be the only contractual texts that will apply from now on. So this very big question, which should have been put to you as well and which many of the people who took the floor today mentioned it, was raised only after the request for a roll-call vote was tabled on the part of the Opposition. If, in other words, the New Democracy did not make a request for a roll-call vote today, what would you, ladies and gentlemen? What are you going to get out of this? Understood? I didn't see any reaction from you. I didn't see any objections. He says the Minister says that the particular agreement should come here and get the shield of a law told me by the Legal Council. What Legal Council? Did you see any paperwork? Did you see any paperwork on it? Did you see anything coming? Did you see the approval of the House's Scientific Service for all of this? Did you see what is finally happening, that is, if we have a right to prolong, whether the 2005 agreement or just the 2000 agreement? We put all the contracts in - they are nine contracts and I do not know how many others they may be, but nine of which two ministers have been in jail. And now we come to say that, with the acceptance of these 230 million euros, we erase everything. We should erase them if we really have to erase them, if this agreement is beneficial. I think you fully understand what I'm saying. SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman said that reasonable questions were raised. It is not just reasonable to ask questions. There are issues and questions which should have been answered by the relevant committees in a deafening way. There is much that can only be rescued in one way: the detailed debates must be held in the relevant Committee on Armaments. The best thing, of course, Mr Minister, would be to withdraw today's amendment, but I do not think you will, even though the majority itself speak of reasonable questions. However, I would like you to commit yourself to your dentistry: if these reasonable questions are not answered in the Committee on Armaments, if it is not quite clear that the contract, which will arise after the authorisation for the Greek State, is not only beneficial to the EUR 230 million individually in relation to the outstandingities of the old ones, without knowing what they are and what they are - if, therefore, it is not clear to the committee responsible, you must withdraw this amendment. It is a lot of issues, both legal and moral and political, that are raised. This contract, number nine, is the ninth amendment. It has within twenty-five times the words 'compensatory benefits'. In this way, obviously, you celebrate the end of the compensatory benefits. Colleagues, Minister, this is a top moment, not just for each's political path, but also for the overall assessment of his attitude and the cover-up or not of very dark points, which the world has accepted to be finalised. The opportunity is on you. We'll see on Monday if the answers have been given. Otherwise, if the answers have not been given, you will vote in favour, unfortunately you will be involved in all of this. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We're going with Mr. Theodore Dritsa, MP of SYRIZA. Here you go, Mr. Dritsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Georganta, neither the request for a roll-call vote was expected by the SYRIZA Members nor anything else. Our firm view - and this is what we have come to contribute to this meeting as well - is that all these issues, relating to the armaments programmes, must be dealt with with as efficiently and scrupulously as possible and there are the competent committees to do so, to the extent that they can do so. The Minister, very positively in the discussion process, announced his decision, his will, but also his availability to come to the Committee on Equipment - the date and time was laid down on Friday at 12 noon - in order to give answers to questions that are in fact in place, which are raised by this amendment. When I read it yesterday, with whatever knowledge and experience I have, I have put together a number of questions, which I felt to be not the plenary session of this House the most appropriate, adequate and effective place to allow this procedure to be dealt with and clarified. From this point of view, it is very good that we are going for this sitting - I think that the whole House agrees - and therefore all rhetoric tensions have no meaning before the answers are actually given where they should and should be. I would like to add that the opposition rhetorical cowardice has an autonomous and theatrical dimension and is already recorded in the speech report. However, even the most adequate coexistence loses when it does not respond to the substance. We have watched too many places from the New Democracy, from the Change Movement and from other places with a tendency of tension, as if they were right to the equipment and compensatory benefits. Mercy! To strangle New Democracy and the PASOK for armaments and compensatory benefits, it is not very appropriate! And I mean that precisely because our space for many years has been at the forefront of ending with the compensatory benefits, not because at its core it would not have been possible, but because it has proved impossible in practice to operate as a procedure for real compensatory benefits and was a vehicle of corruption, of duplication and of concealment of real data, compensatory benefits have been abolished by law - Mr Venizelos had the legislative initiative at that time - but until then, the compensatory benefits, which were caused by the major scandals, have never been legislated. It was in the contracts. Here the Minister brings forth a legitimisation, not exactly in the sense of the historic route, as compensatory benefits have been applied, a proposal accompanying the F-16 upgrade programme. She brings her to a vote in Parliament, even in this form and with many questions. Those that caused as a corruption vehicle the scandals had never been legislated. It was within these various conventions. I would add, too - not to overlook this - that, when compensatory benefits were abolished by the 2011 Act, certain procedures for clearing of loose ends were regulated and legislated. These arrangements were so incomplete and so ineffective, even now, not only in 'LOCKHEED MARTIN', but also in many other companies, the liquidation of debts by these companies is still pending. Because it is a wave through a very complex system, extensively constructed, in which it is very difficult to find the edge. So when the representatives of PASOK and the New Democracy, who have handled them from all sides and for many years, do not come now to be indignant because they are drowning in the right! I would like to finish - and thank you for the tolerance, Mr President - to say that I cannot, from a legal point of view, have an opinion as to whether or not this amendment was necessary in order to regulate this issue. I hear the view of the Legal Council of the State, and I hear other views. But what I think, Minister, and I ask you to do so on Friday, which will take place, but also on Monday, when the vote will take place, is that paragraph 2 of the amendment - we will see the other points - states that a contract will be drawn up, following a recommendation from the Directorate-General for Defence Equipment and Investment and an opinion from the relevant Central Advisory Committee. It would be very useful, firstly, to provide that this convention will also come then - when the Convention is established - for the expressing of an opinion in the Committee on Equipment and possibly for it to be ratified by law. This is an insurance policy - study it, see it with the staff by Friday, until Monday - which, first of all, gives many answers to all that has been or has been formulated from here all this time. To this end, we really have the possibility on Friday, to look at each individual issue, and I think we will be able to really, because Mr Kammenos - so as not to be unfair, whether or not policies are going this way or that way - he handled the whole question of upgrading the F-16s. This amendment is inextricably linked to the whole process. I will not be the one who will be prepared to cover or support, but for the sake of justice, let us also have this parameter present in the debate. It could not be a minister other than Mr Kammenos, since this proposal is beneficial - we will judge it and we will see it - to make this legislative initiative. All right, so others could then. There is always a follow-up, but the Minister, who handled the whole process for the F-16 upgrading programme, is responsible and responsible for not evading, but for being present, as he is present, and for bringing this amendment which we will finally judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr. Theodore Dritsa. Mr Nikolaos Toskas, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that for thirty-five years I have served the area of defense. You also know my sensitivities and the pain I have when discussing these issues and more generally defence issues and when we discuss how to improve the effectiveness of the Armed Forces. You also know my sensitivity to the issues of transparency, because these issues of defence must be examined in a spirit of consensus, with respect, as Mrs Kanelle said before, and to try, to look for, to find ways of better transparency and better efficiency. Unfortunately, there is a veil of suspicion - and there will be perhaps for the next hundred years - because what has happened over the past decades in defence matters and this veil of suspicion is not easy to break. This government is doing everything it can to consolidate the perception of transparency. I am going to the subject of this amendment, which will, of course, also be discussed on Friday. I also welcome the flexibility of the Minister of National Defence in attempting to resolve certain issues, because there are indeed concerns. I too have concerns, for example, whether the content of this amendment could be considered at the level of the Equipment Committee, where the programmes would not be as broad as they are in the amendment, and they would be more specific as programmes and as a cost, because - badly lies - industrial cooperation are needed. It is true that the issue of compensatory benefits was a sinful matter. A lot has been done behind the concept of strengthening the Greek Defence Industry and Law 3978/2011, which effectively harmonized Greek legislation with European efforts to prevent the problems created through AOs. But look at what is happening in European practice too. In European practice, all European countries, from the back door, baptising 'industrial cooperation', are trying to strengthen their defence industry, it is not bad. And, of course, there is no gift from the 'LOCKHEED' of 230 million, as is no other industrial cooperation. It is in the context of the general agreement that has been made. I should like to return to the subject of the amendment. Indeed, some things need to be improved. For example, the issue of nominal value is referred to and confuses those who read it, because there is no nominal value anymore. There's one, the real value. Yeah, some issues need to be corrected.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u246	She's the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u247	It's the same, exactly. I agree. So there's no point in the term. The question of whether the programmes should be put in more concrete terms and not be so general in nature is something we should consider. And, of course, we need to see how the flagship of the Greek Defence Industry, EAB, should be strengthened, because - bad lies - during the memoranda and no recruitment could be done and many other things and have many problems. There's got to be an ADA to maintain our planes and other defensive programs. So we need to find ways to strengthen and operate as it needs to be done. There are some issues we have forgotten, namely what other parties have done and I shall refer to the New Democracy on the issue of the state defence industry, where there was the idea of buying cheaper. And we would actually buy cheaper if we did not strengthen the Greek Defence Industry. For example, these planes, if we were to tell the Americans "modernise them in America", they would of course come cheaper. Here is the question of a more general defence policy, which we must take into account and leave the old understanding of what is cheaper and not be interested in the defence industry. We must be interested in the defence industry, because it is part of our overall defence effort. I'll say something Mr. Dritsa said before. We did not expect the proposal for a roll-call vote. We are here to ask ourselves, we are here to press for greater transparency, we are here to look for acceptable solutions and we do not hesitate, when we have a different view. The rest on Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, Mr. Toska. The last speaker is Anastasios Publicos, Member of the New Democracy. Come on, General.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the new year will be blessed, hopeful, lucky and creative. Theoretically today we are discussing the draft law on the placement of a national liaison representative at NATO's Supreme Allied Command General, which was analysed by the Deputy Minister of National Defence in the committee responsible, and which, unfortunately, on a top day for the Ministry of National Defence, is missing from the ministerial headquarters, despite the fact that he had competence to be present, which the legitimate officials of the IAEA have intelligently denouncing. Ladies and gentlemen, his absence certainly has its own meaning. The whole debate, however, has rightly focused on your sudden amendment, Minister, in the shadow of your exit scenarios by the government, concerning the upgrading and modernisation of the F-16. An amendment that contains compensatory benefits, even if you try to justify unjustified benefits in your speech. What the Prime Minister, in reply to Mr Theodorakis' timely question on 27 October 2017, had described as a ferry for hatreds and phenomena. And now he brings them from the back door with an amendment, which should have been discussed in the relevant armaments committee, rather than coming at the last moment, Friday afternoon, of staying the Lights and, in the first place, in a draft law of the Ministry of Education, as you said in your speech. Why are you running, Minister, if you're not being chased? You have staff in a serious, well-organised and staffing strength. And we are proud of these staff. And you could not be surprised, but much more show carelessness. You should therefore withdraw this amendment because it is also an insult to the armed forces' officials to bring an amendment at the last minute. Why should he have come as an amendment and not as a normal law? Before the committee on Friday, we are asking you to present us with all the compensatory benefits that are pending with the US company and to explain in detail how we end up at EUR 230 million. Show us the main upgrade contract that you've been hiding so far. Please inform us of the contract of compensatory benefits from their signature until today. Why have you been hiding the existence of compensatory benefits so long? Let me remind you that the Prime Minister in his speech also on 27 October, had argued that the upgrading of the F-16 would have no compensatory benefits except for the ODA. Apart from the compensatory amounts to be implemented by ODA, there is also a residual amount of around EUR 69 million. Who will implement this amount? You told us about various companies. Who are these? Shouldn't you tell us? What does it mean 'will the Americans decide about them'? Should we not know whether they are Greek interests? Should we not be aware of the official position on the part of ODA, if it agrees with the project under delegation? We respect the members of the Air Force, but also the Armed Forces and the work they are doing. We respect the members of the Air Force and the Armed Forces. The work they do, too, we respect it. We want to upgrade the F-16, but not through opaque procedures. And of course we also respect the allied transatlantic country and we would like to have clear relations with them. Mr. Toska, you said the National Defence united. All the protagonists must, however, act in this direction and prove it in their works. From 13 to 16 December, members of the Board of Directors of the World Parliamentary Association of Hellenism visited Evros from the 13th to 16th of December, that is, MPs and Senators of Greek origin, who decorate parliaments and senators around the world and behind them are counting three hundred and thirty of our colleagues. It's the head of the spear of the Greek community. In addition to meetings, held for four days with institutional actors of local and regional government, with universities and representatives of productive classes and institutions in the prefecture of Evros, they expressed in writing the desire to visit the two Evros Divisions, the 12th and 16th, as well as the Garden Bridge guardry. They submitted their request in writing to the Chief of the General Military Staff. I personally informed the Chief about the entire program. I have informed the two commanders of the two Divisions of the 12th and 16th. I thought they were pleased by this visit, because this visit gave Evros added value, and of course it would also give the Armed Forces, as expressed by the Greek army there. Unfortunately, the Minister, who is sitting on the table today, refused to be visited by those who represented the board of directors, which I said before. They left sad.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u250	What day was that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u251	It was Friday morning, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u252	You're lying. Sunday they asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u253	Friday morning was 12th Division.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u254	Sunday, visit camps and bring people in, so you can show Evros, it can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u255	Please, Minister, don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u256	Every day you want, we give you permission, but on Sunday, I'll put the ghosts on paint, so that you can go and make advertising to Evros, Mr. Publicskakis, forget about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u257	Minister, please don't interrupt me. The first visit to the 12th Division was requested to take place on Friday morning at 11:00. The second, yes, Saturday morning at the Dumotich. But I would like you to tell us this. The Armed Forces and their generals and officers are in all hours of the 24/7, all the days of the week in duty. An customary visit they wanted to make Saturday in the 16th Division. So, a la cart works for the Armed Forces? What are you talking about, Minister? You're talking to a head of a body.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u258	That's the bad thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u259	Finish it, please. Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u260	That is why, Mr Toska, today's political leadership has been proprietary, as has been demonstrated, and even limited energy time and actions of the Greek army. He did so when Mr. Kikilias, the head of the New Democracy, visited Evros. He prohibited the entry of two Members of the Greek Parliament. This is your Minister. Rejoice him! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u261	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the "Rigas and Revolution" educational programme organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-nine students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st Voula High School. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u262	Well, Mr. Prussakis, that's not how the cops talk. You were Chief of the Greek Police.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u263	And on your day, as Deputy Minister of Macedonia and Thrace, the most nationally harmful agreement was signed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u264	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u265	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u266	Immediately afterwards you will have the floor, Minister. I should like to inform the House that since today's procedure does not provide for secondary rapporteurs, I would say that...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u267	Just for a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u268	If I give you a minute, everyone else will talk for a minute. No such procedure is foreseen. You will allow me to follow the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u269	Nothing is predicted. One minute can't be your problem. Excuse me, but the process has been over since the beginning. We want to be second-guessed for a minute and you're going to tell us that we're responsible for the retreat?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u270	No, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u271	Once there are speakers, the rapporteurs must also speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u272	No, it's not like that. We have a ratification agreement, and this procedure is not provided for. Well, the Minister will close. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u273	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we will have the opportunity on Friday to speak without such a timescale. I propose to plenary that at the joint meeting of the Committee on Foreign and Defence Affairs and the Committee on Armed Conducts that OSH workers, OSH workers' union, CSHPY, should be invited to the joint meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, namely the defence industry entrepreneurs, to explain exactly who they are taking jobs when there are contracts of this kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u274	Now don't we have to go second?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u275	I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u276	If the Minister proposes, we must necessarily take a second step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u277	Take the floor. I have no objection, okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u278	He's suggesting a composition right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u279	The New Democracy has chosen today not to do the parliamentary group. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u280	The composition will be decided by the Bureau of the committee responsible and if possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u281	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u282	Now, what the Minister says is something different. I don't know if...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u283	Mr President, let the parties say if they want us to call the institutions. Because if you don't listen to the institutions, everyone will say what they want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u284	But the committees decide on the bodies. The Minister's not suggesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u285	Mrs. Kanelli, because the meeting is on Friday, to call bodies, we will have to meet tomorrow, make a decision on the bodies and go on Friday. I don't even object to that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u286	Mr President, may I take the floor for a clarification? I won't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u287	Yeah. I'm sorry, Minister. Mrs. Canelle, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u288	I won't have to answer for a second, I'll make an explanation. It is obvious that this process has become sui generis, to round it, not to spoil you and the mood of the "blue" you suddenly have. I don't want to ruin it for you. In this extraordinary procedure, you are now coming for an extraordinary meeting, which has been decided on Friday, firstly, because other things are said when the Committee on Armaments is closed and yet when it is being dealt with in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence - so you are making the Committee on Armaments open for the first time, in a joint meeting with the Committee on Defence, so it will be open, it will not be closed - things will be said open, not closed. And after you have done so, without even having met this morning, or another day to propose institutions - I say now - and in order to respect the pretexts, you are coming and suggesting bodies as well. Listen, it's made on the basis of...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u289	Mrs. Canelle, I'm not suggesting anything. Do you want open? Open. Do you want it closed? Locked up. Do you want open and closed? Open and closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u290	Minister, wait a minute to finish Mrs. Canelley.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u291	Based on the proposal of the New Democracy, you made an artificial majority on Monday, to bring all three hundred Members here and solve your accounts.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u292	All right, tell us what you want, and I accept it. Do you want open and closed?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u293	We're not playing your game! We're not playing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u294	Fine, fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u295	You want to solve your accounts with an artificial majority of all Members present with an artificial roll-call vote in an extraordinary procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u296	All right, Mrs. Canelle, I take what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u297	You and SYRIZA must gather all three hundred here to solve your bills and you and New Democracy. Hey, enough of this game!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u298	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u299	Mrs. Canelle, what do you propose? Closed or open? Or both? Whatever you suggest. I accept everything. Do you want it closed and open? But you can't call agencies and hear in here about businessmen. The defence industry's operations must come and their representatives must tell us. Let the representatives of ODA workers come in, get the ODA administration to come in, all those agencies...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u300	If you want me to respond ironically, the only thing you need is the superintendent of this process, after you attack me. You need to call Piat.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u301	We should call Piat.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u302	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u303	I'll see how many people go to Piat this afternoon to ask for advice and apologise for the positions they took.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u304	You're not ashamed of yourself!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u305	Because some people come here and make the heroes in the House and then go to Piat and apologize.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u306	Not to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u307	No, I'm looking right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u308	The ones they're invited to. Piat oversees everything. And write all this in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u309	Mr President, anyway, I am closing down, saying that I will not be briefing myself. I will not answer two very brief questions to answer Mr Venizelos and some of the institutions asked by Dritsa. As to the issue of money...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u310	Aren't you going to answer mine?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u311	I've answered yours. You weren't here. I'll answer you again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u312	If you answered, I'll see the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u313	On the question of lowering the price of this money, which came from the difference in the large contract: we asked for it. And the answer to ‘LOCKHEED MARTIN’ was that it is not possible to reduce the general price as the EAG is not recognised. So, why did we say 1,1 billion euros with 1,1 billion dollars? Because we calculated that the price should be reduced by EUR 230,000, to remove it from the final contract, as we requested. So they could not do that because the American side did not accept it. It does not allow legislation to sign AO, it is forbidden by Law 3978. And that's why we're here today, because we want the legal vehicle. We are now here, because on 15 March the 'LOCHEED MARTIN' may withdraw its offer. It's finishing the 20-year-old contract, which we've signed. This paper I gave you describes precisely the end of all the compensatory benefits of all the contracts. The contracts are continuous from 2000 until now. It's not Tsochazopoulou, it's inside and Venizelos, it's inside the Papantoniou, it's also inside Spiliotopoulos, it's inside Meimarakis. It's inside all of them. It's a continuous contract. And what do they say? We are closing the contract to date, the rest is 230 million euros, we say - and this money is going to go through the EAW, as the Prime Minister said, without any differences. As far as the other companies are concerned, we are looking for the other companies: at least eighty million of the 230 million goes to ODA and 50 million goes to spare parts, which are also needed in various work that needs to be done on these planes. There'll be some paintings to paint the planes, become the wastewater infrastructure, buy wires, buy electronics, test electronics. All these companies go through the US government procedures. And there is no representative in Greece. It has the ‘LOCKHEED MARTIN’ company in Greece, American, with the specifications of Americans who choose their partners. In what Mr Loverdos asked me: EAV does not only accept, but wants to offer 'LOCKHEED MARTIN'. It already has serious problems with facilities, discoloration and colouring of aircraft. And soon he will not be able to perform either the maintenance of the aircraft of the Air Force or the construction work of the C-130J, F-16 and P-3. The ODA is going to collapse and a thousand four hundred workers will stay on the road. If, therefore, you decide - and accept the view from New Democracy - that this money should not be given to EAW, EAW should not be given to the EAW. Our defensive industry is closed. S.A.B.'s gonna close. Everyone will be fired. I tell the House that I, too, have a sin. That is why I am sitting here and practicing to find a solution together with the Secretariat-General and the armaments directorate and the staff that they have proposed so that we can bring this amendment back, which will restore the gap that exists after the elimination of the compensatory payments and give the ODA some money, so that ODA can stay alive. S.A.B.'s gonna die. If we want, as the other defence industries have died, let's make a decision. Mr. Loverdos, nominal value is real value. EUR 230 million is EUR 230 million. EUR 260 million is EUR 260 million. They do not correspond to the coefficient for ten and so on. The real money, which will enter the ODA, is EUR 180 million from EUR 230 million and EUR 50 million around - around the other industries. It's the houses that will be made for the staff. For Mrs Canelli: EUR 200 30 million is because finalisation will take place in the final negotiation, which is estimated to reach EUR 260 million. How many are the planes? It's eighty-four. They are raised with $1.5 billion or 1.2 billion euros, which will be reduced by 10% in the final negotiation. You said about Europe. Let me briefly inform you that Belgium on the order before day before year for F -35 demanded an AO donation. And they said 'we don't want EO', but they asked for a donation for their local industry. The amendment at first entered the Ministry of Education because we were in a hurry to vote on it. Because if it does not pass within the next few days, they will not be able to negotiate and sign the final text. Whether it's me or it's another Minister, the services will work. But the services, in order to be able to conclude a contract following the mandate to be given by the House to make legislation, want at least one, two months to end. The American side must sign. I'll see who's going to take responsibility if we lose the money. If we get to the point, that is, 230 million euros do not come to Greece, they do not go to ODA, why will the time be, who will be responsible? I don't have the responsibility. And that's why I'm asking him to go in the loft. And because you asked about the procedure, the Department of Defense a week ago testified it to the parliament. I was asked by the Secretary-General of the Government - and rightly so - that we could put it in a contract by the Ministry of National Defence, not to put it in the Ministry of Education. And they accepted it. So we come here today and it becomes a whole story because everyone wants to make their show. Tell me one another about Kavaphis, why we didn't open up the camps to take a walk on Sunday, his guests. It can't be done. The army, the Armed Forces, is not to the pleasure of friends and to walk on weekends. General, has there ever been a camp opening for a weekend? I'm not going. And the Undersecretary doesn't go. And the Deputy Minister doesn't go. And the Chiefs aren't going. Do you know why they're not going? Because when he's going to visit a camp an official, there's got to be a preparation. So, should we keep inside the kids that come out this weekend, if we don't have to, and there's no defensive needs, for everyone to take a walk? Oh, no. I'll never open the camps like this. Never. I have not addressed any party to attend. We asked it to be without cameras. We've asked to be briefed by the commander. And that's what you have to respect. Also, Mr. Publicschakis, when you go out and talk, you should know that all the works in Evros are being done right now by MOMA. And you come and say why the MOMA is doing it. Who's gonna do it? 25 million workers with these assignments? That's over, Mr. Prison. The 25 million contractors are over. Don't ask why MOMA's doing it. When we first went to the rains, you said "happily that MOMA is". Now you're going to make a review.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u314	You're in another era.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u315	As to whether the upgrading will take place in Greece: The upgrading, if not done in Greece, will actually cost less. But if this upgrade is not made in Greece, Greece will end as a defence industry. Aircraft should go elsewhere. And the cost of transporting aircraft will not give us a cheaper price in India to go to America as well. With regard to the important framework of 'LOCKHEED MARTIN' with ODA: it requires the possibility - for Mr Twelfths, I say this - of ODA with know-how and modern facilities to carry out the programmes. This possibility of ODA is upgraded and modernised. The price of the main contract was thus guaranteed by the US Government. And he says that in the LOA he doesn't recognize EO. Therefore, it is not possible to deduct this money and is in excess of the work of the EOs. Another thing I heard in here - I read it on various websites - is that I was at princess weddings, etc. I wasn't even at princess' weddings anywhere. I was on a private trip. I don't usually go to Mykonos or to the weddings of princes. Others go to princes. With regard to ODA knowledge: ODA has knowledge. It currently has many-year-old workers, who are also certified. And if they don't keep up with work, they'll grow old, lose know-how, lose specialty. And so, we're going to lose the ability to maintain our own resources. You asked me whether there are problems of cooperation between S.H.I.E.L.D. and RANDAR, and whether they are 750 million people. I read that, too. We are told by LOCKHEED MARTIN that there are no problems of cooperation. However, a large sum has been charged to the existing amount in order to meet this need. These are the questions that have been raised by my colleagues. I don't know if Mr. Kedicoglu wants anything else. However, what I would like to do in the Committee on Armaments is the following: you will also get the main contract, the LOA
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u316	I'd like to make a suggestion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u317	I'll give you the floor, Mr. Kedicoglou. Let the Minister finish first.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u318	You'll get the stuff. We will also give you the list of the reallocation of the amount, which clearly shows where they will go. Private companies, which will take not 30%, will come too, but 10% through their links and who will say who they are. They'll say it themselves. The 'LOCKHEED MARTIN' will also come, if you like, which can analyse with what procedures she chooses. That is what I can do for transparency. Now, if some of the ideology you don't want, take the decision and say you don't want the upgrade, not the Greek industry, to close the ODA and finish it. I do not take such a responsibility, however.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u319	Good. Mr. Kedicoglou wants to ask. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u320	It's purely procedural. Thank you. Because I agree that it must be EAB certainly, I would suggest that the committee meeting should take place in two places and, if possible, first we have to listen to the bodies, namely EAB, the representatives of our defence industry, and then we have a debate behind closed doors, because EAB has no idea, Minister. The paper I deposited, I want you to look into it. It is ready to carry out a project of 88 million euros. The other 100 you say have no idea. In fact, it was a process. It's not tunnels to say that 88 is 200, because...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u321	Get my cell phone. The President and the Vice-President are sending me continuously notes on the systems. How do they have no idea? If that's possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u322	Good. Take the detailed list of what the work is doing, because if that list were to be found in today's amendment, otherwise the debate would take place. We all want the survival of the ODA, we all want our defence industry not to be lost, but to be right. It is therefore my proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u323	I accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u324	Good. It is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" Hall and informed about the history of the building and the way this House organizes and operates, thirty students and students and three teachers from the 3rd General School of Alimos. The House welcomes them. Today we discussed the ratification of an agreement. As you know, the House has two functions in plenary, in which you are in. One is to discuss bills and pass laws. The second procedure is parliamentary scrutiny, i.e. the Members of all the parties exercise control over the government, the Ministers, and there is a debate within the House. In fact, these meetings are open, that is to say they are broadcast on television too, so that people can learn from us what is going on in this Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, on how we are going to proceed, I would like to say that what is provided for in the Rules of Procedure is for the committee to meet, for the committee itself to assess exactly how it will work and then we will have the vote on Monday. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: "Following the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Supreme Allied Commander of Transformation (SACT) and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic on the placement of a National Representative of the Association at the Headquarters of the Supreme Alliance of Transformation and the Exchanges of Letters extending the validity of the above Memorandum". On the Ministerial Amendment No 1898 and a special 91 of the draft law, a request for a roll-call vote by Members of the New Democracy, to be held on Monday 14 January 2019 at 12.00 hours, together with the vote on the principle, articles and the entire draft law, has been tabled. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-09-S1-commons.u325	With the consent of the House at 13.50 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 10 January 2019 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, discussion of current questions.
