ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 184-2019 mandate, the minutes of its RIG sessions, Thursday 18 April 2019, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Competitions of Personnel Services, Military Staff Regulations, Military Law, Military Justice and other provisions’, were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau.]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Requests for waiver of immunity: Debate and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament, Aristides Fokas, Marios Salmas and Andreas Loverdou. The report was announced by the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics on 18-2019, according to which the members of the committee proposed, by a majority, that Mr Aristides Fokas be removed. The report was announced by the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics on 18-2019, according to which the members of the committee proposed, by a majority, that Mr Marios Salma's immunity should be waived. The report was also announced by the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics on 18-2019, according to which the members of the Committee proposed, by a majority, that Mr Andreas Loverdos be removed. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the Parliament shall also decide, by raising the hands or making the request of the public prosecutor in accordance with the procedure referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 108(1). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that, in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents at its meeting of 7 March 2018, the new electronic roll-call system has been activated. So since the debate on the cases of today's Special Agenda is closed, we will proceed to a roll-call electronic vote, as I said before. The first case concerns Mr Aristides Fokas. Is there any colleague requesting the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u2	I would like the floor, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u3	Mr Fokas, according to the Rules of Procedure of the House, you have the floor for five minutes, of course, with tolerance. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2012 we started together with my wife a court dispute over a private construction company. To date we have been entitled to 1 degree, but also to the appeal, to the lawsuits we filed and followed by the lawsuit to us for slandering. In this court, which took place about three months ago, although I was present, I was not given the opportunity to defend myself. My wife was fabulously acquitted, and so do I. That is why I would ask you to vote in favour of the lifting of my immunity so that I can defend myself, my honor and my family. Thank you. To supplement - and to say hello to the Minister for Foreign Affairs - that following the vote that will follow, the topical and urgent question we tabled to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Panos Kammenos and his parliamentary group will be discussed. Be here. It'll be very interesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u5	Thank you. The second case concerns Mr Mario Salma. Is there any colleague requesting the floor in accordance with Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u6	I would like the floor, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u7	You have the floor for five minutes, with tolerance, Mr. Salma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u8	It doesn't say time, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u9	It is a general debate. How much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u10	Fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u11	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, 20 years I am now completing my election - eight times - congressman. I am one of the few Members who have never come, but never, for my waiver of immunity in these twenty years. Today's the first time. The head of the prosecutor's office wants to take my view on a matter that has been investigating for two and a half years, the infamous arthroposis that took place in 2015 and 2016 on the SYRIZA Government, and that is why he asks for my immunity to be waived, in order to explain. I would like to make it clear that in the case of arthroposis, as far as I am concerned and my medical diagnostic centre are concerned, it has all been legally, as suggested by the administration, and not as I have indicated in the administration, nor as I have supposedly affected the administration to point out, and much more I have no reason to influence it. It all happened in the interests of patients, who I serve as a doctor and as a human, for decades with absolute morality. We're going straight to the point. What does the D.A.'s messenger say? 'Indications of moral automobiles in infidelity'. Moral automobile for three events: First, the conclusion of an EEA contract with a diagnostic. Secondly, the conclusion of an ECOFIN amending contract with a multi-medical institution. And, thirdly, for non-legislative referrals, that is, they didn't have stamps and signatures of insured. That's what he says. In detail: First, moral automation for a contract made by the EOPY with my doctors' diagnostic laboratory, which was not legal, says, because it was diagnostic and it was not a multimedical hospital. That's what we're talking about. This is the infringement of Article 2(3) of Presidential Decree 84/2001. That is, that I affected a contract with a diagnostic that did not have the appropriate form of primary care. But in the form that the company should have and be diagnostic, EEAY indicated it. Diagnostic said EEAY, diagnostic happened. If he indicated a polymedicine, as subsequently done, he would become a polymedicine, as he then became. Simple as that. But this EOPY document, which indicates the diagnostic, does not exist in the file. I will present it to my explanations and remove any other impressions. Simple as that! The polymedical office - to understand it in here - wants seventeen same documentation that the diagnostics - wants exactly - and it has the same standards. Even the EOPY Convention form is the same for multimedicals and diagnostics. Proof that the EEAS sees them as a single contract. And I had absolutely no reason to force the administration of the EEAS to make a contract with diagnostics rather than with a polymedicine. Now, the paper of the company suggesting it should be in the form of a diagnostic, would be in the file if the inspectors, who made the reports, had taken care of the article 80 of Law 3996/11 and called for explanations of the diagnostic before finding a finding, as foreseen. In this way, the prosecutors would not be lured into false impressions and assessments. There goes the first. Secondly, a moral automobile - now listen - for a non-legislative amending contract with another polymedical centre which I had nothing to do with because the Voridis decision was not published in the Grogau decision and was not a CFD. What's my fault? So, I went to the EEA, and I said, "Do a contract with a competitor with my polymedical practice?" and ‘Contract even if the decision to cost the examination has not been published in FEK’ or the prosecutors have indicated that I affected an automotive operator not to send to the National Printing Office the decision of other Ministers and to post it to the ‘DICAH’; And you're not telling me who this automotive worker - who, at what address - told him not to take it to the printery and take it to the "DIAGY"? Because, as far as I know, the Minister doesn't take them - those who have made Ministers - hand to hand his decisions at the printery. I mean, I affected someone to make a mistake in the process. I'm sorry, but that doesn't work. I saw the case-file, and I understand what the prosecutors mean. However, to be honest, neither the authoritative lawyers and distinguished former Supreme Judges, who showed the case-file, understood. For this contract, no such objection was raised to the EEAS Board, which decided unanimously and according to the recommendation of the contract director, including the legal service and the relevant contract director. But neither is this suggestion - by chance! - is included in the case-file and neither is the decision of the Board of Directors. It will be included shortly. No one, ladies and gentlemen, has contributed to the preliminary examination to date - nor will I - of this kind of involvement of the prosecutor of any responsibilities. And I ask: Where did it come from that I affected the conventions, as it says? Nowhere. And how does he want my opinion for explanations of something that no one accused me of? And who judges the legality of contracts? HYPOGRA Pharmaceuticals Inspector? These aren't serious things. Thirdly, a moral automobile for five hundred and forty-three non-legislatives, all non-legislative, except sixty-three, who are law-abiding, but then again it says that they are all non-legislative. In other words, it is a sign of incredible clandestineness, where the prosecutors made the inspectors' opinion. These typical deficiencies, which we are talking about, were identified by the administration and healed. What can we talk about now? They're not a criminal offense when the tests were carried out. And this is evidenced by court and jury statements of all patients. I will mention in detail: The primary control of the formal deficiencies of the referrals is carried out by the responsible Directorate of the Agency and the secondary, if necessary, by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The primary control of the EEA has identified the typical deficiencies - where they exist - for its references to diagnostics. And what did he do? Everything he did for all providers, hundreds of diagnostics and clinics. A procedure was followed, which was indicated by Ministerial Decision of Mr Polakis and a decision of the board of directors of the EEAS appointed by SYRIZA. Sampling was carried out, patient responsible statements were requested that the examinations were carried out and submitted. The submission of the claim by the audit team and by decision of the board of EOPY - what SYRIZA appointed on 29-6-2016 - was then finalised, the warrants were signed by the manager and were paid by Mr. Georgakopoulos of SYRIZA, the vice president of EOPY, who instigated the whole issue. By way of example, for the two-two-two-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three months after the first-three-three-three-three-three years, and then the first-three-three years. So why does the transmittal say all the references are non-legislative? And who told the prosecutors that for the period June 2015 to April 2016, when the diagnostic performed the three hundred and sixty three tests, where he says that there are no signatures from the insured, that they needed insurance signatures, since on 2 May 2016 - retrospectively - Mr Polakis' ministerial decision makes it compulsory? Didn't anyone tell the three prosecutors that the absence of the signature of an insured person was not even a ground for annulment of a referral? Did they not see the EERC's instructions to the audit firms that wound up in 2014, 2013 and 2012, that the lack of signature of an insured person does not constitute a reason not to pay the referral? The stamps and signatures are to check if the tests were carried out. The patients gave a sworn statement. They said it was done and it's over. I have other arguments. Article 19 of the Convention says that when you see formal deficiencies in referrals, they are returned to the provider, supplemented and re-submitted. But who of the inspectors tells the prosecutors this? Nobody. What does typical delusions have to do with infidelity? This is unprecedented. Are we going crazy in here? These aren't serious things. I'm sorry. These are the issues. I have nothing more to answer. But, ladies and gentlemen, the question is rightly raised. Can the prosecutors make such a mistake? As is clear from the Prosecutor's letter, the public prosecutors were based on three partial reports and a note of findings. The two donor reports are from two DYPEVA inspectors - one pharmacist and one doctor - and the third is the public administration inspector. The note of the findings is from the general inspector of the Ministry of Defence. Of these findings, the prosecutors made a copy and made the transfer. And it must be answered whether the findings are reliable or are not, and if not reliable, whether they are set. If he answers that he is unscheduled - even one - then it cannot be documented as a political device. No way. Politics presupposes a set of findings, which will lead to the prosecutors in the wrong picture and appreciation. And we're talking about the preliminary, where prosecutors have commissioned investigations to inspectors. Do we agree? None of the findings mention my own name - except as a referral doctor - and none of the findings leave anything for me or for my medical specialist. I would have no reason to insult the validity of the findings so simple, because they don't say anything about me and the diagnostic. But I'm going to try to prove the forming, even if the findings are correct. This case is the definition of manufacturing. And because it is severely reproaching when a politician throws it, I describe it and I provide sufficient evidence. The empathy, the humble motives and the party property of EOPY Vice President George Georgakopoulos, a SYRIZA elite in Achaia, lead him, after taking over to the EEAY, to send the first days internal document to the information technology he says, "Get me of the Salma arthography". Be careful, "Get me the arthroscopy Salma!" Why was he so mean? Because we caught it with a conclusion of the Health Inspectors' Corps, which came to my office at the end of my term, with the "street on the back", as a doctor in 2008, when the earthquake of Patras broke down the half hospital "Saint Andreas" and the intensive unit that he worked, he was paid five months on paper that he never did. And this is reflected in the findings of the Health Inspectors. But because it was a flood it was deleted in five years. He also charged me with moving from Patras to Agrini - the hospital in my constituency - when I was Minister, to cover for a month. He tells Mr. Polakis who, on 28-9-2016, says to the House: "From what I learned, the Corruption Prosecutor went and picked up the whole file why they didn't give it. He will get there scorpions, jewels and forty-footers." That is, it's true, never happened until he said it. In other words, Mr. Paulakis proclaimed from this Step, as if he had ordered what was followed, that the Corruption Prosecutor dealt with and requested the file. Why didn't the Prosecutor's Office, for example? On December 15, 2016, three months later, I come up with a strong controversy with Mr. Polakis in the House - remembering it - which repeats that the prosecutors have dispersed the natural file of the referrals. And when I told him that's not the case, the next day, on December 16, 2016, the Corruption Prosecutor asks the physical file from the EEA. Oh, what a coincidence! It was then necessary to give the impression that the tests were over-collected, to talk for two years about over-cost scandal. Mr Georgakopoulos has undertaken to initiate the procedure for the re-examination of the examination. The work was undertaken by his friend also from Patras, a member of SYRIZA and a nominee of SYRIZA's nominee in Achaia, his colleague at the "Rios Hospital", Mr Markos, President of the KESY and the Vice-President of the KESY, Ms. Nicholas, Chairman of the Committee on Costification and Statement of SYRIZA in 2nd Athens. They took over to make the new cost. By deceiving the ERC's Plenary Assembly that the Orthodox Greek Society allegedly proposed a price of 400 euros - which never happened, as is shown by the relevant document of the President of the Greek Orthodox Society, during the period I submitted to the Committee of Inquiry - it leads the Plenary Assembly to take a decision on a new price. So the new price was set by fraud. That's clean. The work was completed by Mr. Paulakis, who arbitrarily lowered the price from EUR 400 to EUR 300 alone to create land of allegedly price difference and suspicion of damage, but never any provider did any examination at this arbitrary virtual price of EUR 300. In order to provide evidence of a so-called scandal, they decide that there is also a need for reports that "knowledge" a category. In '17, they commission two inspectors to check that they find illegality and public damage. The two inspectors of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are not mentioned anywhere in me and the diagnostic for involvement in an illegal act, nor that there has been a public damage, even though the General Inspector of the Ministry of Defence, Mr. Spyridis, expressly asks them. On the contrary, one of them says that the responsibilities of the new administration of Berchimi - Georgakopoulos should be investigated. So since the inspectors did not find any damage to Spyridis and asked for the responsibilities of his companions Bercimi and Georgakopoulos to be investigated, Spyridis said to write it himself in his own note. He had to do the dirty job, write that the contracts were illegal, say there was damage and erase the investigation of any responsibilities of the new administration of the EEAS. Who, though, is this Spyridis the great guy? Spyridis the dreadful, General Inspector of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is a member of SYRIZA, a candidate for the mayor of SYRIZA in Alexandria Imathia. They put him in that position why? To do the job. What's this job? To implement the Polakis doctrine, to close some in prison. Inspector General Spyrides, however, has no legal right to make reports, rather than simply transmit the inspectors' reports. Mr. Paulakis - listen - changes the whole EEAS Benefits Regulation on November 1, 2018, while completing the findings in the Committee of Inquiry, in order to add Article 58 that gives the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs the right to introduce a liability charge to the EEAS. Spyridis writes in a findings report on November 28, 2018, five days before the conclusion of the committee of inquiry to the prosecutor that the contracts are illegal. He says so. Note: Veroia's pharmacist does the professor of administrative law and judges the legality of a contract, which has indirectly been judged to be legal, to be the case, by the officials who signed the submissions' payment orders. He adds: "Extent..." - says - "...is unfair to contracts..." - the pharmacist Spyrides - "...and by object creates damage" and eliminates the proposal of an inspector to investigate responsibilities Birchimi - Georgakopoulos and distorts - hear - the two proposals of inspectors who no one counts a single euro in diagnostics, but he does so in this report on November 28th, five days before the conclusion of the Committee of Inquiry in the Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Office is sent. On December 3, in a hurry, Mr. Georgakopoulos also makes a decision illegally for allegedly returning, on which Mr. Pavlossis is moving to get a press release from his office on December 3 that Salma's wife is returning money. After seven days, my wife went and asked for what Paulis said and so far, four months later, they have not sent such a decision and - shamefully the other day - sent an e-mail "now you can come and get it" in the light of today's debate. Who, though, is this Spyridis, who put Mr. Paulakis in charge of the Ministry of Defence Control? Listen to the sound. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Marios Salmas, presents the audio document, which does not sound]] [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Listen. Respect that for two years I have been afflicted. Don't laugh. Respect a man...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u13	No one's laughing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u14	Not you. I didn't say anything about you, but backwards. Respect a man who has been allegedly speaking to him for two and a half years on a case, and today I have come to prove the political process. Thank you. What Mr Spyridis said now, what you heard, at a pre-conference event of SYRIZA in September 2016, when Mr. Paulakis brought the matter to the House for the first time: "We now have a tool, the government, and the party must support the government. And if we don't use the tool now to put some prisoners in prison, we didn't do anything."
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u15	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u16	"Jehovah" I say. Mercy! With this type of illegal report, the prosecutors are asking today for my immunity to be waived. For the first time in twenty years, ladies and gentlemen, I have been in the process of waiving immunity and I see my fellow Members not respect the apology. Even in ancient Greece, a man’s apology, his statement, all respected it. But that's not what I want to describe.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Salma, limit yourself now, because it's time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u18	It's not an apology.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u19	It's not an apology, but I'm forced to document a political process. All the time, what were we talking about? Why is it political? So it's justice too? I honestly told you today that I will prove the form to the findings, because the prosecutors have not done their own inquiries. It was assigned to the findings, everything they read sent. So I am obliged to my family, to my patients, to my friends, to my voters and above all to you, who twenty years have all shaped an opinion on each other, to prove that it is a political projection. And to God, it is not about you MPs. However, I very much describe what it is about. The prosecutors, ladies and gentlemen, did not read the statement of Georgakopoulos on the Committee of Inquiry saying that no damage was caused, the budget was not charged, because it is closed from these examinations. They didn't even read Mr. Blonde's statement in the debate a month ago on drugs and increases. What did he say? 'Due to a closed budget and exceeding the ceiling, no damage is caused', nor by Mr Kurublés, when a committee of inquiry was requested for him who said 'I have not obtained a price report, it has not affected and has not damaged the public because it has a closed budget'. Even the report by the Public Administration Inspector has read that, while he is clearly asking the prosecutors to determine the damage, he does not do so. On the contrary, it says that there is a budget that is closed. Nor did they read the case-law. To do - and I slowly conclude with this - in simple words the assumption that the two providers with the arthroposis voluntaryly go tomorrow morning - as Mr Lappas asked yesterday - and they return the whole amount back and make it free of charge. Would that amount go to the state? Of course not. The 2015-2016 clawback would be redistributed. In the record of the notorious EOPY discussion on December 3, it is also said by the Director-General for Finance in his notorious suggestion of '18, the one they asked was supposedly the money back. They wouldn't go to the state. The percentage of clawback will be redistributed to other providers. From this money they will go to the other providers who have run diagnostic tests a little while and 30% will go to a large group.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u20	Mr. Salma, how much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u21	I shall conclude, Madam President. Since the State does not benefit from any refund, how is the original payment damaged? But now the case is interesting. Why was it so anguish to pay back money and go to other providers and 30% to a large group with 30% of the diagnostic turnover, Mr President? But because in this group it has been closed since the autumn and today the sixth partner of the construction, Mr. Bercimis, has been working as management adviser, the until two months ago, the president of the EEAS that you have put in. Shame on you! [[Noise in the Chamber]] It is not the shame of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u22	Who is it for?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u23	Please, Mr. Salma, finish because there is no other tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u24	In other words, in simple words, if the Bercimi decision is implemented on 3-12-2018 for a refund of the money back, the group that Mr Bercimis works today will take 100,000 euros. That is why I said'shock' and say it again. Shame on you! Do I say, by stopping the arrows of 2016, this group benefits, since it does not increase the overall requirement of providers and does not pay more clawback? It's like that. It would be drawn, you'll tell me, but there are other decisions that have benefited the group and Mr. Polakis and the administration. But it's not at the moment. I will only tell you that the increase in the closed budget for diagnostics in 2018, signed by Mr. Paulakis at 357 million instead of 302 which was in 2015 and 2016, damages the state budget of 55 million arbitraryly, without being authorised by law and why he should do so and benefit the group that Mr. Bercimis works today, EUR 15 million. All this sequence of events, ladies and gentlemen, which I mentioned, I believe they are firmly convinced that today's case is a political process. I keep some evidence of the course. And it is unnecessary to repeat that while there is no case and no evidence of any criminal offence, so no damage, I ask for my immunity to be lifted, despite the fact that there is no question, as I have told you. The reason is, I'm going to end up with this shitty case, with that story, and I'm entitled to. My personal path, my perception of man, society and homeland, my long scientific and professional course as a professor of medicine, and as a surgeon of orthopaedics and my impeccable ministerial service guarantee that I would never decide to frustrate against the public, which I served with passion, honesty and efficiency. How rather I can outlaw in SYRIZA a case written by the entire Ministry of Health, from Mr. Xanthos to the Secretary-General and the addresses, the Ministry's directorates, three - four agencies, before the examinations begin. In fact, I should like to organize the illegality so clearly, since I thought in the company that my relatives were shareholders and settled in my office. The judicial management of this case, as the chairman of the Committee of Inquiry, Mr Balomemenakis at PARAPOLITICA, stated, is more educational than criminal. It's no use to SYRIZA or to me. The proof is that the world is coming into my talk on the Panhellenic court. But it damages what Salmas symbolizes. It hurts the simple people who believed in what my course marks and symbolizes: The honest, self-regulatory man, a established doctor who had no need for politics except to offer. And you all know about my contribution to saving 1.5 billion euros a year during my term of office, about five years around 8 billion so far. But you certainly don't all know that, after my term of office, I couldn't find a clinic to operate because I put the closed budget in the clinics, 300 million less and in diagnostics. And I was going to Cyprus to operate, former Minister of Health, and after 2014 in a basement in Boston, to teach Harvard Hospital a new technique to implement it in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u25	Thank you. The third case concerns Mr Andreas Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u26	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u27	He can't take the floor. Not provided. Why would he want to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Polakis, it is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure. In any case, however, because we need to complete the flow of cases...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u29	Madam President, I want the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u30	Not provided.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u31	It is a personal matter, Madam President. Use descriptions that... (not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Polakis, we're not going to go to court here. Mr. Salmas may have said what he said to his allegations. We'll move on to the third case, and we'll see. It's about my colleague, Mr. Andreas Loverdos. Is there a colleague on the third request asking for the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u33	Madam President, I want the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u34	Wait! Don't talk, gentlemen, please! The application for Mr. Andreas Loverdos will speak for himself. You, Mr. Venizelo?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u35	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u36	You will speak as former president. Anyone else? We'll see. Mr Loverdos, you have also asked for tolerance from the Bureau, but you see that time begins to "people" too much time. Please help. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u37	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in order to make it clear from the outset, I am the first to vote for the lifting of my immunity, as I have said for many days now, as a first step towards ending this disgraceful process against me and against our party, PASOK, the Change Movement. It is not enough at all that all those responsible for this plaiting will sit on the stool. I certainly do not want to see the slightest reasonable doubt about what has happened in the field of health in the governments of my party, namely PASOK, Papademos, but also after our party took part in the Samara - Venizelos government. All citizens must listen to this opportunity again - and that is already fortunately the case in the public debate - for the period 2009-2015, when the pharmaceutical expenditure has been reduced by many billions, most of my days. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] The table is clear and has been debated very much for many years as far as possible. I put it before him and it is the only document that I will be tabling here today. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Then, when these battles were professed, half the New Democracy and SYRIZA were across the street, then only SYRIZA, with preconcussions of all forms and certainly here, in Parliament, with refusal to vote. Now, for a year and a half ago, the history of NOVARTIS, the government majority of SYRIZA and ANELs, violated the Constitution raw in the case of the ten politicians, set up ten polls, and today in mine. Today, you are violating the Constitution again. You have violated the Constitution on the one hand by the falsehood of the dispute between ministerial offences and, on the other, by the exercise of government duties on the other hand, by ministerial offences carried out in the exercise of tasks. It is a real pseudothemia against violation of the Constitution and the established case-law of the courts. And you refused - there is a purpose here - to be done by the Committee on Preliminary Examination of the House and then by the special court, since the ten had stated that we did not want to make such limitations. You refused, therefore, to come the hooded false witnesses to the House, to uncover the plaiting, the plaiting and the crimes committed, and you do not hesitate to violate even your own pseudothemism and do so today for your ministers. False persecution and slandering, as we will see later, the intercept of conferences and talks is in the performance of the duties of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. Congratulations! For them, you haven't been voting for any immunity in four years. That's who you are! Sports of double data, other measures for opponents, but for you. But I've said it all along. I don't need all of this. I do not need to call parliamentary privileges. I am not asking for any benefit from Article 62 of the Constitution on immunity, nor from Article 86 of the Constitution on ministerial offences. Face-to-face I will treat both the knit and the plaiters and before - in the face I will also reveal the inspirations and performers of this plaiting, hoodiers and not. One and a half years I have been afflicted - and I and the other nine have been discredited - by Greek citizens who happen to be opposition to the government's party, by political persons - by rope and prolonged procedures instead of rapid and stable procedures, as the Constitution requires. You have refused, as a majority of SYRIZA and ANEL, this constitutional procedure and obviously you have chosen the procedure for the loose ends. One-and-a-half year now there are loose ends which concern your political opponents. In other words, you have chosen the sparking and confiscation. And now comes a case in this House, in election time and with pre-nominations of part of the pro-government press, which has direct and direct information from specific judicial authorities, as it clearly seems. But I have the truth at my side and the truth has overwhelming dynamics. I'm gonna crush the platinum with it. Because the manufacturers who organized this plaiting are evildoers of the Common Criminal Law. However, I will not put any obstacle between me and our party and the Greek people invoking ministerial and parliamentary privileges. I have and we have as a party thousands of messages of support from all over Greece. People gather in cafeterias, homes, everywhere and send messages of support to me and our party. We're together, they tell me. Don't give them a hand! Don't pity the manufacturers! These are their most frequent phrases. I'll crush them, I'll answer them. And that's exactly what I'm gonna do. The first act of this course is my vote on the lifting of my immunity. Now let's go see what - within introductory words - 'new' has the file that recently came to Parliament. For four politicians, who were unfairly accused of the same hoodmen, the cases are at last filed after a long delay. Here the false witnesses who spoke of hundreds of thousands of euros supposedly given to four other politicians were found unreliable, and completely unreliable. For me, however, they were saying less that they 'they think', 'they', 'they think', 'they', 'they may', and, strangely and unjustly, they are trustworthy. What a blatant and brutal contradiction that is! And from their dozens of lousy lies for me, now they only end up in two - three. I have answered, ladies and gentlemen, all of this from last year with my complaints against hooded false witnesses, one to one, word for word. The basics I told you in the House last year. I will repeat today one - two of them and I will mention one - two of the new falsehoods of the hooded and other false witnesses, who remembered them at the end of 2018, when Maniadakis broke and a few days before the file came to Parliament, while the announcements from your own newspapers had been made a long time ago. It's like you're not ashamed of me! But, before I begin for them, I will start with a misery of a hooded man, which the Prime Minister repeated because he liked, Mr. Hatzinikolau, two days ago. The Prime Minister, who, as I said last year and I repeat it in any case, is the one who gave the mandate and the one who politically covered the construction, now adopted the most disgusting, most immoral and at the same time the most intriguing lie of a hoodier who remembered it at the end of 2018. For one year he didn't remember! Obviously, it was now dictated by the manufacturers, trying to keep the case open, as it were. "I informed..." - says the false witness and repeats to Hatzinikolaou the Prime Minister - "hidden "NOVARTIS" in December 2010 that a bond haircut with the PSI will be made in 2012." Well, isn't there a gum? Wasn't Mr. Tsipras here when these were happening in 2012? In 2010, there was not even a thought for a bond haircut. In 2012, the bond haircut was made. And the bond haircuts of health suppliers, judges, microbiologists were announced to us to the Ministerial Council by the Ministry of Finance, on the one hand, that the Ministerial Council made a decision on haircut in February 2012. But I, according to the hoodman, as a master Calchas, had guessed that since 2010, and had gone to catch up with it. Or, as someone says, who doesn't understand what's going on with him, does he mean that the hoodman I informed about the payment through bonds of health suppliers, made by a previous Minister from me, who is now with you? I didn't pay debts with bonds. I was in another department at the time. Minister of Health was another, now sitting next to you. Goebbels, ladies and gentlemen, was a terrible professional criminal. Those who do this are terrible criminals, but calamity! [[Applause from the Democratic Alliance]] Let's go down. The whole story focuses on Gilenya drug. And they say what you can imagine. I did see the minutes of the committee of inquiry when Mr Lindzer was tabled. There was one, two colleagues - who I see now - who were saying a number of crazy things in vague terms. This medicine, based on the rule that I with two other PASOK Ministers had imposed, was invoiced on the basis of the three lower prices in the European Union. This medicine was given a standard price, i.e. EUR 1,930. On the same day that the price was paid, I added it to expensive hospital medicines and his price went to EUR 1.680, below all prices in the European Union! And these euros were not given by the citizens. He gave it to the company's fund. They're terrible people who say that and today these bad guys listen to me. They say - I caught this from the exam - but so in the mosquitoes and the confused ones, that in Cyprus this medicine was cheaper. In Cyprus this medicine entered the market and was later invoiced, in March 2012, at a price of EUR 1,995. To us it was at least 300 euros below. They're liars, slanders and common thugs. And I go on, they say that this medicine was new, and the troika wouldn't let us put new medications, and I put it in. Lies! The troika has never set such a ban. I didn't put any new drugs on, because we didn't have money to pay for them, and they were very expensive. And I excluded this medicine, because it was a pill that replaced two days' hospital treatment. It was good, that is, salvage for patients, but also for health finances. And they don't blush out of shame. They've been saying this for two years. And they don't feel for what they do and what they say. And there's still another lie they're saying inside. It did not exist - it says - lawfulness in practice, because there were other medicines and we did not. No one was on the move at that time. The first other one requested and obtained a marketing authorisation took place in 2013. That's what happened, that's at least one year after me. And to make it clear, before I sign it, the eleven members of the price committee signed it. And it was - listen to me - by unanimity all its decisions, with companies participating in it, with representatives of pharmacists, the association of multinational companies, the association of Greek companies, the representatives of the National Agency of Pharmacos, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Social Security. The companies would have denounced it immediately. If this were unfavourable treatment, they would be mobilised - if they were big companies - their embassies. That's how it was. And the objections after the final treatment were minimal for about 12 thousand drugs. No embassy has been mobilized. No company protested. There was no post. Everyone was in that committee. Objections were being checked. Following the decisions, the Director-General of the relevant department, the Director-General, the Secretary-General and then I were signed. Eleven were members of the Committee on Invoicing under strong institutional names, of which only four were the members of the Minister. After their opinion, I repeat, they signed two top officials of the Ministry, the Secretary-General, and then I. I've never dealt with drugs. Of the twelve thousand articles, I was asking before I signed and signed four times, because I made four invoices that were all priced. So we saved the billions. So I was asking: 'Is there a reduction in expenditure, as we have decided?' The answer was: 'yes'. "Can we get them as much money as we can?". The answer was: 'Yes, we take them'. "Do the others agree? Yes, he agrees with the Treasury. The Troika agrees, as well as study organisations such as IOBE." I have always asked before I sign: 'Is the decisions of the committee unanimous?'. The answer was 'yes' in all cases and so I signed. No act against the public, I didn't. All my decisions were legal, in favour of the interests of the public and the money of the Greek people. And I want to say one last, because I want to speak politically by closing down. The Froze, who is a key person, a member of the NOVARTIS, who the false witnesses say was bribing the ten political faces, I didn't know him. I've told you that twice. If I saw him, I wouldn't recognize him either by his name or as a representative of his company. I met him as soon as he was elected president of the Pharmaceutical Industry Association a month before I left the Ministry. Our meeting lasted as long as a typical handshake lasted and I've said that a thousand times. Now the false witnesses say "No, no, they talked with phones and e-mails". Never! Undisputed witness, no traces. For two years they've been looking for us. They were looking for our bills, our partners, until the last of our family members. Nothing! Nothing for me, nothing for the other nine. And yet, disgusting and disgusting articles for two years last summer attributes and October, they left hints that are worse than when the file comes to Parliament. Because when the file comes to Parliament, it opens up and we see in it how waste this bag catches, but the peaks, the implied ones are worse. When the enemy comes out in the clearing, you see him and you run away. When he's hidden in the corner and leaves words, then he's more annoying. Nothing with the bills! But there are reports. Aren't you telling me, e-mails mine, detected since that medium was discovered, have they been found? They've been looking for so long. False witnesses say I traded e-mails. I never did. I neither had the man's e-mail nor had mine nor knew him, I repeat. No e-mails found. Is that what they call Oh, no. They let false witnesses repeat that we exchanged e-mails, continuing the same misery. So little communication with this man, because I didn’t know him. No meeting, no e-mails. And, to close it, traces of phones, nothing here. I never spoke to that man on the phone, ever! Not then, not even after I left the Ministry. However, these are well known because they have been checked. The prosecution authorities know them, but they have hidden them and let, I repeat, the false witnesses say and repeat the same misery. Now another, without a hood, asking for protection through the law, called by the false witnesses as my so-called counselor. It turns out by him that he was never. On the contrary, he was an adviser of SYRIZA Ministers and even two ministers specifically after 2015. And he sprinkles the stuff from the hooders. The running suitcases, they said about others, not me, became a sack of sacks, which the Guardian allegedly shared money, like the queens of the carnival flew chocolates. These ridiculousities are called for assimilation and it is the file that comes to Parliament today. All this, ladies and gentlemen, I have said it with my complaints many times since last year. Three sues against the hoodlers, which I will now update, because they have said and - not to describe as a human in my mouth - words and some of the words that I have mentioned. With my new sues, in hoodmen and not, I will crush a word - word as many new misery as the file that has come to Parliament. Now I have some suspicions. I'll testify to you. You keep them in mind, too. In December 2018, a former hoodier breaks, no longer withholds extortion and denounces. He says: “They were pushing me to hand over Samara, Georgiadis, Stournara.” 'No, they asked me if I knew anything', reasonable question, 'but give them a chance'. By breaking this witness - hoodier it is revealed that he has never been my advisor, as false witnesses brought him to be. Never in my days did this man deal with drugs. He never contacted me. If, ladies and gentlemen, she was asking me for the phone at some point - which she did not - I would find it excessive and cowardly. We did not have the opportunity to say that either. And yet, as these are now known, the false sins about my so-called advisor Maniadakis are still in the file that came to the House for me. And here's a spot. This man, Maniadakis, in a report he made the other day, adds something else that I didn't have in mind. He says he knows the two false witnesses, the others -- that's what he's said on television -- but that they're also witnesses who went to the United States and talked to the FBI. And he claims - and this is legal - that when you've come into a case from which you expect a company to be punished and get a percentage, you have a benefit and, so you can't be a witness in Greece. That's forbidden by our law. And yet they're still holding them there. I'm continuing with very worrying events. Circuit of former anti-corruption prosecutor - listen to me! - they claim that Rasputin was pushing me to give the politicians and let them find them later, that is what I am now in existence. Madam Prosecutor, is Rasputin a Minister? Who is it? This has to be said here. This has to be said now. The announcement must come out and say that Rasputin is the Minister. If it is not a Minister, it is a smaller matter. If it is a Minister, it is a huge issue and there are developments in this regard. Later - listen! - a Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Bay who oversees the prosecutors of corruption resigns, invoking personal reasons. It's weird, but it's unreasonable. You can't say he quit for personal reasons. But he's also resigning and he's alleged to have filed - the next - two reports, which one allegedly said he won't go to prison for the... and mentions the name of the prosecutor. I ask that these two reports be submitted to the House now, before the procedure is completed. Bring them now! We have asked Mr Papatheodorou for this on several occasions. Silence as an answer. Let the two reports of Mr. Ice Arrow's Deputy Attorney come to the House. Watch out, the second head of corruption prosecutors resigns, and all that we have read has been denied. They're hiding diligently. But for how long? Apparently, for some more time, because everything will take its way. I now reply to something that has been very much considered by me as legal: on the basis of these allegations, the concerns that result in allegations, I spoke about abuse of power, not because I felt it or because I liked the word. When senior prosecutors say this about their public colleagues and inform them indirectly, without ever being disproved, they can reasonably give rise to suspicions of abuse of power. Ladies and gentlemen, I have lived it in my skin for four years and a few months while you are ruling. I have been the most targeted politician since 1989, because your brutal behaviour has felt it, and as Minister many times, both as parliamentarians and on the road with beatings, beatings. I've been through this a thousand times. They called me and they called me a murderer. Recently, he reiterated this "AGE" because he allegedly said - I published photographs of seropositive, and is well known and told in the House, in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, by the President of the Privacy Authority, that this is the responsibility of only the prosecutor and anyone else. No Minister can do that. And yet - they said that in 2013 here in Parliament - six years later they dare and repeat them. They called me a spy and came to the plenary session, which voted not to be. What ridiculousness! They said that I supposedly privatised a public hospital, the 'ERRIKOS DON', which was never public, and I did not privatize it. They put my picture on this issue on too many headlines, negative headlines, along with others. And now 'NOVARTIS'. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wonder why. I know that very well. Firstly, because our party, PASOK, the Change Movement, is their main goal and, as the party itself said, “after the bridges don't come out, they return and resort to the mud against us”. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] Secondly - and this second one I have seen here for years - you do not like the fact that the PASOK has made the biggest changes in the area of waste reduction and corruption in the health sector. You don't like it. What have we heard? Even in the Committee on Revision of the Constitution, a Member of your Parliament dared to say that the drug reductions were because they were the troika. He dares to say that. He had no idea that before the Troika, we just received in 2009, the first Committees on Social Security, the Permanent Committees of the House dealt with them. And that's where we ended up long before the memorials became and the troika came. That is where we have to go with the three lowest prices in the countries of the European Union, which you changed and made it a month ago, when the prices of Greek drugs come out on the basis of the two lowest prices in the Eurozone. You raised our criteria. You say that there are closed budgets in our countries. And since there are closed budgets, that's how much the state pays, it's not paying. Yes, but the citizen pays, pays the rest. And the closed budgets, the first ones, I made them, like the rebate. In other words, this is what defined in an arbitrary way, I said, but we couldn't do otherwise, since the doctors prescribe in an arbitrary manner, which we arranged that the state pays so much and no more. That's what I did in this Chamber. And who did I have across the street? You. A few thens, but I had you across the street, yelling as much as you could and denounce me. Who brought it back - some people had abolished - the positive list of medicines, that is, that the insurance funds can accept that they pay drugs? I did this in 2011. The positive list of drugs came back from me. How many people I took as a toll to get their medications on the list? Of all, "NOVARTIS" is not excluded from everyone! Two hundred sixty-two million in a minute. I made the first electronic auctions for the supply of medicines to hospitals. Still, from what I learn, it's in the air. You didn't like them. Ultimately, I took most of the money from both the other companies and the "NOVARTIS", which its profits over your days have increased, as shown by relevant tables on several occasions. I, therefore, have to be politically murdered and the vague thing needs to be done, that this was done on their own. Thirdly, for the last four years I have been in front of the antipopulation front, and that is what I had to pay for. Fourthly, everyone says it - and we've already lived it these days - you're going to elections with Scandinavianism. But it's not coming out of you. Now that you're approaching the end, they're opening cards against you every day, every week. So that's how we're going to go to elections? I have the truth on my side, I'm not afraid. I'll face what I have to face and win. But you will also be punished for what you have done as a political act and for what you have done on these issues of so-called scandals and scandals, scandals in general. Fifth, ladies and gentlemen, since Mr Tsipras took it upon him to the Central Committee of SYRIZA in 2018 and said that he would change the political system and the NOVARTIS case, since he eventually collapsed - four, fortunately, archives and four or five, we read in your own forms, they come, says, in the next few days - since this thing from a larger scandal, as you said, in the history of the Greek state it became the largest plait and construction, with aspects of fiasco, it had to somehow answer. It had to be a bit of an answer to that story. Somebody had to do it and answer. And I used myself to prove that all the time they were right and that their humiliation is not complete, is not perfect. Six and last. Ladies and gentlemen, that's what criminals do. The real people don't do it. Poor people are these ruthless people, who don't beat up at all in front of their small-party interests. This story has been set up for votes. This means changing the political scene for votes. For these reasons, and for others, I am at the forefront of a group of political criminals. I repeat - and I end my speech - with the phrase that I use to respond to the thousands of citizens who rush to support me. The makers will crush them. I give a speech of honour today! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u38	Mrs. Gennamas, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u39	I shall speak at the end, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Venizelos has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, Andrew Loverdos has asked for political and above all moral reasons to waive his immunity. I shall vote, as Andrew Lovers requested, by accepting the moral and political basis of his attitude. I must, however, inform the Greek Parliament for many years about the legal framework within which the present case arises. I would begin with procedural arguments if, in the same procedure of waiving immunity, we had not repeatedly had the phenomenon of SYRIZA ministers who have requested the transfer of requests from the Prosecutor, in accordance with Article 62 of the Constitution, of waiving immunity within the scope of Article 86 of the Constitution and of the Law on the liability of Ministers, of the allegedly established law, which I have imported and now constantly requesting its application, in order to hide behind it in matters which have nothing to do with their own logic about what "act in the performance of tasks". I am presenting in the Minutes a recent journalistic survey of at least ten cases of such behaviour by Ministers of the SYRIZA Government. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Evangelos Venizelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned survey, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This behaviour harmonizes with the latest appearance of Mr. Tsipras in his news bulletin "ANDENNA" in an interview with Nikos Hadjinicolaos, where he appeared as displeased, an irritated prosecutor, because the so-called "NOVARTIS" scandal was turned into a reverse scandal, that is to say, an organized alteration of the fundamental institutions and principles of the society and, above all, the separation of powers and independence of justice, not to gain the characterisation of Mr. Tsipras's indicted surnames and emblematic political opponents, but to alter the correlation between the electoral and parliamentary forces, in fact, in order to undermine the functioning of the constitution. This is an insult to Article 134 of the Criminal Code. This issue is pending, which has been transferred by the Prosecutor to the House and they will be examined at the moment that we are following the criminalisation of political life, not because we are seeing backwards, but because everyone needs to be aware of what he has done, so that after defeat, when what has taken place, can pass through the process that will enable him to contribute to building the future of the country. So Mr. Tsipras comes along, on the occasion of the transmission of this request by the Prosecutor of the Public Prosecutor for Andreas Loverdos, and says: "You are not saying that this is a false charge, but you want to hide behind the limitation." Listen to your nerve! It says that, by addressing persons who have already been formally filed, this case has already been filed. It says this, for example, to former Prime Minister Panagiotis Pikrammenos and to me. I too am, of course, a permanent and privileged objective of Mr Tsipras and his group. And instead of apologize or even hypocritically pleading his satisfaction with the archiving, he comes with a philosopher to say that I must apologise to Mr. Pikrammenos, because the Constitution provides for the prompt transmission of the file to Parliament if the prosecutor or the administrative officer comes against the Minister's name. Listen to a lie and a lack of conscious responsibility! I have said many times that the provision of Article 86 of the Constitution has been put into a Greek Constitution for the first time in 1864 and the first law on the liability of Ministers has been passed in 1877. It is the time of Charilaos Trikoupis, Konstantinos Kanaris as Prime Minister. It's the time of Koumoundour, Deligeor. But listen to the even better. The prompt transmission of the file to Parliament is provided for in paragraph 2 of Article 86 of the Constitution. It shall submit a proposal for a revision of Article 86 by SYRIZA. That proposal shall include paragraph 3, but shall not affect paragraph 2. The provisions of the Constitution for without delay transmission adopt it, vote for it and follow by SYRIZA. Mr Tsipras comes with persuasive courage, he appears before the Greek people and says: "Let them look for the cause", as he has said the major one, that we who have traditionally been relieved, because we had nothing to do with this case, nor with jurisdiction nor with any connection, are asking for limitations. And what do we say? We say that there is a colossal problem of jurisdiction, that, like the SYRIZA ministers themselves, who have repeatedly called for the application of Article 86 for any act of their own, we say: that is what the case-law of the judiciary and the Athens Court of Appeal and the Special Court has said. In any case, it does not have the power to do so, except for money laundering, by the Prosecutor. Sooner or later, the question of jurisdiction will be put on its own. So there will be no final judicial confirmation of the end of this case. This could only be done if the Preliminary Review Committee of the Parliament did an actual investigation, called on the hoodmen and removed the hoods and, if it finds out anything, it referred the case to the judge and to the judiciary of the Special Court, so we could complete the procedure or the investigation, reveal the facts, which have been proven to be inexistent, and thus have an image. This is forbidden by SYRIZA, by violating the basic rules of the division of jurisdiction. I've said that on several occasions. I have said it in plenary, I have said it in the Committee on Preliminary Examination, science has written it down, established case law has said it. I repeat all the relevant points, so that there are also the Minutes of today's sitting. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Evangelos Venizelos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But there are two new data. Indeed, as Mr Loverdos said, a last-minute witness to the case is showing, in any case, self-critical lies, in my opinion, but take note of what procedural formula. He shows up and says: "I have committed crimes myself, but I want to denounce a minister, in order to be subject to favorable provisions, to be treated voluntarily. So I invoke..." says this witness, "...the article 263B of the Criminal Code." And he explains his motive. He wants to be treated favourably, so he finds a minister and refers to him. What does Article 263B of the Criminal Code say? I've said it here before. It says in paragraph 3 that if this happens and someone comes to denounce a Minister for the offences that are being discussed now - all offences, not just money laundering - the prosecutor is obliged to immediately forward the case-file to Parliament under Article 86 of the Constitution. The file shall contain a document, based on Article 263b, which in itself refers to Article 86 and not to Article 62 on parliamentary immunity. The second element: Because you knew, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, that you have violated the Constitution, you have become consciously misinterpreted, building the theory of alleged discrimination between it in the performance of its duties and in the exercise of its duties, which you do not respect with what you do, you wanted to legalise this retrospectively in the process of Revision of the Constitution. You therefore proposed adding an interpretative statement to Article 86, so that this become the rule of the Constitution, because the existing rules of the Constitution do not allow it. This proposal has actually been rejected. It will not be accepted by the next House, based on parties' positions. So the House in the review process confirms that you have violated the Constitution. But because there is organised knit, plaiting, because there is a violation of Article 134 of the Criminal Code and altering basic institutions of the civil society, such as independence of justice, you have made the first victim of this knit of justice and you have made hostages some of the minimum public prosecutors who have happened to be involved in this case. You have led them to the straightforward violation of the Constitution, the written off by you, through the proposal for a revision that you have made, which has been rejected here. Do all the judiciary actors concerned with this case know what Article 263B(3) of the Criminal Code says and what has happened in the Constitutional Review Procedure? They may not have a clear picture, but after that I do not think one can say that he did not listen, he did not know. Now he's listening and he knows. There is therefore a NOVARTIS scandal, an international medicine, involving a large number of doctors in many countries, and a university clinic, which has been received by large amounts for clinical investigations. All this needs to be investigated in depth. Are they being investigated? I haven't heard anything. Are trials being conducted? They are engaged in appeals other than the Court of Appeal in Athens. I saw the doctors of the Serres released for the supposed "NOVARTIS" scandal and along with them the famous Mr. Frozis. Is there a reverse scandal, a political scandal, the plutonium scandal, the construction scandal, the insult of Article 134 of the Criminal Code? Yes, the Deputy Minister of Justice conspired it, the same man who, when the file was sent to Parliament from the Ice Bay Prosecutor's Prosecutor's office with the Minister of Justice, caught a glimpse and declared outside the Maximos Mansion that it was the biggest scandal of all times and then, months later, he came before the House and said, yes, there is a great "NOVARTIS" scandal, but not for political persons. So here we must ask ourselves why Mr Tsipras insists, because while he sees the collapse of all this pragmatism, as Mr Pikrammenos said, he is taking over the property, responsibility, which is heavy. Because he certainly knows that he needs to protect himself on his way to the election. Because it's a lot of trouble. He says, "But is it possible to discuss the notorious Petsiti case, a common citizen, who happened to have a contact? And what does the government have to do with it?" I said TV too - and I repeat this in Parliament - that Mr Petsiti's name has a password or emblematic character. There's no Petsite case. There is the case of Mr Tsipras, his ministers, the government, which concerns damage to the public interest in relation to the PCP. There is a hub of developments that leads us from Venezuela to the occupied territories of Cyprus. There is an inflation of information to be assessed in relation to other issues, such as, for example, the Convention on the prolongation of the concession of Athens International Airport. I have lived more than anyone else in this Chamber than the current Members of Parliament in 1989. Mr Tsipras says to Mr Hatzinikolaou: "But then Andreas Papandreou's political opponent referred him to the Special Court." Oh, no. The left of the time collaborated. Because without the Jandetakis government this would not be possible. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] I defended Andreas Papandreou, defending the rule of law and the truth, defending the separation of powers. And I was next to Andreas Papandreou when on New Year's Eve, 1995, he took the initiative of suspending the process of Article 86 and the criminal liability of Ministers for the late Constantine Mitsotakis and many ministers of his government "not the evil immortality", to stop the vicious cycle, to move to another stage of the democratic life of the country and political culture. This is how the process of reviewing the constitution was initiated. That's how we got to 2001. So we voted for Rule 86 by a overwhelming majority and in the resolution on the responsibility of Ministers recommended by Mr Petsalnikos as Minister of Justice unanimously, with the vote of both the Communist Party and the then coalition, the predecessor of the SYRIZA today. My feelings are far from being vengeful and criminalized. I'm a consensus fan. We need national unity, but you do not get to national unity and consensus and the higher state of public life, if not everyone understands and does not think about what they are doing. And what has happened in the last four and a half years is a conscientious dismantling of society, the real economy and the country's institutional backbone. This has to stop. And it will stop through the election. It will stop through another political and parliamentary correlation. And the clearance will come. Be sure of that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u42	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and were toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", forty-four students and students and three teachers from the 1st Kissamos High Chania. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u43	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u44	Yes, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the attempt to smash the Democratic Order is not a new story. But history is now coming back and repeating itself as a prank. In the criminalization of political life, the first teachers are in the New Democracy, with which you took '89 broody'. At that time, some four hundred eighty-eight executives, mainly from PASOK, were brought to justice. Four hundred seventy one of them were acquitted. But the damage was done. The disapproval of politics began and the relationship between the citizen and the politicians was poisoned. None of this, however, seems to have been taught. It is Maxime's strategic choice to lead the country to elections in the mud, in an endless scandalology. So since the famous "direction" of the Prime Minister failed and the bridges with the Central Left and the Democratic Order collapsed - in the timely 'NOVARTIS' - on the occasion of the events. Well, it's impressive what's going on in this case. It has a strange quality, leaving and returning to the most convenient times for the government. The first mischief attempt to highlight the issue is to remind you that it has coincided with the peak of the popular reaction to the operations in Macedonian. And now the long-awaited second season coincides with the pre-election period. Such a coincidence again. It's either metaphysics or completely suspicious, or you have the bat's bone, or you have the Rasputin demon. Since last year the pattern has remained the same: unscrupulous accusations with no evidence, dreadful intoxications from Maximos and the right of the government. This work, after all, you know it well, and now as it is then. The case is being re-established, in a rare public prosecutor's and "yellow press" orchestration. On April 4th, a witness appears and repeats the same aerials that fit into a backpack, without adding anything at all. ‘From market cycles I have been transported’, ‘informed’, but so ‘accurate’ in particular. The next day, "DOCUMENTO" announces the presence of the witness and prescribes the transmission of a file to Parliament. On Monday, April 8, within just one day, all the necessary steps are taken to transmit the file to Parliament. The Deputy Prosecutors of Corruption, the Prosecutor of Corruption and the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay themselves have been able to make a preliminary study on the same day of the case and they have all decided on the same day that the case should be forwarded to Parliament. Everything was done with a speed of light and all this in a country where justice and the Prosecutors are moving at the rate of turtle, in a country where serious complaints about the present government stunt, in a country where the Deputy Minister of Justice irresponsibly and arrogantly speaks of the greatest scandal of the century with no evidence and no evidence. Just so with his D.A.'s office or maybe his pre-service in the U.S.S.A. It wasn't Pythia. It doesn't surprise us anymore. We are now well aware that your sole aim is to continue this debate to the elections, in terms of scandalous terms, with a clear aim to reinvent public opinion. But the Greek people know how to judge and know how to assess. He even realizes that everything is done to hit your main opponent, who is the Movement of Change, for you are now breathing and fearing. That's why you're avoiding elections. You think you will erase within the "slash" the important reforms of the 2009-2011 period, e-prescription, the Honors Watch, with operations that have served provenly and measurably in the public interest, which have ruined the party of the multinationals in the medicine and in public health, reduced the costs and exposed fraud in the field. They eventually benefited the Greek citizen, the patients and the national health system, with the incorporation of new therapies and scientific achievements. And all these very first years of the major crisis, when you forged indifferently and voted against all the major changes, while you were next to the New Democracy and the extreme right pretended to be the anti-immemorandum rebels in the squares of indignation. At that time, it was the time that PASOK kept the country standing, with courageous reforms, public policies and many sacrifices, sacrifices of bloody sacrifices caused by the destruction of public money by the Karamanlis government. And I wonder: really: After Georgios' irrevocable acquittal, will you finally have the courage to ask for an apology or to prevent your distress because your caramanlic component is exposed and the government's responsibility for the crisis and the memorials is revealed to the Greek people? [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] No one forgot that in 2016 "AUSY" wrote by slandering him: "Share the country and the Greeks with false evidence, collaborating with foreign interests". Now, of course, your account's down. The Pythia you asked seems to have fallen out! It is challenging, while the Democratic Order has borne all responsibility, all the pain to stand the country up in those difficult years, you now entangled in the chairs of power to share indictments and forgiveness. It is challenging to close your eyes to the whole and proud responsibilities of the Right for the economic collapse and bankruptcy of the country. It is hypocritical that the House, the political world for the launch of public pharmaceutical expenditure in the period 2004-2009, is silent. When will it finally be explained in this country why the New Democracy received the drug expenditure at EUR 2,2 billion in 2004 and reached EUR 5,6 billion in 2009? When will it finally be recognised that it was the PASOK that reorientated the expenditure to EUR 2.8 billion at a rational level? With who? With Andreas Loverdos and the reforms bearing his signature, the one you are talking about today. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] A Health Committee was also set up. What for? Just two cases. What did the Greek people learn? Why has the 'partis' never been seriously and methodically examined in the drug field? Why did not corrupt practices and their political implications emerge? We've only asked for it. Only our party dared to talk about the mismanagement of public money. SYRIZA, a worthy follower of the caramanelic period, continues to play the game of multinationals in the drug, with the provocative treatments of 2015, when he refused to re-evaluate the drugs by harming the public with about half a billion euros and giving the pharmaceuticals a gift. So you can continue to deny the truth. The world, however, 'has a tombstone' and expects these elections, which you are squeezing. You can continue the attacks and war. We will remain committed to highlighting the truth. We will insist until the end to demand that the real responsibilities for the actual drug scandal be revealed in Greece. We will fight to suppress the construction that some have machined and set up on a real case with international dimensions. We are convinced that the truth will shine and will prove by independent Greek justice that the law has been implemented. Andreas Loverdos has given apostostic answers. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] We also condemn the provocation against us. You went to charge us to the point of limitation. Well, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! There is no limitation, because there is not even a crime! That is why we, the Change Movement and our Parliamentary Representative Andreas Loverdos, are voting today for the lifting of his parliamentary immunity. We will deal essentially with the paper accusations. We will deliver data on history and their anonymous and surnamed witnesses and their irresponsible testimony. We are not using the institutional dilemmas of the Constitution. We will not put between us and the citizens of the institutions even when we are right. And we're right! [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] And this, unlike many important and popular executives, ministers and MPs of the SYRIZA, who one day roars for the abolition of the privileges of the political system and the other cry behind the apron of their immunity. "Keep on with me" that Zeke says. "You keep me, don't let me cover behind immunity. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] Let me tell you where we're different. We say it and we mean it: It's all in the light. Transparency for everyone and everywhere. Legality for everyone and everywhere. That is why we say 'yes' to the waiver of immunity, even though everyone understands the construction and the lack of any element. And with arguments of substance, we will destroy all your plans. On the contrary, you are hiding and attempting to hide the illegal acts of your ministers and, in fact, by invoking Article 86 of the Constitution, that is, what you allegedly denounce others. You guys are nice! You - he says - do not want to change Article 86. You're making use of limitations. Of course, we don't. And you come and you're hiding behind Article 86 of the Constitution to protect the ministers. So we ask: is Mr. Kammenos a slander or Mr. Kotzias actually involved in money for the Prespecies? Because one of the two applies. We ask: Did Mr. Paulakis illegally intercept with the Governor of the Bank of Greece? Answer directly and before the Greek people. Leave hypocrisy now. And I can't imagine you telling us that these actions result from and relate to their ministerial status. In any event, you know that, in the end, they will not avoid accountability, because legality is not negotiable. So it is disgraceful that SYRIZA and his party newspapers are trying to hurt our prolongation, which is the first to ask for the revision of Articles 86 and 62 of the Constitution on the criminal liability of ministers and parliamentary immunity. It's a disgrace! Unfortunately, all this propaganda and so much raw lies are a spot for the Left. We are made of other material, democratic, compact, impenetrable in the arrows. We're not perforated! We're transparent and clear. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] We have made transparency and accountability for all and all. And that's why we're not afraid, we're not intimidated, we're not blackmailing, and we're not silent. In a time of generalised lies, we dare to tell the truth, because this is a revolutionary act. And now, like then, the dirty '89', the truth will shine and we will be justified before all in the eyes of the Greek people with the results of the elections. We will be the surprise of these elections no matter what you do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Paradise has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u47	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u48	I have already given the floor to Mr Paradise, who will answer all this, Mr Polakis. No further intervention is planned for you. Unfortunately, it's not predictable.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u49	There is a personal issue, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u50	Here, Mr. Paraskevi, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u51	Madam President, thank you very much. I may need some tolerance of time, because I am the first voice that comes from the Members of the government who have heard too much and too heavy, which obviously have to be contradicted. I would like to reassure you, ladies and gentlemen, because I am not going to speak either in the same style or at the same level, on the basis of what some speakers have already heard. However, before I go through exactly what is necessary legal and constitutional, in order to be able to do our duty today, I have to say a few words politically. There was a lot of emphasis on a reason for polishing, knitting, conspiracy, talking about calamity criminals, criminals sitting on the stool, etc. I mean something. Firstly, the reason for building is at this very moment, as it is being said, that it is against justice, because we have reached this procedural stage of investigating responsibility on the basis of a document which refers to the three cases here in the House. And, of course, the whole case is being investigated to date at a decisive and judiciary's initiative and, in the first phase, before sending to the House the file, on the basis of Rule 86, but then, now, where it goes on by the Corruption Prosecutor. So the reason for building is against justice. And I must say this: because in the press-friendly press I often read this criticism of the person of a public prosecutor, I have to say that the reason for manufacture is not about a prosecutor, it is about justice as a whole. Because the Corruption Prosecutor is a whole structure, he has many executives and all of them are affected by the reason in question. And, of course, it was self-evident that justice today would support the other colleagues, the other judges, who have been trying to give justice to this attack on construction conditions, etc., which, in her atrocity, has been unprecedented in recent years. We had no other case of a general attack on justice as a whole. And I want to say one more thing about all this sort of construction. Look, we do not even act as the 'cleaning masters'. We are fulfilling a humble role. We are with some role here, the role that democracy has given us: its humble and transient pawns. That's the role we'll serve him to the end! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And we don't claim no laurels for that! It's our job and we'll try to do it. I am going to go to the law, which needs to be quoted here, because they have been completely distorted. It's two different issues. One question is whether there was a scandal and corruption phenomenon and the second question is whether some of these phenomena are involved. As far as the investigation of corruption is concerned, we are objectively dealing with two periods. One period was before the memorials and the other was followed by the memorial. No one disputes that there is a drug scandal. In the period until 2010, we had an unprecedented inflamation of public spending on medicines as it reached twice as high as in other countries. Then, after 2010, of course, the audit led us to spending control over all ministries and, of course, the Ministry of Health. This is another scandal. The scandal is that despite the fact that we were at a reduction from 2010-2011 onwards, some drugs and some companies have been excluded from the reductions with various tricks. That's the scandal. If anyone dares to say that a scandal has not been in the field of medicines, it must be compared to the Greek public opinion, which knows that it is paying five euros - and I call it symbolic - medicines that he had previously paid ten. And that every Greek knows. That is why the words 'the scandal does not exist' cannot withstand public criticism. What is the course of the case? The Constitution stipulates that if persons of politicians or ministers appear in a criminal case - she is referred to the House without delay to proceed with the procedure on the basis of Article 86 on the criminal liability of ministers. What should justice do when he saw names, ten names? Shouldn't he send the case to Article 86 without delay? Shouldn't the Constitution be applied? The case under Article 86 was therefore sent to be judged under the Constitution and the terms of that provision whether a preliminary investigation of the cases in question would be initiated or whether the cases in question were completely unfounded, and consequently there must be an irresponsibility and reference to justice or a close of the case. What did he say in 86, explicitly applying the legislation and the Constitution? He said that those cases which were undeniably made in the performance of the duties of political persons, such as infidelity, have also been dropped and cases which were not made during the execution, but, on the occasion, i.e. by exploiting, if you wish, the position of the Minister, as is, of course, bribery, are referred to justice because they do not fall within the definition 'in the performance of Article 86'. Is that correct interpretation, which was made under the Constitution? Of course. When we are dealing with a condition which is not very clear, such as what is 'at the time of execution', since the term is exceptional and leads to exceptionally privileged limitations, it must of course be interpreted closely, and other acts which have been completed on the occasion, on the basis of exploitation, etc., must not be subject to the preferential limitation arrangements. This is the right interpretation, that is the socially welcome interpretation, so that we do not get by abuses and excesses of concepts into an easy omission. After that, therefore, the House sent the case to justice for what was judged to be a matter of justice rather than of the House. Justice, in investigating the case, came to a preliminary investigation and sent the case back to the House in order to waive the immunity of the Members concerned and then proceed, if the waiver is done, to the prosecution procedure. Here we need to clarify some things. The procedure in which we are currently taking part is not a procedure which, in any way, presupposes a substantive investigation, i.e. whether the 'alpha' was the 'alpha' or anything else. Here all we have to judge on the basis of the constitutional provision of Article 62 or even 61 of the Constitution is whether the files, which have come to us, concern the exercise of parliamentary duties or whether the case has arrived here because of political feasibility. Whether someone is to blame or not to be investigated. We don't have an interrogation procedure so that we can look into it. I say this in relation to speeches that we have heard before, where, of course, the examiners were human and unavoidable to defend themselves and to try to show that they have no guilt, but, in any case, that was not the actual investigation, the main object of the process we have at the moment and that we are continuing with. On this point, because I am referring precisely to the efforts of those who are being examined here today, I would like to make a real distinction between Mr Salma's position, that is, the decency with which he has tried to defend himself, by referring to some essential elements and by trying to prove - in his view - that is his point - that is his point of view. Of course, this procedure has some loose ends at the moment. I have heard here that: 'For your people you accept immunity, for others you do not accept.' This is also true, because for the two cases of Ministers, which have now come to be examined by the Ethics Committee, what the Ethics Committee considered is not that their case is over, but that it is referred to the procedure laid down in Article 86 and remains open. If anyone is thinking of why, in the Article 86 procedure, Mr Loverdos has not been referred to and is being referred here by two other ministers, the reason is that Mr Loverdos' case has already dealt with Rule 86, while the other two Members have not been involved and it is reasonable at this time to refer their case to a judgement. I would also like to say something about their attitude, their case being considered without immunity. It's a decent place, and it honors them. Of course, we must bear in mind that this procedure concerns the public interest and does not depend on the attitude of the citizens. Of course, the attitude of those who are in this position is appreciated, but it is not the main criterion to see whether or not we will move forward. What is the criterion for the award of immunity or not? It is whether specific acts are linked to the exercise of the parliamentary work or whether there is a political feasibility. Is there a political expediency? Look, the quest for feasibility is a process of proving simply to be in vain. Incentives cannot be sought under proving conditions. What can be seen in view of this procedure here? It may be that if what happened, it happened because it imposed the Constitution, this is what the laws impose or if not, so it is perhaps justified to ask ourselves whether there is political feasibility since it was not all in accordance with the legislation. This whole course, which I have described to you, is a course of necessity on the basis of what the Constitution defines and on the basis of what the judicial procedure, the prosecutor is currently asking for in its documents. There has been a debate on the interpretative statement contained in the review. In fact, I heard Mr Venizelo saying that this was rejected. I must say that in the revision process the proposal to introduce an interpretative declaration received a hundred seventy-five and seventy-nine votes in the two votes, which means that it was accepted by such a vote, so that it is very close to the eighth and has many prospects of success. But it's not the typical thing. The issue is: Those who are afraid of this interpretative statement, those who seem not to want it and wish for its failure, ultimately what do they want? Do they want what the interpretative statement says to apply or not? Why is the statement saying? It's just that bribery is not recorded. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Briefness is something other than the Minister's close duties. Let me not say 'I hate' too. In any case, however, it is something that should not lead to preferential treatment. They want it or they don't want it? They want the interpretative statement saying that bribery will be judged like that of every citizen or do they not want the interpretative statement and they want to avoid it? And if they want to avoid her, they'll explain how to avoid her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u52	Mr Georgioda, please be brief, because many colleagues are begging us to complete, because others have to travel and others have various obligations. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u53	Madam President, I will speak from my position for five minutes and thank you very much. Today, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, what is important and is left to me and I think it also lives to the citizens, is the unscrupulous hypocrisy of the majority, which uses the relevant laws and the Constitution as appropriate, depending on the person involved and decides accordingly. According to the majority a minister should not be bribed, he is not in his ministerial duties - we all understand that, of course - and he must be judged by regular justice. That's what the majority says, that this crime must go to regular justice. At the same time, this very majority is saying that, if it is the Minister of SYRIZA, it can be the offence of infidelity, because it is regarded as a ministerial offence and it is illegal - so the majority has decided - it can be the offence of slandering, it can be the offence of false repression, it can be the offence of illegal recording, because that is within the ministerial duties of SYRIZA and must go with the provisions of Article 86 of the Constitution. I think that such hypocrisy by a political force on this very serious issue that the whole world is watching us for, we have never seen. The majority has made use of this famous law on the liability of Ministers at least fifteen times to protect Ministers of Government from committing offences, regardless of their ministerial duties. The majority, once it says that it must go with the law on the responsibility of Ministers, the slandering or false persecution, or the infidelity, is to accept that the execution of these offences is linked to the duties of a minister. Is it possible to accept that? Let the Committee on Parliamentary Ethics decide, in which the majority of SYRIZA has to come as MPs, to these ministers for these crimes which are irrelevant to the performance of their duties and then to decide on the majority, after the committee has delivered its opinion, whether there is a political persecution or a reason to protect the Member - and not the Minister - for these offences which, unfortunately, were the subject of ministers yesterday. But yesterday we saw something else that we had never seen before. An unsuccessful minister who did not claim the connection of the alleged offence to the exercise of his ministerial duties, who did not involve the execution of this offence, as allegedly did, in relation to political persecution or political reasons, to have the protection of the majority again. The Minister who has not linked the offence to the exercise of his ministerial duties, simply because he was Minister of the SYRIZA Government yesterday, was once again protected. This hypocrisy, Madam President, must end. We cannot work on these serious provisions and, where appropriate, on the basis of a majority decision. The New Democracy has always been in favour of transparency, in any case. We have always voted in favour of all the proposals made for the establishment of committees of inquiry and a pre-inquiry when necessary, which the majority of SYRIZA never did. I think that today the scandal that remains in the consciousness of the Greek people is this two-faced presence of the majority, a presence which you can be sure the Greek people are aware of and when they need to get their answer. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u54	Mr Georgiodda, I think that some arguments have been exchanged in the Ethics Committee. We can't replicate it here. In any case, you did.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u55	I wanted to show hypocrisy, Madam President. Will you comment on my location?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Pafilis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u57	Because we have started the debate on the law on the liability of Ministers and because everyone is being cut for this disgraceful law, during the process of constitutional review, the Communist Party of Greece, among other proposals, has tabled a proposal for the total abolition of this shameful law and not for some, as has been said before, so that the ministers can be dealt with for all offences such as the ordinary citizen. But no one agreed. Why just bribery? Why didn't either of you agree? Neither the New Democracy, nor the SYRIZA, nor the KINAL - PASOK agreed or supported by a statement - since they could not be adopted on the basis of the Constitution - this proposal. Only specific parties have the right to make proposals. So why did you not support this proposal by the Communist Party to end this? It is hypocritical, then, that is what is happening today. The second thing I want to say is that the Communist Party of Greece does not underestimate the so-called'scandas'. And this is not about today's debate, but about the whole thing. It is always of the opinion that an effort should be made to find solutions and if there are guilty of going to justice. Of course, experience has shown a lot of things that where and where a Iphigenia is sacrificed, because they are interlinked with their own system and function. This is where we all live, and we know what the capitalist machine works for. The biggest scandal, for example, in the health sector is trade, the astronomical amounts collected by pharmaceuticals and other companies, literally astronomical. And the world reaches the point where anyone who has money to live and whoever doesn't have to die. Because the one who has will exhaust everything, whatever it exists and there is not. This is the biggest scandal. However, we do not underestimate the rest. However, we want to note that the work we have seen many times and especially pre-electionally on both sides. Now one partner has just changed in the oldest position. We have aces from the sleeve that makes, either the government or the opposition, to cover up and go to elections with these classes and the misery that reaches the heights of what is said and heard, on either side again, in order to hide the political substance. The common strategy, the agreement on the strategy, which is called'serving capitalism', whether SYRIZA or New Democracy 'I am fighting for who is best served by it, I am with the European Union up to the bounces'. The Greek people are aware and I imagine they will express to some extent what a pillow you have made for so many years, you who are with the European Union. And he perceived it in the crisis. Except it wasn't a pillow. The European Union was an electric chair for people's interests. So what we want to say to those who can see is not to fall into the trap of Scandalology, but to judge on the basis of their experience and on the basis of the policy that has been pursued over all these years and will lead to who is right. And this is the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u58	Madam President, may I request the floor for clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Paradisepoulou, we have exceeded every limit. Unfortunately, the next ones are also protesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u60	Tajsta, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u61	What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u62	I just want to make one clarification. I will not delay you at all, ladies and gentlemen. Because I have heard Mr Pafilis, who said about the reform of Article 86, which will lead every citizen to be in the same category as everyone, I would like to say that that is exactly what the proposal provides for, which took two hundred and fifty-five votes, Mr Pafile, does not apply to specific limitations. He took two hundred and fifty five votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u63	All right, Mr. Paraskevi. It's the moments of the auction here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u64	Only for bribery is intent. It's not about everything. Why do you not agree to abolish the law on the responsibility of ministers?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u65	Gentlemen, please! Ladies and gentlemen, we would like to point out that the vote includes three cases of the lifting of immunity from Members. Every time on the screen a case appears to be voted on. To show the next or the previous one, press the arrow on the right or left side of the screen respectively. Make sure you've voted for all cases of waiver of immunity. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I have the honour of announcing the following: The Standing Committee on Educational Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Science and TEI Synergies, Access to Higher Education, experimental schools, General Archives of the State and other provisions". Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, in which they give their vote. These votes will be taken into account in the count, which will be followed and recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u67	In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters from my fellow Members have been sent to the Bureau. Christos Spirtzi, Charulas (Haras) Kefalidou, Athanasias Anagnostopoulou and Olympia Tyloridos, who know that they are absent from today's roll-call vote and make us aware of their intention to vote. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the electronic counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u68	Once the vote has been completed, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, until the electronic count is completed, we will proceed to the debate on the question scheduled for today. In fact, due to the end of the year, I will not be referring by the Bureau to today's Day of Philhellenic and International Solidarity.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Question No 10/29-32019 by the Independent Members Panagiotis (Panou) Kammenos, Konstantinos Katsiki, Maria Kollia - Tsarouha and Aristides Fokas, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Contesting procedure for the promotion of consular office support services for diplomatary authorities". The speech is given by the first honourable Member of Athens, Mr. Panos Kammenos for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have turned to a topical question the question and application of documents we have submitted to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in relation to the tender procedure and the procedures for granting the visa issue. In today's debate, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it will perhaps be a first time, after many years in this House, how, under the guidance of the former Foreign Minister, Mr Kotzias, a tender was organised before the first stage, namely the drawing up of the tender notice, the procedures for examining objections, the call for tenders and the ratification of the contract. I believe, Minister, that you will have the opportunity when you return to your Ministry to exempt from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs officials who did not act as Greek diplomats, but acted on behalf of certain interests, as I will prove with evidence that will be submitted to the House, shared in the parties and then transferred to Greek justice. I asked you about the request for documents, because I was very aware that the documents I requested did not exist in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At the request of the former Minister, Mr Kotzias, many of these documents have disappeared and have been destroyed by computers, with the exception of the signed contracts which the legal service does not even have, but are in your office and which you have not deposited. I hope you have them, and I hope you will be presenting them today. Unfortunately, however, for those who tried to erase all the traces from computers, the files remain in the computers. The files have been recovered and today will be filed in the Greek Parliament to get them too. I start very soon to say that in 2009 the European Union, the European Parliament and the Council adopted Regulation 810/2009 of 13 July establishing the Community Code on Visas. This regulation provided that Member States should be responsible for organising visa applications, equip their consulates and their authorities, such as the authorities responsible for issuing visas at the border and the necessary equipment to collect biometric data. It also established that it should cooperate with one or more Member States in the context of on-the-spot Schengen cooperation or through other appropriate contacts or in the form of a limited representation of the accommodation of the Joint Application Centre in accordance with Article 41, and in exceptional circumstances or on grounds relating to the local situation as they were, the high number of applicants would not allow a specific application or concentration to be organised. As long as all other possibilities are exhausted, i.e. cooperation with a State or the creation of offices at each consulate for exceptional cases, and once they prove to be incomplete for the State concerned as a last resort, they should cooperate with an external provider. In Article 43, in particular, it states: ‘Member States shall endeavour to cooperate with an external service provider together with one or more States without prejudice to public procurement rules’. This Regulation was converted into a law in December 2014. The article of this Act is included in Law No.4315 ‘Acquisitions to land and money, mineral expropriations’. In Article 20 it was received from the directive which existed, that the State itself should try to do the procedure and then, in exceptional cases, that it might be possible to have a provider. In Article 20(3), however, it states 'that the individual assessment criteria and technical tenders and any other matters'. In other words, the Act stipulates that there should be an assessment of economic offers and an assessment of companies' techniques. It said in Article 4 that contracts concluded by consular authorities or consular offices of diplomatic authorities are still in force and the relevant services are provided until the beginning of the provision of services. Until then, several contracts had been signed with VFS. It is a special international company based in Saint Mauritius, which then transferred its seat to the United Arab Emirates. This company was therefore one of the companies, which subsequently participated in the tender, drawn up on the basis of the report made by the Committee for the Assessment of the Effective Arrangements of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which clearly described that the award criterion should be the most economically advantageous tender. And from there on, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the great scandal begins. It is the scandal that has evolved in accordance with the procedure initiated for the drafting of the notice. In the drafting of the notice, there is no means that the law and the directive of the European Union defines the most economical solution. In fact, in the committee's recommendation - which was made for this tender procedure with objections from interested parties - although an economic offer is sought, it is never inside. Indeed, the amount of the notice is at EUR 15 million, whereas the project only for Russia is EUR 185 million a year. Under contract law, the contract should be at least four times from the last years or for the years in force. The contract under the contract would have been valid for eight years. This means that the contract should be over 1,000,500,000 with the 2010, 2012, 2013, 2014 statistics. Instead, the contract was set at 15,000. It is important that there were two publications in the notice. One is published in the European Union and the other is in Greece. It is clear in the European notice that the term means that there is no subcontractor. The Greek notice provides that there may be a subcontractor but only for the information technology work. All of this is in an envelope of about a thousand pages, which includes the minutes that have been lost by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the committees evaluating this notice and then the committee of objections with compositions decided by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and which I also submit to the House with specific names of diplomats. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panos Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It's no coincidence that one of the interested parties was VFS. The VFS company, which had the job and continues to have the job to date, which was excluded from the tender due to the fact that the Minister on Foreign Affairs did not accept the proposal of the Committee on Objections and considered that because it is based in Saint Mauritius it is a non-resident company, it does not reach the final shareholder and should be excluded. VFS is therefore excluded from the tender and VFS then appears as a subcontractor at the end of all proceedings. What do we have here? Here we have the organized criminal energy of creating a participating company that took the project, won the competition and finally entrusted it to the previous contractor, who had been excluded from the competition. This participating company has three main shareholders, the former Ambassador Dimitrios Platis, the former ambassador Mr. Ioannis - Alexio Zepo and the former Chief of Police Mr. Economou. Mr Platis, in fact, has visited both Mr Samaras and Mr Venizelos before December 2014, who refused to do - to their honour, I must say - a debate on the creation of a company, which would then take place. The details will be taken from justice to study them. So let's go on what happened. An invitation to tender took place on 3-7-2015. The Court of Auditors, with the objections made, rejected the GVCW because it had no experience, was a company set up on 2-7-2015, i.e. eighteen days after the invitation to tender and excluded it - because it had no visible shares because three thousand shares had not yet been issued - because it did not have an economic object. And that is where the Minister of Foreign Affairs starts trying through the service actors with interventions from the Court of Auditors, to move from the step to a message to change the decision. These interventions, of course, are not random, as I will prove below. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So during this period we have on 22-7-2015 the establishment of an evaluation committee under Ms Danai Koumanakou, Ambassador of Greece in Moscow, Mr Tzira Karamitsos and Mr Nikitas Nikitakos Professor, who are also the protagonists of the case. On 22-7-2015, we have a committee and an examination of possible appeals under Mr Blaviano. On 17 September we have a practical closure of the evaluation committee's work at the stage and VFS is unanimously excluded as a company which has no final shareholder. President: Ms Kumanaku, Member of the Commission. Mr Giras again, and Mr Nikitakos. On 17-9-015 we have a decision by Michael Spinelli, Deputy Secretary-General, approving the rejection of VFS and other companies’ bids. On 23-9-2015, we have a preliminary appeal from the Greek Visa Network for the cancellation of the committee's practice. On 25-9-2015, we have a memorandum of this company, GVCW, which states as a subcontractor the company ‘I KNOW HOW’. I would remind you that a subcontractor is only allowed to be in the work of advising software. On 30-9 2015, Mr Kotzias set up a appeal committee with President Panagiotis Economou. The Committee unanimously recommends the exclusion of the GVCW company from the further competitive process due to the non-nominalisation of the shares and the general and indefinite wording of the company’s objectives. On 8-10-15 Mr Kotzias with his personal decision returns the report back to committee. In reply to Mr Economou as chairman of the committee, this committee is the committee responsible for decision-making. On October 13, the next day, we have a letter from GVCW, where unique shareholders seem to be Mr. Platis and a Hero Miltiads. On 19 October Mr Kotzias did not accept the Commission's recommendation of objections and then accepts GVCW's participation. On 22-7-2016, a practical re-scheduling of GVCW bids with the President, Mr Spinelli and Mr Jira. Because it considered that the company's experience was not necessary because the shareholders' experience was satisfactory. This has never been done in global times. The subcontractor is judged to be sufficient in knowledge, because he had concluded an agreement with the public. On 12-1-2016 we have a ratification decision of Kotzia on the basis of this on 3 August: “F’s F finds the supremacy of GVCW’s offer, a higher ranking...”. On August 16, we have an appeal from the opponent, SPACE, to the effect that on November 30, on the basis of the practical conclusion of the evaluation committee, the regular member of the Committee of Constantine Bartzis expressed reservations. Mr Bartzis takes twice a sick leave from the CSD, and then he moves the technical officer of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to Tokyo because he reacted and did not accept the Minister's objections not to be in the final phase, where he was not. In fact, it was not replaced and the committee did not decide in breach of any legality. Not legal, then, composition of the collective body. A Tender Assessment Committee shall be established on 24-10-2016. Compliance with the decision of the S.H.E.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.P.C. where it said that GVCW does not have experience in a direct but only through a subcontractor, which is considered ‘I KNOW HOW’. GLOBAL is declared as a contractor and pursuant to Directive 2014/23 the subcontractor will remain the same throughout the concession. The contractor, ladies and gentlemen, disappears and, in the subcontractor's position, again appears the previous contractor and VFS was excluded. Why did all this happen? Ladies and gentlemen, I regret to do so, but I am obliged to do so, because unfortunately this information has been destroyed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I submit to the Greek Parliament the e-mail that was recovered from the Foreign Ministry's computers, which clearly demonstrate that before the competition was opened, before even the competition was opened on 3-7-2015, there is correspondence between the one to be appointed President of the committee, Mr Karamitsos - Giras, who is today Ambassador to London and has been rewarded for this post, with Mr. Platis President of the company to participate in the competition. On April 1, 2015, we have Gira to Platis: "In follow-up to our conversation I send Template a German notice for provider and current distribution of German contracts per country. Thank you for a pleasant and enjoyable dinner. Thank you for supporting the well-known issue. I'll see you by living on a subject. The surprise board was postponed tomorrow'. Mr. Platis returns on 23 May 2015 to the chairman of the committee to be appointed, and only Mr. Kotzias knew this: "Dimitris, following our morning's debate, would say that the provision for the invitation by the Committee of Experts to express their views in writing in the area of their specificity, for example in terms of data security, in terms of the country's tourism promotion, to enter into the draft the Ministerial Decision setting up that committee." It suggests the candidate for the contest that has not been given to the next president what he's going to do. On 3-6-2015 we have Platis to Jira: "Soft freedom. Especially in terms of teams. And I'm also entitled to have a man in consulates if there's no economic reason. So in the United States and in Europe we must open up to every state - and wait for who? He's an asshole?’ [[Laughers in the Chamber]] Gira's answer to Platis: "Take a look at C4's comment." Continue with the 2-6-2015. I repeat all this is correspondence with the candidate company, with the one who will nominate the president and Mr Kotzias finally appoints. On 4-6-2015, we enter the thick. He says: “Take the attachment with emphasis. A. Technical specifications. Labelling our IT service is that references to system architecture are irrelevant, provided that the rules on safety and compatibility with our own systems are met. In the next few months, the VIS on line will be activated, so the software will pass through the contracting party. B. Guaranteed a height for all independent pre-experiences or they say it's unfair competition. C. In a description of the mandatory criteria laid down by the visa regulation and handling of the tourist projection.’ This is of great importance, because, from now on, we have funds that go to tourists and are beyond the EUR 60 that will go for each visa. Also, ‘D. The list of zones is still open.' "Tomorrow I will not have time, because Nikos charged me with attending some conversations with Chinese." In the knowledge of the Minister, the gentleman, everything. And now we go to the notification by Mr Platis to Mr Jira, of the draft notice corrected. Attach to e-mail. "Demetrius, see some remarks that you sent to me in the last of yours. Pay attention to the notes I write to you in the margin, it makes sense." I mean, the candidate, who's gonna be the one to get the contest, is preparing the proclamation he wants. I'll submit it to the House. On 19-6-2015 a new draft notice is sent by Platis to Jira. 'Take one or two remarks to the margin and I think it should be left as a final one. Go ahead and do me good." I will see Tony Monday morning." Tony is obviously some "Petcite" of the system. Platform to Jira attached. ‘Public service tender’. "Demetrius, after our conversation, I made the changes that we talked about and resent you the text. I put a two-page summary at first and then some annexes come in. Make any remarks on this text before you send it to Tony. Thank you, Dimitris."
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u72	Does it bother you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u73	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u74	Listen, Mr. Xydakis lost his place for this job, you stayed. So listen. And I'm going on, Giras to Plati on 26-6-2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u75	Manage time too, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u76	Please, Mr. President. He says: "I took the four texts. T.B. have agreed a deadline for agreement by members of the committee by Monday. I'm sending you the texts with some first corrections of my own that I made between. Tell me the comment if you can, or by night I'll be in Athens. What he wants is the draft contract based on the first VFS, but it's not so critical." So Mr Platis responds to Mr. Gira: "Re Dimitris, Nikos Kotzias is waiting. First thing Monday morning. So he sent me sms and told me what to do now with the public service?" So Kotzias coordinates all actions between the candidate for president of the committee and the candidate company. The e-mail continues on 26-6-2015 again, Mr. Ghiras: "Someone is interested in C1, I asked them. Toni is early. I am going to motivate him, of course, but - be careful here - although it is on the right public record Monday afternoon that he will be ready, that is to say, at the end of the deadline and not today. For Monday morning. I'll tell you." I mean, to finish the job first, and then Tony's gonna go do the other job. On 21-8-2015 after the invitation to tender, Giras to Platis. ‘Watch the last paragraph’. Kumanaku to Jira, the other president who was then awarded and who you know where he works today? GVCW. She works at the company she gave her job. ‘Subject. Estimates for evaluation of documentation dossiers for subsequent steps’. “My Demetrius, good morning. I agree with the table of comments and the reply given as F5, that the competing companies should be aware of the comments sent to the evaluation committee. If this is to be held under the chairmanship of my deputy, in my opinion, we must, in order to close the whole process of the first phase, proceed." On 12-10-2015: "I hope you do not want my freedom that I made some additions". He puts the note on the minutes of the Committee on Objections - second and third - in other words, how they will eat the Ambassador, Economou, who, in this case, has been punished by never going abroad because he reacted to what you have done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u77	Mr President, please conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u78	"I'll tell you where to send it, maybe Nikos doesn't even want to take it, only until the notification. He put Peter in the position of M, and maybe you should have sent it there first. But let me tell you in about two hours." Let's go to 23-11-15, where once the job ends, the Platis writes proudly to the two Presidents, Koumanakou and Tzira, "alea jacta est, i.e. the cube was thrown down", as Julius Caesar said in Ruvikon. So we're all right, guys, the job's done. And the president of the company that takes the job to the two chairmen of the committees. Other e-mails, which I will not read now, by Mr Nikitaku, who is the Counsellor...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u79	Don't read it all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u80	Don't be afraid, I'll give it to the press.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u81	No, Mr President, I want to say this and you can't hear me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u82	...Mr. Nikitakos, who is Mr. Kotzias' advisor, appointed in committee, and he talks with both Kumanaku and the others. These, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, please listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u84	Don't be afraid!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u85	I'm not afraid of anything! I barely did!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u86	You let Venizelo speak so much time and Mrs. Gennamas. Does it scare you to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u87	Please, let me talk. Don't I be here and say hi? Listen to me for a second!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u88	Listen, I'm taking all my time, and I'm going to get you to me whenever you want. I'm telling you I'm not getting out of here. Bring the Guardian down to me. I will speak today and say what has happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u89	But I don't take time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u90	Whatever you do, you know I'll be heard. Whatever you do, you know I'll hear! You're not gonna sneeze me! You took away my parliamentary group! You tried to humiliate me, you'll hear it! Today, if you support Kotzia, the government will fall. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time GVCW...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u91	Is that your target?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u92	Oh, no. Of course it isn't, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u93	You've already confessed to your goal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u94	My aim is - and I believe the Minister will be - that when he comes back to the Ministry, he will share responsibility for the factors and, as I believe you as a parliamentary group, he will lead him where he should.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u95	You have confessed to your goal, that the government should fall.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u96	What did I confess, Mr. Dritsa? If I wanted to drop the government, then you should know that I would not inform the Ministerial Council of this matter when you were a member. I wouldn't let the Prime Minister know. I'd go out as a hero and go to the D.A. and leave. I informed the Ministerial Council, I informed the Prime Minister, I sent Kotzia away, but now we have evidence of trains, different from the one we had in the Ministerial Council. Ladies and gentlemen, 'Global Visa Center', namely the company that Mr Zepos, Mr. Economou and Mr. Platis made, has seven subsidiaries all offshore, the Global Visa Center World Hellas in Cyprus, with a member of his board of directors, Mr. Tenekoudis, from the General Secretariat of Equipment and Mr. Katsakouris from the General Secretariat of Equipment, relative of the other Katsakouri who has "I Know How", the "Gvs World Ltd", the second company that was set up at an earlier date, in order to have a previous service, the "Gvsoldings Ltd" which has a loan of EUR 1.150,000 from the famous Mr. Pipili Ioannis, John Pipilis, who is a partner of his partner Mr. ‘Gvsw Operation Ltd’, ‘Gvsw World Russia’. I will deposit all offshore companies, as well as I will testify from GEM, the Information System Development Register, the EUR 1,155,000 loan from Mr. Pipilis, the company, in an unprecedented way to guarantee the subsidiary for the parent, by a person who is even controlled by Deutsche Bank authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, my colleagues will continue. I would, however, like, in order to avoid any doubt, to say two things: the first, which Mr Kotzias refers to, the final decision of the Court of Auditors, is the result of the interventions made by the Minister's own decision. Never, never, nor the Council of State nor the Court of Auditors at any time - because I made the decisions because you did not submit them to me - does not say that it examined the legality of the contract and the legality of the procedure. He examined some oppositions from the company 'GVCW'. Mr Minister, I will only give the following document to you so that you do not doubt that the VFS is behind the project. This is a classified document, which came to your office yesterday under protocol number 440. I don't submit it to the House because it's classified.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u97	Do you have any classifieds?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u98	Yeah, I got it all. And for you, Mr. Amanatidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u99	What do you have for me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u100	I've got all the visa information in Russia, etc. I'll give it all. ‘VFS GLOBAL’ succeeded the ‘Global Visa Center’. The selection of the new provider to cooperate with the previous provider as a subcontractor that has led to a smooth transition from one another. Here, it seems clear from the confidentiality, which I will only give to the Minister, that GVCW is the company that continues to carry out the project and which is not there anywhere during the tender notice and the award. Where there is only one is in the contract documents possibly, which the Minister does not present in the House. There will probably be additional information documents from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which the Minister refuses to have as documents and which is why he does not submit. I would like to submit two more documents: The 2014-2018 statistics on which entrances and visas from Russia and Ukraine clearly appear to show the size of the contract. I would also like to say that, for advertising, it is planned that, in addition to everything else, these companies should return a percentage to the Greek State. If someone enters VFS today or GVCW in Russia will see a banner under the Ministry of Tourism. And I'm asking you this. How much money was given for the projection of Greece and how about the year of Greece - Russia by the Ministry of Tourism, by the Ministry of Finance and by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Is there any evidence? Why didn't Mrs. Kundura submit them to the House? So I close what these diplomats became. One, Mr. Economou, who objected, was punished in the refrigerator. Mr Spinellis, Chairman of the Committee on Competition, while he should retire in 2014, remained and was transferred as Ambassador of Greece to UNESCO with enormous remuneration. The other Ambassador, who was succeeded by Mr. Karamitsos - Giras, has been transferred to London since 2016. The other, the technical employee, who got sick all the time in the CSD, is now in the Tokyo Embassy. Ladies and gentlemen, these orgys, which have been made at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and which are proven by reports even from the Legal Council of State, which the Minister asks and does not accept their answer, are the biggest scandal that we have seen in this House lately. One entire weekend of Petsiti and Fusi - I don't remember it well - of NOVARTIS is a Great Friday for Kotzia.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u101	For some of the papers that the President has given - I do not know if they can be given documentary status - it must be considered whether they fall under the personal data provisions. This note is made by the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, the documents must be shared in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u103	Please, sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, I am presenting them to the House as a Member. I give up all immunity. I declare, if necessary, that I resign as well. I also take it that any responsibility lies with the deposit of the documents.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u105	You didn't hear me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u106	I give up all immunity! You must now share it with the Members, or I shall make it myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u107	Whatever you want, do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u108	If you don't testify to the House...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u109	Wait a minute. Mr. President, can you hear me? Can you hear me? But you can't hear me!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u110	Check what? Consider whether it's classified or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u111	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u112	I don't understand that. I'm putting that down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u113	Of course, you're the one who testifies.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u114	I'm taking responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u115	Yeah. Well, listen to me. You're an old parliamentarian...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u116	It's never been done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u117	Before you others have come and tried to make some secrets. Before you and it's not far from you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u118	What's the classified? It's not classified! Is that classified?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u119	Okay? I'm telling you, you'll listen to me. Sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u120	What's classified? Is e-mail classified?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u121	Sit down. I said it...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u122	Leave this, Mr. Barbara. Let it go! Don't cover Mr. Kotzia. You're going to go superbs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u123	Mr. Cammane, all right, you've done it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u124	Stop covering.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u125	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u126	Stop!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u127	But you're not respecting the Bureau right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u128	What don't I respect?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u129	You are not respecting the Bureau at this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u130	What should I respect? Respect the mail?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u131	You do not respect the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u132	I don't submit a public document. My mail.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u133	You don't respect it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u134	I don't submit a public document.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u135	Good, I made a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u136	Product of theft...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u137	No theft. I've been given them to top officials from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who have seen the crime you commit.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u138	Good. Sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u139	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u141	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u142	I would like to ask you, because I know that Mr Kammenos wants to leave, to put myself on the table now, and I would obviously also like to look at what will be heard by my fellow Members who will put their views on this question. I have to tell you something that I think is self-evident about the House, that our Government's attitude to legality and scandals is a given one. We have been elected by order to deal with phenomena of interaction and against every scandal, our position is no different. She's always the same. Where we find scandal cases, we send them to justice. This has also been seen by other moments of today's process. There are three types of legality control in our country, the judiciary, the internal administrative and the parliamentarian. We are also prepared in this case to look into all these three controls, any doubt as to the legality of the contract. It is clear that my preparation has been in connection with the written question, and I shall, above all, address these questions. On the new elements you have put forward today, I am obviously indulging, because I cannot control either their validity or whether they really come as declared by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So I say that my position will be based on the questions of the written question. It can't be any different. And I can tell you again that all this information, which you have put to our attention, will be studied. And, of course, you also have a duty, since you consider them to be illegal acts, to testify to them in justice too. I would like to tell you, however, what action we have taken as a government. The judicial review to which I referred comprises two decisions of the Council of State and seven decisions of the Court of Auditors. It is true that these rulings in disputes concern specific objections and cannot be made differently within our own internal judicial system. In particular, the Court of Auditors' decisions are based on an internal audit of an administrative nature, not a judicial body, which takes the relevant step. As you will see in the documents that I will be tabling, the seventh step that has gone ahead in controlling legality, considers that both the notice and the underlying procedure and the contract are legal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u143	It doesn't prove legality.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u144	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u145	I'll testify for you to see. First of all, I should like to answer the reproach you are addressing me. I shall submit all the documents you have requested, all those which are not confidential, i.e. the contraaor's contracts and the judicial decisions. For subcontracting contracts, for which I will then speak, because they have some characteristics of commercial secrecy, they are in room 150, at your disposal to see them. So I have to be clear from the beginning. Everything will be in the light. The picture I have had so far from the control I have done and for which I am going to speak more detailedly then is that there is no question of legality, no legality, with all due regard, for the new documents, the new issues that you have raised today. So judicial control is that. With regard to administrative control, in view of the question, I commissioned the Inspector-General, who is responsible for internal administrative control with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to examine the issues you raise in your question. That is why I have put it in the Chair of the Committee on the Enforcement of the Convention to see whether the objections you have in the written question about subcontracting - whether it could be done, etc. - were legal or not. On this issue and the recommendation of the agency and my opinion are that there was no contradiction in this sub-contracting. Let us take things in turn, however, because they must hear us understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u146	But "I KNOW HOW" or...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u147	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u148	Mr President, let the Minister speak. We were making it easy for you. You want to go on a trip. We have interrupted the procedure and you are now saying that we are limiting you the right. Let him speak and you'll talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u149	Mr President, it was first of all the procedure and you put the other one into emblems. By the two, I'll wait...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u150	Did I say don't wait?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u151	...and I'll sit over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u152	Then why are you pushing us?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u153	I'm not pushing you. If necessary, I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u154	So these come from the documents available to us to move to administrative control. There are therefore the following: For the first time a competition has been conducted to find a contractor of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for visas. Until first, until 2015, this was done by direct delegation. This contest is not about supply or work. It concerns the award of a service contract, and this is where the difference in relation to the economic object lies. The economic object to which you referred concerns the total cost of visas, that is, the total cost of the money paid by those who want to take a visa to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The contraaor's remuneration shall be a percentage of that amount. That is why there is this difference between the initial amount and the other. In any case, however, the legal quality of this contract as a public service delegation was correctly reflected in the contract notice and in the contracts. Article 23 of the Convention excludes the total substitutability of part or all of the service provider's obligations towards the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. However, there is an explicit provision and I read it out: 'The provider is entitled to recruit subcontractors with the consent of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which he cannot deny without a reasonable reason'. There is, in fact, a possibility for the entire project to be granted to a subsidiary. This was in the contract and was not judged in the context of judicial review as opposed to any legal authority. It's in the contract, which I'll testify for. It's Article 3. All of this is filed. It's in the paperwork.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u155	What contract?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u156	Mr President, please, please, the Minister must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u157	Mr President, we are talking at the basis of the documents and exactly all these documents are available to you. We're not talking out of paperwork. I say, therefore, that the image I have to date, which is based on the judicial decisions which have so far been based on the internal administrative control that we have, through the institutionalised body of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, of the inspection, come to the conclusion that there are no evidence that conceals illegality. That is precisely because at the third level of control - and I referred to the judge, the administrative and the parliamentary committees - we want to be fully transparent, and that is why this debate is taking place today and all the information that will be put forward will obviously be dealt with. So what I want to assure the House for most I think - because we have given well-known scriptures - is that our commitment to legitimacy is a given one. No tolerance to illegality, and that is exactly where all our efforts at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs were directed. I shall then refer to the other questions in question one by one. Parliamentary control and the difference...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u158	So, Minister, you take the time of your prototype twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u159	I would suggest that I devote part of this time to being able to place myself in the answers of others. I'll try to be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u160	You have the option for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u161	So to have a picture and, above all, those of the Greek people are listening to us, because we are addressing them - the first question of the question was whether control of legality replaces parliamentary control. I already answered. Three kinds of control we have in our national constitutional order. I want this procedure to be submitted to all three types of control. The second question is based on an incorrect condition. I would like to ask why Section V(5) of the notifications states that contracts may not be awarded to subcontractors, whereas the content of that reply shows that the respective contractual texts provide for this. I have pointed out here that Article 23 prohibits the award of part or part of the contract at the time of the notice. Subcontracting may be used as execution assistant. Therefore, not as a substitute for the subcontractor's obligations, but for individual actions. I would like to ask whether the provider of these contracts has declared in his offer the award of all or part of the corresponding services to subcontractors and what exactly is this part of it. That is the third question. The fourth question is directly relevant, which is why I reply together: If the above provider had entrusted all or part of the services to subcontractors, what part of it is, what are the subcontractors, what are the terms. The fifth question is also directly relevant: If the supply of all or part of the services in question to subcontractors has been notified to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Six, if he's approved. Seventh, if it has carried out any checks. These are the questions you ask me. As I said before, all subcontracting contracts have been requested and are available to you in room 150 so that they can be checked.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u162	It's public documents, you have to give them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u163	He's on the access of the House. The argument put forward by my legal services - and indeed the suggestion was not to be tabled at all - is that there are certain issues of commercial secrecy relating to the pricing of contracts. I took the responsibility of diversifying myself from the agency's suggestion, which was that they should not be tabled to the House at all. That is why I am putting them to your attention, precisely because I have accepted in part the argument that there is a commercial secrecy relating to the economic agreements made by the contractor with the subcontractor. But it is at the disposal of the House, I repeat. For those Members who are not here and cannot have access, I commit that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will also be in place on Monday and Tuesday, if requested, for these documents to be read.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u164	Do you have the scientific service report in writing?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u165	There's 150 in room, Minister. There are already.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u166	It is not the recommendation of the Scientific Agency. It's the opinion I asked the Inspector General, which I had appointed as head of staff. He's on a plan to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u167	Minister, you don't have to come to the Ministry, even though the Ministry isn't far away. He's here in room 150 of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u168	Deal. I also answered a question, because I want to be absolutely transparent. I repeat that we have nothing to hide in the foreign ministry in this case, nor is it our intention. We always want the knife to control legality to reach the bone. Let us be clear and clear. All these subcontracting contracts have therefore been submitted to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is at your disposal to check them. Whenever it is declared that there is a subcontractor in the sense of the assistant, in order for our respective consular and finally the committee responsible to approve, there is an on-the-spot check by either our consul or by a diplomatic official. Only if these subcontractors are deemed to respond as execution assistants, I repeat, the obligations of the contract, we are moving forward. In all, therefore, the questions which have been raised in mind have been summarized: there has also been thorough monitoring by our services and with my own personal responsibility as a lawyer and nothing has been found to be wrong. I repeat that the new evidence put forward in my mind will be examined as necessary. Obviously, it would be irresponsible for me to now place myself on this. I haven't even seen them. But our commitment to the application of the principle of legality is given, undeniable and unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u169	Mr President, I would like to make a clarification to the Minister. [[CHANGING PAGE]] The calculations I made were not based on EUR 60 of the total price collected by the provider, but on EUR 20, which the provider keeps on the basis of the notice. If you put one million entrances, which is the whole of Ukraine with Russia, for 20 euros each pays to the provider - beyond the 40 euros received by the Consulate - it is 20 million euros a year. For four years it is 80 million euros. If you've put it in for eight years that the contract lasts, it's 160 million euros. So that is what I told you, instead of the competition going under the contract principle, we should get the 160 million or at least 80, and not 15. You understand that, I think. We have not calculated on the basis of the total amount it collects, but on the basis of the percentage. I will tell you this, Minister, that the company allegedly signed with the Ministry, which we do not know, because we do not have the final contracts - which you must give because it is a public document - GVCW, in its balance sheet in 2017 and 2018, presents nothing but damage and a turnover of 120,000. I mean, I want to tell you that there is also money to be followed by the prosecutor, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and probably the Black Money Laundering Authority. We have the application of the famous Irish sandwich, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u170	Ladies and gentlemen, we are returning to the request for waiver of immunity here. After the count has been completed, I have the honour to announce the outcome of the electronic roll-call vote on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament, Mr Aristides Fokas, Mr Marios Salmas and Mr Andreas Loverdos. On the case of Mr Aristides Fokas: A total of 215 Members voted. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 212 Members voted. On the question of immunity, i.e. 'OH', three Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore admissible. On the case of Mr Mario Salma: A total of 214 Members voted. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAI', they voted 209 MPs. On the question of immunity, i.e. 'OH', 4 Members voted. ‘PARON’ a Member of Parliament has voted. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore admissible. On the case of Mr Andreas Loverdos: A total of 214 Members voted. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 213 Members voted. Against the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'OR', he voted 1 Member. 'PARON' voted no one. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore admissible. The result of the roll-call vote is recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u171	Ladies and gentlemen, we are going back to the debate on the topical and urgent question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u172	I would like the floor for a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u173	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u174	Mr President, as I have asked you before, but I think it can also be formally tabled - the documents, which Mr Kammens has already tabled, cannot be classified now if they have been submitted and have no confidentiality. For this reason, I ask, on behalf of my party, that you have accepted them, that the Members, the rapporteurs, the parliamentary representatives should receive them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u175	I explained what I had to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u176	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u177	Here you go, Mr. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u178	Mr President, this request from the New Democracy too. Once the documents have been lodged, they must be signed by the Bureau and shared by the parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u179	Yeah, I get it. Mr Constantine Katsikis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u180	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after what is revealing in this case, which is the content of our topical question, the President of the Independent Greeks has tabled this step, let me point out at this point that we are not independent MPs, despite the fact that the unfair and underscored Rules of Procedure of this Parliament ranks us and likes us with independent MPs. However, we are not independent MPs, because neither the movement, which we are serving, the movement of the Independent Greeks, have left, nor as a deletion we have been up and left elsewhere. That is why I would like to make it clear to both the Bureau and the channel of Parliament and to any other television or radio media that we are Members of the Independent Greeks and do not take the status of an independent MEP, regardless of which - I repeat - that if the sloppy and unfair Rules of Procedure of the House are likened to us and, of course, the 'left parenthesis' of SYRIZA justice, he has left him as such a regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, today's topical question demonstrates, in the most convincing way, our commitment to the parliamentary process and our full interest in the exercise of the whole of government policy. A concern and agonizing demand from the President of the Independent Greeks and former Minister of National Defence Panos Kammenos was, since we were still a government partner - and we remain a concern - the transparent functioning of both public services and their political leaders. I will, of course, make a few points, because he has fully pointed out and developed the reasons why the plenary was intended. However, ladies and gentlemen, political responsibility does not mean non-responsibility, it does not mean no responsibility. On the contrary, according to our worthy list, political responsibility means full responsibility. They don't fit halogens, they don't fit shadows. On 1 March 2019 Panos Kammenos with his question number 6138 asked the Foreign Minister to testify: First, the contracts with number 1692 for Section 1, with number 1693 for Section 2, and the corresponding contracts for Sections 4 and 5 signed between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Global Visa World Center Hellas, to provide support services for consular authorities or consular missions in the visa process. Second, to submit any other documents signed between those conventions before or after the signature of those conventions and relating to the same services. Thirdly, to submit any contract or other document submitted to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and from which the cooperation of the company ‘Global Visa World Center Hellas’ is established with any third natural or legal person, with a subcontracting relationship or with any other legal relationship, e.g. concession, etc. and for those services. Fourthly, submit any document which has been notified to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs the assignment of all or part of these services by the Global Visa World Center Hellas to any third natural or legal person with a subcontracting relationship or with any other legal relationship. Fifth, submit any other document whereby the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has approved the assignment of all or part of the above services by the company to any third natural or legal person, with a subcontracting relationship or with any other legal relationship. Sixth, any document by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs which deals with the control of the assignment of all or part of the above services by the company ‘Global Visa Center World Hellas’ to any third natural or legal person, with a subcontracting relationship or with any other legal relationship. I wonder whether it is parliamentaryly compatible, that the question should be answered halfway through and that the documents should not be deposited. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A little tolerance, Mr President, please. As the Minister of Foreign Affairs in his letter of 26 March 2019, he generally referred to the process, which took place in order to provide support services for diplomatic authorities, in the issue process, and referred to the contracts signed subsequently by four conventions with their numbers and nothing else, nothing more. It did not provide copies of the contracts and their annexes, but it claimed, incorrectly, that their content is posted on the TED database. In this database, however, only the intended contract award notifications are posted and, in fact, only for two of the signed contracts as a whole four.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u181	I testified them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u182	Of course, Mr Minister, and thank you for tabling them. I do not want to believe that there has been any pressure on you to do so, but in the exercise of your ministerial duties and with all the explanations you have given, you have found it right to take them into our hands. And we'll take them. These notifications contain only certain elements, which we have had so far, of the signed conventions, as provided for in Community Directive 2004/18, and not all the terms of the conventions and their annexes. The statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, apart from the fact that I wish to believe it was unnecessary, since they are contained in the above database, does not fulfil or fulfil the objective of parliamentary control so far. Parliamentary control must be essential and detailed. It is therefore required to check all the articles and commitments of those terms. Because otherwise, it does not allow the questioner to know of everything that has been perceived for the performance of the four conventions, which were signed under the Minister of Nikos Kotzias, concerning a newly established company, without any experience at all, with capital, the absolutely minimum compulsory amount of EUR 24,000. At this point, I think it is worth pointing out this and I would ask you to pay attention. The contracting company, which was finally awarded by the international competition, was established only twenty days after the competition was opened by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with the least possible capital and founding shareholders of the two former ambassadors, Mr. Platis and Mr. Zepo, who is a high-ranking executive of the company...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u183	Mr. Comrade, you also took the time of your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u184	Well, then, since I have also taken the time of my dentistry, Mr President, a little bit of the time of tolerance for both protagonists and dentology, and I shall end. So I was talking about Mr Zepo. I said he was a high-ranking member of the MYTILINEOS Group and was a close associate of George Papandreou. He was Secretary General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from 2009 to 2012, as well as former Head of ELAS and Minister of Civil Protection at the time - Mr. Economou. The seat of the newly formed company was defined as the apartment of Mr. Platis on the Danokrats Street in Lykavittos. This contract concerns the task of entrusting an important and sensitive public service to individuals. For this reason alone, the House is entitled to receive full knowledge of the procedure for awarding this public concession and of the way in which this public service is provided. Therefore, it is at least incomprehensible that anyone's refusal to help us in research and control the collection of such documents, which we need, in order to reach the point of our timely question. In particular, it was not clear whether the audit involved the legality of all the terms of those contracts and their annexes, in particular when the Court of Auditors' decision No 20/2017, which was presented in the meantime as a link between Nikos Kotzias' lawsuit against Panos Kammenos, did not appear that the Court of Auditors had carried out an audit of all the terms of the contracts. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a global originality during parliamentary scrutiny that the Minister for Foreign Affairs referred the questioned Minister of National Defence to a website and not to submit the documentary evidence until a moment ago. Of course, if we hadn't had the newest on the case by Mr Katrugalo, I would ask what would be the above. Finally, I will say that the Independent Greeks will highlight the methods and underground routes and put them in the Greek people's crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, too. It is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" hall and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-nine students and students and two teachers from the European Kilkis High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Maria Kollia-Charuha has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u186	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have a little time to develop such a big and dashing issue, but if someone sits down and sees it calmly, it will understand it very easily. I recognise the bad position of the new Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Katrugalou, to support things that I believe he is right to be in a difficult position, but it is also his duty to then do so by the state. But what is your duty to do, Mr Katrugale, is to undo all this, which we are denounce today, but too much else, which I believe you are aware of. So, starting with my first place, I would like to say something that most people know about, which may move abroad or have relatives, that is to say, to get a visa, residing in a country outside Schengen, she has to pay a sum for her extradition expenses. The capital that is collected is obviously too large, considering the huge number of people entering our country from non-Schengen countries. That's enough of a million euros. From this chapter, if we deduct the costs of the checks and the completion of the visa issue, there is a significant gain to the Greek State, which is the greater, the less the mediators, the stakeholders, in any case, in the process cycle. So they're returning this money to Greece? Are they taxed? They're being transferred to offshore? Are they moral and legal? I will give you a rough example in relation to Russia. As the Ministry had to declare a contract value according to the data relating to the subject matter of turnover with all tourists, issued a visa per State and all the States of the territory designated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, on the basis of the statistics of the previous years by law, it follows from the notice on which we are discussing that the amounts declared as contract value are clearly and provocably lower than the actual value of the contracts. That is what we believe it was intentionally done, as it is impossible for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs not to know this information, in order to facilitate the company in question in order to guarantee the participation and good execution of the project and, on the other hand, if the true value of the contracts were presented, the competitive procedure, in accordance with the law, would follow other rules. Therefore, the legislation of Law 4413 of 2016 and in accordance with Directive 214/23 of the European Union of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 January 2014 with FEK A' 148/8-8-2016 sets out in detail how the value of the contract is calculated. The real value of the contract - I mentioned only Russia - is as follows: it is apparent from the Bank of Greece and from the National Statistical Authority that, on average, all Russian tourists, for several years, from 2010 to 2014 - and on the basis of revenues - are about 1.159.287. If we only calculate the service fee, that is what we have already said, the EUR 20, then we have about EUR 23,185,740 per year. By multiplying them for eight years only by the State of Russia we have revenues of EUR 185,485.920. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs for Zone 1, which comes under Russia, and Iraq, Belarus, the American continent and possahara Africa, has declared as a project value EUR 7.5 million, instead of the real value of EUR 185.5 million, which relates to the calculation - I say again - for Russia alone and not for the whole of Zone 1. So, of course, we have a lower value of guarantee participation and good execution of 2% to 5 respectively. In other words, we have reduced the amount of guarantees that had to be paid. However, apart from the fact that the guarantees do not correspond to the risk and the resulting non-guaranteed risk - by law - that exists in the Greek state, we have substantial other data on the project, namely. since even if these trivial guarantees of liability of the contractors, which were ultimately taken over, were to be abolished, the damage suffered by the Greek State would be multiple. Thus, the real power has the one who performs the project, as the Greek state has no substantial way of putting its demands on such a sensitive sector of tourist products. To sum up, therefore, for Zones 1, 2, 4, 5, which were awarded through this clearly-established tender at GVCW Hellas, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has as a whole the value of contracts of EUR 15.5 million, while the real value, with moderate - such as the calculations I have made - exceeds EUR 1 billion, where it is calculated on the basis of the total management fees it reaches EUR 2 billion. The second point, which I would like to say, is that, according to the general confession and journalists who have investigated the issue, the final Greek visa service in most countries is provided today by the same company, which provided it before the competition, which was carried out during Mr Kotzias's term of office. I am referring to the newspaper 'PONTIKI' - I will submit the relevant documents to the Minutes - and to a website, TVXS, which is known to many of you, with a specific origin of the owner and the author. The company, therefore, VFS Limited, based somewhere between London and India, but also with recognised know-how and experience, as we learn from journalistic media, remains today the final provider of the service, in the vast percentage of foreign visa points. It is particularly interesting that this company was not the winner, as has already been said, of the competition concerned, although it participated in it. If you are wondering, however, how the company that lost is the company that finally provides the service, the answer is simple, worthy of the people who have led our country to the crisis. ‘VFS LIMITED’ acts as a subcontractor for the winner of the tender, because he did not have and has no opportunity to provide a service. So the winner is simply paid, without doing anything, and without offering anything substantial, as even the visa money is collected by VFS LIMITED. This is a clear mechanism for financing a day by creating a useless mediator, who receives a 'legal', say, mime at the expense of the Greek public. Ladies and gentlemen, if someone bothers the style of my description, I must say that everything you hear is not up to me or Panos Kammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u187	The time of your dentistry is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u188	I take my dentistry, Mr President. They write them, as I pointed out, already these instruments. And I have to tell you that I have seen Panos Kammenos in the SIEMENS committee, and since then I have been following him, because I believe that what he knows why he says it and can prove it with documents, however hard it may be, even though he has been at the forefront of many of the system for many years. It is therefore clear that everything we are asking must be enriched - and I can say that we can also come back to a new timely question, because things are constantly on the surface, and we are investigating - they require investigation. And the answers so far, Minister, with all due respect to your face, do not really answer anything. The Minister who gave the answer to the questions asked by Mr Kammenos was content to refer to Article 23, which he gave in his reply and provides that the provider is entitled to take over subcontractors, with the consent of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs cannot refuse without a reasonable reason. We will not stick to the fact that the answer does not in any way explain how the newcomer, with just EUR 24,000, 'Global Visa Center World Hellas', with owners - we say it again - Mr Leuteris Economou, State Secretary for Civil Protection at the Government of Papadimos and Head of ELAS - unfortunately! - Ambassador Dimitris Platis, Secretary General of the Ministry of Education and Transport to the Government of New Democracy - unfortunately! - and Ambassador Ioannis Zepo, Secretary General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Government of PASOK - unfortunately! - he managed to win the competition without having beyond the confessed significant CV of its founders, no other experience, organisational status, staff and means to carry out the required work. We will not even remain in the position that despite the strong objections and appeals of other companies involved in the procedure and despite the Court of Auditors' decision that cancelled the delegation to the company, the then Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Kotzias, has finally intervened and the Court of Auditors' decision has been referred back so that the newly created company can take over the work. Mr. Kammenos also sent you a relative mail. However, what cannot be accepted is the lack of documents containing the terms of cooperation of the provider with his subcontractor. It is incomprehensible that the Minister's refusal to present to the House some contractual texts linking the provider with the subcontractor. It is also unacceptable that there are no contractual texts between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the subcontractor or what you have just claimed, Minister, on the confidentiality of trade etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u189	Finish it, Mrs. Collia.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u190	I'm finishing my speech. The question is even more overshadowed by the fact that in the notifications of contracts in the TED database, it is stated that contract services, which is clearly contrary to what the Minister says about the content of Article 23, cannot be put into subcontract. It is therefore imperative that Parliament be informed today if the company that won the tender had declared to its bid the subcontractor, if he finally offered his services, and if he continues to offer them to this day. And I call on the Minister, in turn, to give complete, convincing answers, to take responsibility for the complaint and lay-out of any irregular situation. It is now obvious that the attempt to blur and the refusal to submit the necessary answers. And all this is just the clear confirmation of the complaints Panos Kammenos has made against the former Minister of Foreign Affairs and the creator of the Prespecies Minority Agreement, Mr Kotzias, which has now begun to understand even the closest party allies and his partners. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is our minimum requirement, no matter how much it hurts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u191	Mr. Aristides Fokas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, if you want to maintain the moral advantage, which you are referring to only with the words, you should first stop talking to the phone and answer all our questions orally and in writing. In a question tabled by Mr Kammenos, the answer we have received was incomplete and, where we have addressed it, we have not found complete contracts.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u193	Let me interrupt to explain. You're right. We had an NSA and I'm being taken by some members and they're asking me for now. That's why I was on the phone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u194	All right, Minister. Go on, Mr. Fokas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u195	As I said just now, in Mr Kammenos's question we received a reply incomplete. And where the Ministry led us, we finally found incomplete contracts and did not receive a complete answer to our questions. So I want you to listen carefully. We want orally today, as long as time takes us, but also in writing, to reply to us about the work contract of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with the service provider for issuing a visa in the four of the five geographical areas of the world in which it belongs, almost all of the tourists receiving visas to enter our country. First of all, where is the complete contract of the project with the GVCW company, which we have not been able to find? We see that this company was founded in July 2015, twenty days after the competition was opened. Did he have the necessary experience to take over this project? I guess not. Wasn't there any other companies in the European Union who have any experience? Did it become an international competition? If so, why was the GVCW chosen that had no experience at all? We see that this company, GVCW, initially three, Mr Platis, Mr Economou and Mr Zepos participate. Did these three have the experience to undertake this huge project? The initial seat of the company was the residence of Mr. Platis. Didn't it surprise you how it is possible for this company to undertake this important project? Why didn't you choose from an international competition - if it happened - a normal company?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u196	After it happened and you know it. There were seven companies.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u197	Since you've ruled out...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u198	A normal company didn't choose and choose the company that has no experience and was founded twenty days after the competition was opened?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u199	After finally getting it, VFS.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u200	Mr. Foka, go on. When you realized that you did not meet the specifications for this project, he worked with an Internet company, "I Know How". Who is this company and who is the owner of this company? Look it up? Why, after this GVCW and I Know How, did you proceed to the contract with GVCW? Minister, let's not hide. The business is too big. Each visa costs 60 euros to the tourist. From EUR 60, 20 is received by the provider. Mrs. Kollia well analysed. Is the company taxed for 20 euros? With rough calculations - as my colleague has said - if we multiply EUR 20 by EUR 1,100,000, we are talking about over 20 million. Is this company taxed? We don't see a balance. We searched her and could not find the company's balance sheet for these millions anywhere. Under all contracts you have the right to request and receive the balance sheet of each company having a project contract with your Ministry. Have you done this? Where's the balance to see exactly what's going on? Where is GVCW's profits taxed and the money hidden? Did you check the fact of possible tax evasion? If so, we want the outcome of your actions. From the EUR 60, therefore, the visa, the EUR 20, is kept by the company. We don't know how he keeps them, but he does. The 40 euros from every visa they have to go to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, can you tell us how you receive them? Is it cash, should I? He sends them by transfer? Every time you receive money and what are these amounts? The questions we ask are specific and we need specific answers. Is there any evidence of the money that comes into your ministry? So we want depository deposits - if there are - and if you take cash, tell us how you get them. The business, all Greek citizens have to understand, is very big. How many tourists are coming to our country taking a visa via GVCW? What's the big deal about this company? Where and how are they taxed? How much is the foreign ministry's revenue from issuing a visa in the four of the five geographical areas of the world? And where does that money look? Mr President, I would also like to have a second word to answer the Minister. I have more to say. This job is very interesting all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u201	You left a few seconds! Mr. Minister, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u202	Yes, Mr. President. I shall refer to the specific questions that have been raised. Firstly, because some of the positions appear to have been prepared before my first speech was heard, I repeat that all the documents requested have been lodged - they are documents relating to contracts and judicial decisions and documents relating to subcontractors - in Chamber 150, despite the reservations that existed in the light of Article 19 which imposes confidentiality. I think that parliamentary control requires that this reservation of commercial secrecy be overcome. Therefore, everything that was available to us as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is in light. Secondly, because Parliament's control obviously does not only concern matters of legality, but also matters of political order - we have mentioned names that were included in the company - to say the self-evident thing: it is impossible for any kind of political feasibility to be attached to the government in terms of the choice of a company in which these persons were involved, apart from the fact that every legal procedure has been followed, as far as we are able to know from what I have placed them, but also because they do not have any relationship with the political area of ours. They, as you know, had a public report either as political persons in the governments of New Democracy or the government of Papademos, to be clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u203	We don't have a problem with faces.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u204	Agreed, but I answer. We're not just talking. The Greek people are listening and they must have a full picture. Subsequently, in terms of the amount of the company's receipts - I will submit the relevant document - the total of visas processed by the provider under the contract is 571,681 for 2018. With a single multiplication coming out that's about 11 million. For Russia, for example, you mentioned, it's for Moscow of 343,000, for St Petersburg of 300,000, for Novoroskisk of 21,000. The sum is about 360,000. Why are these figures different from what the Bank of Greece gives? Because many visas are three years old and five years old.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u205	How much is this?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u206	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u207	Wait a minute. We respond with data. And the numbers are one of the undoubted elements. So, as is clear from this document that will also be filed, 11 million are about to be collected from this year...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u208	Time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u209	Time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u210	For four years it's forty-four.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u211	So, depending on that size class I said at first. As regards the questions raised and which are unanswered, as if there were any international competition, I would like to say that there has been an international competition. There were seven companies involved. The VFS, which was excluded, was ruled out for legal reasons as extraterritorial. Therefore, there may be objections from companies, but they were judged. That is why we have a case for decisions of the Council of State. Some questions hide an ignorance of how the Ministry of Foreign Affairs works. Visa revenue is consular receipts. There is a specific procedure whereby these are submitted and attributed, which has obviously been complied with.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u212	Well, tell her.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u213	Finishing this first placement on the issues that were raised...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u214	Good. You've got a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u215	Obviously. If I have to, I'll use it. I want to be clear, then. Anything you asked in your written question was answered. All the documents you requested were filed. The firm conviction which I have, based on the research we have done, is that there are no legal shadows in this particular matter. And my personal opinion on former Minister Kotzia - I know him thirty-five years - is that there is no shadow in his moral integrity. I repeat that the new elements which you have put in mind - if it is obviously investigated, the accuracy of their origin - will also be taken into account when and when I have the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u216	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u217	Not now, Mr President. Now we are going to the parliamentary delegations. I gave you the floor on several occasions. What else can I do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u218	Just 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u219	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u220	The Minister, with what he said now, has already sent to the interrogator Mr Kotzia. He said that the annual revenue from Russia is 11 million. Right?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u221	Of all the belts.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u222	Yeah. It's 11 million. On four counts provided for by the ‘period of contracts’ law is 44 million. And Mr. Kotzias had a 15.5 contest. You've already sent him to the interrogator with what you're saying. Secondly, as regards the issue of origin policy, we do not care and should not be interested in you either. But you should be concerned, Minister, about your foreign affairs, if an ambassador, who is in active employment and who will take over the President of the Commission and knows it, speaks and writes with the president of the candidate company to take the contest and receives instructions to prepare the tender notice.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u223	All right, that's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u224	I'd have kicked him out on the street, Minister. I'm sorry to say that. And I don't have any policies, if you'd like, see if I heard Mr. Dragon say so. I put the matter to the Ministerial Council before I had these mails. But look for all this retired company, see why it came in. You told the House that the VFS company was being expelled. VFS does the job. This is where she became a parent company that gets a 20% miserable, and then we say where the money goes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u225	Mr. President, please. We now move on to the parliamentary representatives. You'll talk in turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u226	I will speak last, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u227	No, Mr President, that is not the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u228	As everyone asks, Mr. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u229	Mr President, you are well aware of the Rules of Procedure. As the Minister is present, we are starting in the parliamentary order. SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative is on the move, followed by the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. You know very well how the show is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u230	No problem. Does anyone else want to speak with the parliamentary representatives? Mr. Papatheodorou, do you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u231	In turn, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u232	Here, Mr. Amanatidis, talk to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr President. I think that the answers which the President-in-Office has given are clear, clear, crystal clear and complete to all the questions which have been asked. The Independent Greeks have tabled the same question just a month ago and the final answer that is being given, but in more detail so that there are no chances, says at the end that the service - because we are talking about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and I think it is first to see and if so and that is, since 2015, the year of publication of the notice of competition until now, has sent documents concerning the competition, beyond the Court of Auditors, to the Board of State, as well as to the Inspector-General for Public Administration for their own control, while a series of judicial decisions confirm the legality of the conduct of a competitive procedure at all its stages. I would like to add a few things, Mr President. I just want to say this: why does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs not do the same? Is it possible and what is the usual practice? What I have been informed about, because I have dealt with this at the time when I was assigned to represent the parliamentary group, is that all the countries of the European Union are using the provider, so that these services can be given and served by the citizens and those who want to take the visas. Of course, we must say here, because it has not been heard, that there is the possibility for the citizen who wants to come to our country to take a visa and go to the consulate and take the visa with the same procedure and with the same money. However, all the countries of the European Union - and this is an element, Mr President, which is not disputed and must be heard - are using the provider. The question tabled by the Independent Greeks, by the Group of Independent Greeks, refers only to the first element, the fact that the others are not allowed and concealed, which the Minister replied in detail. What I would like to say, Mr President, is that the policy pursued by this company, the first - and it is not a question of names and I am ending - was the assignment of these services by 2010 to be carried out directly. For the first time, a legal framework enters in 2014 and for the first time becomes an international public competition in 2015. As you know, in these cases the conflicting interests of companies have objections and courts. Only after all the objections which are rejected in the Council of State, the Court of Auditors, have been completed and are finalised, will they only be signed after three years. This is why it is the delay from the seventh of 2015, which is taking place in the international competition until 2017. The other is calculated as follows. As far as I know, from the documents I have in my hands, there is the Court of Auditors' assessment. The Court of Auditors' Plenary Session rejected the decision of the Court of Auditors' Z' Climax Act and the only time that is proved and there are figures in it is in this decision. The calculation may be - I will not be tempted, but I want to say it as a thought that came to me - 'three of oil, three of the vinegar, six of the oil'. The Minister said there are visas that last three and five years. On the other hand, the facts are the things that the Foreign Minister has put forward. For the first time, as far as I know, in this competition everything was set up by the Foreign Ministry committees and at the same time there are monitoring committees as to whether these companies actually offer good services, which are also monitoring the development of the whole project. For the first time, 10% of the revenue for the promotion of tourism is allocated. Mr President, I would like to refer to two positions and to some of the things you have said. It is the effort, even indirectly, that made by Mrs Kollia to become a connection with the 'concessive' as she said the Prespecies' agreement. I think that such things should not happen, because they are not different from what Mr Mitsotakis said, that the Macedonian was used to prevent pensions being cut. In any case, Mr President, I would like to state that, in my experience and regardless of the new elements that have been presented and which, as the Minister has promised, will be given, I believe, the legality and acts of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Nikos Kotzias, cannot be called into question. This is my appreciation, which I have to submit in public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, too. Mr. Kefaliannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Mr President. I will start by informing us that the services of this House have not yet distributed the documents submitted by Mr Kammenos because...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u236	Okay, don't rush, you'll get them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u237	I would like to make your commitment, Mr President, that there is no question of personal data since this particular case was made.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u238	You'll get them, we said. Proceed to your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u239	I am content with that, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been completed over six months ago that Greek citizens have actually seen the voiceless former ministers of the coup d'état exchanging between the hints, the insults and heavy intersections, which, of course, as you know very well, have even reached the point of suing. But because the theater of absurdity, which we have watched and experienced all this time, has its limits and because this whole thing is no one's personal case, I think some people should at last give concrete answers. And those who must give concrete answers and explanations are not primarily Mr Kotzias nor Mr Kammenos. I think their differences will be resolved by Greek justice, in which I recall that the New Democracy institutionalised and without any trace of micro-political feasibility, appealed from the first moment to the prosecutor of the Ice Bay by submitting the video of Mr Kotzia's interview with a television station. It is also very positive that the prosecutor of the Ice Arena has intervened. It must be noted that this is the first time in the history of the country where justice is intervening for charges being launched by a minister against someone else within the Council of Ministers. So what we are waiting for is the immediate investigation of the case. We hope that the Prosecutor, on the basis of today's debate in this House, will take all the necessary steps to ensure that the Greek citizens finally learn the truth about all these opaque transactions that have been reported for Mr Soros' company, as well as of course how various funds have been used by various ministries on various issues, for which there have also been complaints between the ministers at the time. What we are waiting for, however, today by the government is certainly not to resolve the difference between them. What New Democracy expects, ladies and gentlemen, is that the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, should stop pretending to be Pontius Pilate, stop quietly and give citizens clear political explanations, because the management of state funds is not about intra-governmental balances and each other's former colonists, but about Greek taxpayers. As a new Republic, I would remind you, we have asked Mr Tsipras to make his resignation letter public by pointing out that it is not a personal radio, but a public document. We asked, then, that Mr Tsipras pretends he does not hear from Mr Kotzias himself to make his letter public. And, of course, we then opened the procedure for submitting documents to the House so that Members can be aware of this letter. And of course we all know that this letter records events and inter-categories exchanged by Mr Kotzias with his former partners in the government, charges relating to illegal acts and which no one is entitled to cover. In fact, some articles on the Internet refer to the content of the letter of Kotzia and have revealed information that raises serious questions, including: The involvement of Prime Minister George Tsipras's cousin on suspected cases reported by Mr Kotzias, reports on the scandal of Mr Kammens in the case of selling the missiles in Saudi Arabia and reports of the opaque way Mr Kammenos seems to have managed the EU funds of the NGOs for refugees. That is what Mr Kotzias says in his letter. That is why once again, ladies and gentlemen of the government, we invite you to present this public document to Parliament. At the same time and in order to avoid forgetting, in Skopje, those who react to the agreement, invoking the testimony of the Greek Minister of National Defence, speak of buying out the essence of the Prespecies Agreement. And of course, in the face of all this, Minister, neither the sender nor the recipient can and are entitled to remain silent, because they are simply not their personal affairs. And to be clear as Mr Kotzia's resignation letter is not made public so much confirms that the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, Mr Kotzias and Mr Kammenos are blackmailing each other so that the truth is not revealed. You, Minister, had the opportunity to make a different point in a timely question I had tabled to you last November, as you remember, and then we had one, I think, a good debate in this House. But then you tried to square the circle, that is, from one hand you empty Mr. Kammenos, but because he was still your government partner, you maintained or tried to keep things wisely. Today, as I understand it, you are emptying Mr. Kammenos again. But you're on two boats right now. In fact, I have here your answer to a question of parliamentary scrutiny which you have asked Mr Kammens on the same subject. There you admit that the consular support service provider can hire subcontractors - you certainly said it in your initial position too - with the consent of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Of course, you added something that may be a little wicked. You said that the subcontractor can only be a performance assistant and not a substitute for the work of this company. But what has come out in the media too, but Mr Kammenos also denounces today, is that he actually substitutes for almost all the work and is not just a mere performance assistant. And that is something you must clarify. And what one understands when you read your answer, Mr Minister, is the following: first, as you have said, it can of course be a subcontractor. Secondly, the consent of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is required to be given to it. Thirdly, the subcontractor is not responsible for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but for the signatory company. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So the question is this: did the Ministry of Foreign Affairs give its consent to the Global Visa Center World to cooperate with the subcontractor? If so, you should also tell us which company you give your consent.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u240	They are the subcontracts that are in Room 150.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u241	Yes, Minister, but I don't think there's any trade secrets about the company's name. You have to tell us who this company is, if you give the consent and ultimately who's a subcontractor. And of course you must answer - whether you adopt it or not - whether this company is involved with certain interests which Mr Kammenos has denounced. And of course, on all these political issues, I think you should give clear answers and not half-white and hinting. However, because today, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there have been some other things in this Chamber, I would like to close with them. For example, it was heard by Mr Kammenos that there were two different notices with different content: one referring to Greece and one to the European Union, where one included the possibility of being a subcontractor, while the other was not. There was a complaint via the e-mails which were filed that in fact the chairman of the subsequent contractor exchanged an e-mail with the chairman of the Committee on Evaluation and actually told him how to determine the terms of the tender. In other words, in order to say it more popular, Mr. Kammenos has denounced you a iconic contest, because the contractor actually defined the terms of this competition. And I think that you should also give it specific answers on the basis of the documents that have been submitted to you. And of course you must also reply to what you were told that there were opaque procedures by the Minister of Tourism in cooperation with your Ministry, the Finance, for the year Greece - Russia. Because if I understood what Mr Kammenos denounced, it is that millions were made available for the promotion of the country, without such proof, without the legal proceedings being followed. And all this comes into one, according to Mr Kammenos, of the fact that some have actually taken money to pursue specific policies. With these thoughts, Mr President, and Mr Minister, I expect concrete answers and especially specific answers from the Greek citizens who are following us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, too. Mr. Papatheodorou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u243	As I was following, Mr President, Minister, the debate and what Mr Lovers and Mr Kammenos had said, I thought that if there were - not fifteen, twenty e-mails we read - an e-mail that Mr Lover had accidentally exchanged, you would have crucified him in the Constitution today. And you would have crucified him in the Constitution, because you would think there is evidence of what we, at least to date, have called a service. Minister, if you allow, I want to make two remarks. The first is about parliamentary control, and the second is about a very serious political issue to which I think you should answer. In this connection, then, with parliamentary scrutiny, following the submission of this question - because I understood today that it was turned into a question, precisely because there were no answers before and I acknowledge that you had no prior knowledge of all this and I recognise it to facilitate the debate - and while you were a member of the Ministerial Council, where all this had been discussed, I think you had every reason to look further at whether there were persons within this convention who have dictated the terms and conditions of the notice. Mr Minister, despite the fact that the documents submitted by Mr Kammenos - I saw the e-mails previously, because they asked him to see them - there reveal a very simple fact, that the person concerned or the interested parties were corresponding with members of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to draw up the notice and then the contract. In itself this is a scandal in a sensitive sector, such as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And I think that with the time you have taken to know all this, we should have answers which should not be 'come to see the conventions in Chamber 150'. Should it be as follows: Are there any prostitutes? Yeah, I found them. Was it the company which has taken over as a subcontractor which has dictated the terms and conditions of the contract notice? That's the question, it's nothing else, as you come to see the contracts. Because seeing the conventions at a time when these conventions have been drafted according to the person concerned, very simply, Minister, is a gift free to look at them. Two. If there was a sign of truth in all of this, in all these complaints - which I would remind you were not unknown to you within the Ministerial Council, but I will come immediately to this matter - if these accusations had a trace of truth - I am not telling you that they are correct, I am telling you a sign of truth - should you not have interrupted the contract to consider why there is a suspicion of scandal, corruption or anything else? So, in fact, what matters is that, in spite of all this, the convention continues as if there were no fire, no smoke, no trace or nothing. Minister, the political issue is more serious, however, because all of this - from what we have heard today - is not unprecedented for you, nor for the Prime Minister. In other words, we have a problem here, which arose at the meeting of the Ministerial Council, with the then Minister for National Defence denounce the then Minister for Foreign Affairs. Today, this conflict is between two ex-wifes, the former Minister of National Defence and the former Minister of Foreign Affairs. Both are out of government. This will be solved by the judiciary and by the Ethics Committee, which, to date, has no honour and the pleasure of seeing the Kotzia-Kammenos dossier, which has come to Parliament, but has not been delivered to us. Nothing's been tested yet. But let go of justice. So let us go to that Ministerial Council, where Mr Kammenos comes and denounces these things - I think that e-mail was not in - denounces this convention, this attitude of the Foreign Minister to the Prime Minister and the other Ministerial Council. Oh, don't, Prime Minister, what's he doing? As I said at the time, Mr. Catrugale, he's making the wheelchair of his ministers. Immediately afterwards, without taking a position or covering Mr Kotzias, Mr Kotzias leaves the Ministerial Council and goes right, he goes left, he goes to the President of the Republic and resigns after twenty-four hours. This political issue is being answered today? Because that's the problem. It's nothing else. Did the Prime Minister know that there were specific complaints from the then Minister of National Defence? When Mr. Kammenos from time to time threatened, while he was Minister, in the Kotzia case, to make revelations, why didn't the Prime Minister take a stand? Why, if it were - if you would - whether you would like - to be implicated or not, why would he not send Mr. Kammens away sooner? Minister, the main thing that seems today and is revealed by this debate is not whether Mr Kammenos made complaints here and Mr Kotzias, at the same time, interviewing someone else to answer them. Because Mr. Kotzias, if my memory doesn't cheat on me, he's a MP. Since he's a congressman, he could have been here to defend himself. No, he kept away from the conversation to give his answers. I, therefore, do not regard these complaints as reliable. I want them to prove themselves. On the other hand, however, I see a Prime Minister hiding behind two former ministers, not taking a stand, as he did not take a stand for Mr Pappas, for Mr Artemios, for Mr Petsiti, and he considers that all of this is a scandal to harm the moral authority of this government. No, Minister. That's the reality. You have come to power, in fact by cultivating hatred and division and falling into scandals. You're leaving power in the scandals. Scandals are daily now. And it is daily, because they reveal every time that not only was there no moral advantage of this government, but you used power, many used the power that the Greek people gave you the opportunity to take over in order to do business. These jobs are constantly digging into the air along with the amosomia there is. Because at the end of the day if there were a Prime Minister who listened to such complaints and knowing that these complaints would come to the public eye, he would respond, he would take a position and he could bring the government of the white man to the Greek people. So far, what we see is that the image of the government, a mortal government, is constantly falling under the diverse scandals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u244	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the Greek Parliament is organized and operated, fifteen American students and three teachers attending the LUTHER COLLEGE. The House welcomes them. Welcome. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Iliopoulos has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin my speech, I would like, because you were here the other day at the meeting we held on German allowances, to tell the Greek people that the Golden Dawn was normally raised, that the Golden Dawn group was up together.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u246	They weren't all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u247	So we were most of us, because you weren't all and don't do it like that, because New Democracy was five. I am simply asking, because some sluts, Mr President, have said that we have voted against, while we were here and were, of course, almost all of us at nine and a half at night in our parliamentary group. But, because it's by lifting up, don't put any such issues on it. So we have risen and I would like, Mr President, because you were here, to confirm this as President of the Greek Parliament, because you are the President and the three hundred Members of Parliament and we represent a part of the Greek people. I would like to interrupt my speech and give you some reason to confirm only this because we have received thousands of phones, and they ask us why we have voted against the issue of German allowances, their claim, whereas we in our programme for many years, tens of years, as long as the Golden Dawn exists, the first thing we say is the claim of German allowances, the claim of the mortgage and everything else that the German state owes us. We are the first to say that this should, of course, be included in the state budget, and should be claimed by Germany and until we get what Germany owes us, we should not give them a single euro. Mr President, were you the day before yesterday?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u248	Yeah, you're up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u249	We're up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u250	But it created a...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u251	What was created, Mr President, during the debate...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u252	One impression that they need to be offset...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u253	No, we haven't said anything to make it clear. Don't put any issues on it. The difference with the JRC is ideological and it will remain ideological and we have raised some issues in the JRC. But thank you very much for your formal position that at the end of the meeting...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u254	I mean to be offset by non-existent debts.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u255	We did not say that they would be set aside. When we voted, that was not the case. Mr President, please be clear. We didn't say netting at nine and a half at night. I'd like you to respond when you answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u256	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u257	You want to say we're up without a set-up? So I'm on my way. Obviously, there is here, within the Greek Parliament, a scandal that developed at the same time. Some new documents have been filed, which we expect to take, some e-mails, which obviously prove to be a scandal and a good one to be investigated. But what matters politically is that there are two former SYRIZA ministers who are currently in court. There's a Prime Minister who's been tracking the whole process in one piece...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u258	SYRIZA? You mean us? Not SYRIZA's. We're not SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u259	Yes, I call former government ministers. Yes, and Mr. Kammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u260	SYRIZA - ANEL.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u261	Yes, the SYRIZA - ANEL government. Okay, let me make it clear 'cause we have to be typical here. You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u262	As you clearly say, so do we.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u263	Two former Ministers of Government SYRIZA - ANEL and I mean, to be clear, Mr Kammenos and Mr Kotzias are in a court dispute now, which should be cleared up, because the Greek people now have to learn everything. It has been denounced by Mr. Kammens, your President, that within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs he has "shooted", as he says in his recent interview - you have obviously read it - Soros. This little hawk, Mr. Soros, has put a leg on it - so Mr. Kammenos denounces - inside the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But so far we have not seen the evidence that Mr Kammenos has announced. So we are anxiously waiting for all the Greeks to see how it has "shooted", because we believe this very strongly and we are the first to say so, not only in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but in every - within introductory - "Greek" government. There are too many issues that you need to clarify to us, all the wings here, so that the Greek people can be informed to have an image of who governs the place. Do not hide behind immunity, nor behind judicial disputes. You should come here and tell us everything that exists, so that we and the Greek citizens through the House can be aware of who is ruling the place. There's a trial in progress, which you remember whenever you want to tell us criminals. We learned that the Prime Minister's wife, Alexis Tsipras' wife, was at the trial today. So how can the wife of a Prime Minister go to sit in the audience in a trial of an entire political party, which we say has been driven there through a disgraceful construction of another party, New Democracy, and represent the public in such a trial, as Mr. Skourletis has been...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u264	I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u265	I'll explain it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u266	Who forbids it? Will you forbid it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u267	No one forbids it. I'm just wondering what you want to show Mr. Voutsi by bringing Mr. Skourletis to attend the trial? What do you want to act like? That you're anti-fascists? Do you want to influence? The Prime Minister's wife while you do it is the country's first lady. Let's not be fooled now. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like your tolerance, Mr President. When the first lady in the country goes and sits opposite the seat, he is, uh, showing some political intervention, a dose of political intervention, Mr President, if anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u268	Doesn't he have a right?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u269	We didn't say he had no right to do it. We are simply saying that it shows some political intervention when the President of Parliament goes, when he goes to your Minister, Mr Skourletis, when you bring Members, some intervention shows it. You have obviously frightened the percentages of Golden Dawn that are daily seen in society - and not in your fake polls - that they are rising rapidly. You've been frightened by all these disapprovals in connection with the Embassy Agreement. You've been frightened by all these anti-grass measures you're taking and captured, I say again, on the street, in the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u270	So you take responsibility for what happens to such events? Tell it where you're from that so-called protest.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u271	Did I say we're taking any responsibility? I said people react. Why are you saying I'm taking responsibility?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u272	Say it. Take the blame here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u273	I'm not taking any responsibility. Don't try. These political responsibility you have been trying for so long to charge to us have become a tiresome candy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u274	It may not only be political responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u275	As you say about political responsibility - I am sorry to say - for the world that is reacting, I would like to say to you that I saw a man who was with his daughter and the stroller where your candidate had gone yesterday. If you ask me, if I take responsibility for what the man told you with the little girl in the wheelchair, all right, I'll take her, if you've reached this point. But here your Prime Minister took political responsibility for the hundreds of people you burned in Matty. What are you saying? The little boy with the wheelchair that cried at you wherever you're going? Or do you want me to take responsibility for you who were judging you in Australia? Do you want me to take this political responsibility too? Mr President, let us get a little serious. These political responsibility you use all the time...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u276	I said it might not only be political responsibility. It could be another kind of responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u277	What responsibility could we have for going to Australia and judging you, Mr President? We should be a little serious. Can we have political responsibility?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u278	Unfortunately, there are samples of yours up there.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u279	What samples are there? Really? Well done. We've spread all over the world since there's samples in Australia.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u280	I'm afraid so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u281	Thank God you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u282	After the incident in New Zealand, you can be sure that it will be thoroughly investigated there.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u283	Have we been there too? New Zealand? Whoa! We're talking about global radiation of the Golden Dawn! Our relationship with New Zealand will also be explored. This relationship can also be investigated.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u284	The perpetrator had visited Greece, Mrs. Collia-Charuha.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u285	It may also be for the Virgin Mary of Paris the other day. It's very likely that script. Let's check it out. We did not take political responsibility, but it could be the fault of one of our own sub-offices who set fire to the Virgin Mary of Paris. What are you talking about? What New Zealand? You don't know what you're saying from insanity. You say Golden Dawn has set up its tentacles all over the world. What you're saying is exposes you. What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u286	I said about such practices, that's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u287	You've reached New Zealand. Now listen to what you've done. I said that no matter where you go to Greece, people boast you and you tell me about a murder in New Zealand. Fortunately they are recorded and we will put them in videos, people understand what is going on here, people understand that Golden Dawn is across from the party of political parties and fortunately. And there's been a voice of truth here ruining your soup. That's all. And you're trying to charge us up to Kapodistria's murder, maybe political responsibility, I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u288	Well, get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u289	So I move on because too much is happening. Yesterday, it was condemned - and I will now have to take some time, because I got out of my programme - the oldest method and another monk from the Monastery of Entangled for Molotov, seventeen years. They're, they say, fugitives and now they're supposed to be arrested, they're supposed to be the police at the NYPD to arrest them. Do that, too. Do that, Mr President. There to see later. There to see! You're messing with everyone. You're messing with Orthodoxy, with people who react to the Prespecies Agreement, with the family, bringing in LGBTKI here and some other strange supposedly defending their interests. You've been legislating for five years...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u290	Let me tell you now, because you want the dialogue. I haven't even put up with the orthodox that you say. I described criminal acts, that's what I did.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u291	What paganism, Mr. President? I'm talking about the Intended Monastery. The people are on the old calendar and you're talking about paganism?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u292	Well, come on, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u293	I don't understand what's really going on. Well, we'll find ourselves in front of you on any issue that affects Orthodoxy, affects our Greece, affects our family. We hope soon that Golden Dawn will come to things to finally clear this place, this country.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u294	Mr. Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u295	Mr President, thank you very much. My own intervention, the intervention of the Centroon Union, in this debate, that is, the contribution of the Centro Association can only be those questions and require answers from both the respondents and the respondents. Look, as today's debate has evolved, it has basically left the agenda, that is, the issue of the topical question submitted by the Independent Greeks. So at this moment in plenary there are some facts which leave real signs of scandal, signs of interlocutory, and I would say so too. So my question to the government is what he is thinking about, how quickly he thinks to investigate the particulars that have already been tabled in the Minutes of the House and to answer if and if he will quickly show reflexes, yes or no. We have a political issue here, Mr President, and the political issue begins with the complaint made on a cabinet. All ministers were present on the cabinet, while none of the ordinary members of the Greek Parliament were present. So, then, he knew too many people about complaints that a fellow minister, even if they were from a different party, had supported the Prime Minister. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] The question is whether it had any evidence, i.e. whether these figures, which were submitted here today, were also submitted to the Prime Minister's attention or only possible speculation. However, the fact of the expulsion of Minister Kotzia, after just that Ministerial Council, is something that creates evil thoughts for us who see it in a different perspective. On the other hand, I would also like to ask a question to the Independent Greeks, who have sincerely been homogeneous with this government. Have you thought, ladies and gentlemen, how much credibility does a complaint have when it becomes deferred? So, what burden do Greek citizens give this complaint? Although you have this information, which you have provided - and I have no reason at this time to doubt - tomorrow, the Minister will have to initiate proceedings today within the Ministry. Because of the evidence you've submitted, it may, if anything, not be visible that the Kotzia involvement is not visible, but it's definitely the employee involvement. This is the evidence from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Minister. And I am very sorry, and I say this about a ministry with the gravity and importance of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Dear colleagues of the Independent Greeks, you proceeded to a deferred complaint at the same time as the President of the Independent Greeks was a member of a Ministerial Council. It could have been taken away - I will tell you so - the Greek Government at that time by this specific complaint. And we could not have led to the ratification of the Prespecies Agreement. We want to keep up - but nobody leaves us - the image presented by the Greek Parliament. But you see that real stories come out all the time, which cannot keep the Greek people quiet, who do not give us the right to clean up as a political system to the Greek people. In any case, it is a case which - from the very least seen and visible - will begin to investigate Greek justice. The Centro Association expresses its conviction, its understanding and trust in Greek justice. But the sooner we get to Greek justice the better. The landscape to the elections should not leave questions, not leave grey, no fog of any kind for the political world, the one who will claim the vote tomorrow of the Greek people. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, Mr Saridis, for completing the circle of interventions by the parliamentary representatives. As far as I've seen, all the honourable Members have taken advantage of their adequacy and adequacy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u297	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u298	No, Mr. Katsiki, excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u299	Not what, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u300	What do you want? Secondary?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u301	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u302	All the questions?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u303	There are two of us, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u304	Listen: Mr. Cammenos spoke thirty-two minutes. Mr Katsikis spoke ten minutes and fifty seconds. Mrs. Kollia spoke twelve minutes and five seconds. Of course, Mr. Fokas spoke seven minutes and forty-six seconds. You've already translated secondary. If you want, one of you to take the floor for two minutes, to second, to say something. That is not possible now. Mr. Amanatidis, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u305	And to me, two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u306	Not provided. The Minister will close after that. The procedure is foreseeable.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u307	Mr President, you will see that I have not used the time of my dentistry. I just need two minutes. Immediately after the Minister closes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u308	Anyway. We'll give Mr. Katsiki the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u309	Mr President, I am surprised that you yourself are judging the odds. I'm sorry to be in the process to answer you personally for the management of time...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u310	I didn't understand that. Please. We are now in breach of the Rules of Procedure in order to take the floor. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u311	Not that kind of style, Mr President. Leave the Rules of Procedure. You have violated him many times yourself, speaking from the Step of the House, surpassing the time by 100%.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u312	Please. Are you talking about regulations now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u313	What's that supposed to mean? I didn't get it! What does "I" mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u314	Please. I gave you two minutes. Take advantage of him for your dentistry, for what you want to say and leave the shots to the Bureau. I'll give you any shots. Or are you going to talk...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u315	Listen, Mr. President. Such restrictions if you want to point to my face or distinction, which you want to make, I will not accept. You do this to me all the time. I won't accept it. I will have a second word, and you will also give my colleague Mrs Kollia the denunciation, if necessary and if she so requests.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u316	Lower the tone. We don't have to stir up our conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u317	If you do not want, then do not talk about my speech. You'll let me finish if you want us to have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u318	You're prejudiced, obviously. I understand that. You will refer to this question, otherwise I will remove your floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u319	The "preconceived" will get it back, because if anything you cannot preside and tell me that I am prejudiced.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u320	I'm explaining to you this far. I think we can close this conversation here. You can say what you want on the question, so that we can move on to the next speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u321	Give me the time from the start. I am sorry, because it took more than half the time to convince you that we must have time in the parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u322	You have also caused the Bureau on a personal level. Leave them now and don't try to create impressions. Please. Say what you want to say and close the conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u323	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have to reply to the questions raised during the sitting of our colleagues on our topical and urgent question. Unfortunately, some of them did not focus on the reflection we have put forward. You have of course retained a reservation on the new elements that have emerged in order to respond. After giving an initial answer, including the fact of our access to the information we have been asking for, it was said, however, that it was clear, crystal clear that the procedures of the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Amanatidis, and that for the first time there was an international competition. The fact that for the first time there is an international competition does not in any way dismiss the fact that the resulting elements find this competition diagnosed and perforated. So we explained that there was a competition, which had a dossier without an economic offer. In other words, the EUR 60 for the issue of each visa was the twenty and forty euros that would be received by the contractor who has reduced, say, the tender, but it does not mean that he has taken part in the tender with an economic offer to determine the amount of its commission, its profit to another amount less, of EUR 20 or more, depending on the conditions of the tender, to which there was no economic offer. My second point is that a chain of companies was involved, one of them newly created, which was initially rejected and retrospectively integrated into production cooperation - so I say - for the issue of visas. Of course, this method of competition was the last solution for the Greek State, so that through a company the visa issue could be served without the possibility that the State, in this case the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, could issue it by means of its services. The subcontractor was placed as the main point in which it appears that the European directive, which was incorporated into Greek law, did not provide for the existence of a subcontractor for the completion of the case. Mr. Kefaliannis entered the process of political controversy, talking about a cover-up between Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Kammenos and Mr. Kotzias, thus making the speech of the slander without telling us who covered whom and what. After all, as we publish transparency, we have left nothing hidden, even what has been observed in this House. Mr Papatheodorou, who of course had a thorough presence, has wondered why complaints from Kammenos have since made them at the Ministerial Council for the first time, not caused the decision and reaction of the Prime Minister to take part in it. But the Prime Minister took part in this. He expressed his reaction, after releasing Mr Kotzia from the Ministerial Council. And while we are still asking here for evidence to prove what originally comes as a suspicion today and is being put forward as a confidence in the events that took place and were our reaction to present a timely question, Mr Saridis - and I am closing down with it - said that the complaint was made deferred - and he did not tell us where he understood it - in order to connect it to Macedonian. They think that they are holding the prestige for the issue of Macedonian and Skopje, thus trying to displace our position, just as we have developed it in this matter. With all this, Minister, since I am grateful for the enquiry you are prepared to continue - and, when we are given this opportunity, I shall conclude my speech here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u324	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and running, thirty-nine students and students and seven educational attendants from the Evros Municipal School of Law and the 3rd Municipal School of Ferra also from Evros. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Amanatidis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u325	Mr President, Mrs Kollia has wanted to speak for a short time. We're questionable MPs...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u326	I'm gonna need two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u327	Mr. Amanatidis, let's follow the show. Let Mrs. Collia speak, and then you. I'll give you the two minutes you asked for. Here, you have the floor, Mrs. Collia.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u328	Thank you, Mr President. I understand the difficult position of the Bureau, but we too want to say two - three thoughts, which continue to highlight and demonstrate the anxiety we have about what is happening. I will not go into what I had in mind to say, because Mr Katsikis has already mentioned it, in relation to these positions taken by colleagues, representing their parties. I believe that today, the Independent Greeks with the remaining four MPs, led by the President of the Independent Greeks, have shown that there is so much evidence in visa awards and that a game of gain has been built around it at the expense of the public, a parapolitical and parasitic mechanism that has taken down and defeated public money and succeeded in changing governments. Although they change, they continue to exist. This mechanism lies, Mr President, both inside and outside the country and is therefore annoyed by the borders and by the existence of nations, because they prevent it from operating completely uncontrolledly. So this is a cancer that, if we do not defeat it, and if we do not admit all the political forces, and if we do not overcome all that, unfortunately, which, unfortunately, have occasionally risen like a glass wall between us, this cancer will continue. We must not allow it to dismantle governments and irreparably harm our entire country. We must give her the opportunity for justice, which we trust, to give her all the tools that she needs, because she can only deliver the law and help the truth shine. So this system, Mr President, is responsible for most of the phenomena we have seen in recent years, and you will allow me to say, including the Prespecies Agreement. No Greeks, we believe, who respects the law, fellow citizens, is enough to make unnecessarily retreat to established national positions, without them complying with the popular feeling, if he has nothing to fear and if there is no point in political pressure on him. Unfortunately, they confirm what I am saying. In conclusion, I would like to assure the Greek citizens once again through Parliament that the Independent Greeks and I, along with Panos Kammenos, will fight - and fight - to root out what we can most from the parasitic system of mediation, interactivity, the mechanism against our country and fellow citizens. It's not simple, it's not easy at all. There is so much dispersion of this interaction at every stage, unfortunately, of political and social life, but we are here and we will try. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u329	Mr. Amanatidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u330	Just two minutes, Mr. President. I think it's important.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u331	Here, Mr Amanatidis, you have the floor for two minutes. You can start.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u332	Mr President, thank you for your tolerance. At the wrong door, I think, with the question, but also with the positions of the parliamentary representatives, because the Prime Minister and this government are implementing draconian practices on the issues of legality, transparency and scandals. Those who really have scandals, who made direct assignments by 2010, who members and their executives are in prison can't move our finger. The Left has left not only its print but has placed its stamp in a new era where they are not tolerated. The Greek people will not allow all those who have been characterised by these practices and those policies that have brought us into bankruptcy to be reversed. And to close this issue, it's not public money, Mrs. Collia. It's not a contest that pays for something. There must be an explanation for this. So I want to say again, we don't have to identify ourselves. It appeared politically that two are the objectives of both Mr Papatheodoros and others: the moral advantage of the Left, which we guard as a daughter of an eye, and the patriotic attitude of the government, and the Minister of Nikos Kotzias, and the Prime Minister and all of us with the Prespecies Agreement. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u333	Thank you, Mr. Amanatidis. Minister, you have the floor for five minutes to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u334	Thank you, Mr President. I think that as far as the question is concerned, it was made clear by the procedure that the questions which had been put in writing were answered. All the documents requested were given. I am pleased to see that Mr Kammenos is already in the Chamber and is studying these documents, which he had asked for. As I said before, with regard to the data available to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and on the basis of the additional verification of the legality requested by the competent institution of the Ministry, there was no problem of legality. The new documents will obviously be examined in terms of their authenticity and validity. However, as there was talk of covertness, these documents had never been made known, but neither was there any reference to them. Of course, if it were in our knowledge, we would have considered them, because we said it was a basic principle and a rule for our Government that in matters of legality the knife should reach the bone. That is why it has indeed shown political courage, as the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman has said, parties in which we owe the system of interaction in the country - it has not been created in the last four years, nor has the Left ever been involved - and whose officials are in prison and other executives are being investigated, to speak of left-wing scandals. On the political issue, because there have also been questions which I think are not true here. There was a political conflict between Mr Kammenos and Mr Kotzia. Mr Kotzias' position was not his personal position, it was the government's position on Macedonia, where the party of the Independent Greeks was differentiated, and that is why he left the government. Mr. Kotzias was not dismissed by the government, he resigned. This to restore the truth in the critical political sizes. From there on, I shall briefly refer to the positions of the parliamentary representatives. Mr Kefalayannis, who is an experienced parliamentarian, who I respect, raised other issues from which they were discussed, secrets, for example, by ignoring that we are the first party to table a parliamentary supervision procedure on secrets. Transparent procedures in the ‘Russian Year’. How is it possible for fireworks to be thrown into a room? Obviously this shows a discomfort towards the core of the debate and an attempt to obtain political gain by infringing, in fact, respect for parliamentaryism. Mr Papatheodorou insulted me because I did not interrupt the contract, with elements which I did not know, because the first time they were put in my mind now, and whose validity I obviously could not control, simply to give a cover to the core of his claim that elsewhere we must look for the source of scandals and interactivity. But these things will not be discovered in this Chamber. It is in the conscience of the Greek people who have created scandals and who have created not only individual cases of illegality, but an entire system of mutual political and economic interests at the top of political power. That is where the problem lies. The position of our party and our government is stated and it is one of the reasons that the people have trusted us twice with the wheel of the country and which will do so again. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u335	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The debate is adjourned on number 10/8/29-32019 of a topical question, on the subject of 'Contesting procedure to show support services for consular offices of Diplomatic Authorities'. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Tuesday 12 February 2019, Wednesday 13 February 2019, Thursday 14 February 2019, Friday 15 February 2019, Monday 18 February 2019, Tuesday 19 February 2019, Wednesday 20 February 2019, Thursday 21 February 2019, Thursday 21 February 2019, Friday 22 February 2019, Monday 25 February 2019, Tuesday 25 February 2019, Wednesday 27 February 2019, Thursday 27 February 2019, Thursday 28 February 2019, Friday 1 March 2019, Monday 4 March 2019, Tuesday 5 March 2019 (morning) and Tuesday 5 March 2019 (night) have been distributed, and the House is asked whether they are validated.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u336	The minutes of Tuesday 12 February 2019, Wednesday 13 February 2019, Thursday 14 February 2019, Friday 15 February 2019, Monday 18 February 2019, Tuesday 19 February 2019, Wednesday 20 February 2019, Thursday 20 February 2019, Friday 21 February 2019, Friday 22 February 2019, Monday 25 February 2019, Tuesday 25 February 2019, Wednesday 27 February 2019, Thursday 28 February 2019, Friday 28 February 2019, Friday 1 March 2019, Monday 4 March 2019, Tuesday 5 March 2019 (morning) and Tuesday 5 March 2019 (absorbance) were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-19-S1-commons.u337	With the agreement of the House at 15.17 p.m., the sitting for the Great Monday, April 20, 2019, at 11.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
