ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Expressive arrangements for the competence of the Ministries of Health, Home Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs and other provisions". The above bill, following the decision made by the Standing Committees on Social Affairs and Public Administration, Public Order and Justice, on a proposal from the relevant Minister, is being discussed in accordance with Rule 76(4) of the Constitution and Rule 109 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. I would like to remind you that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of this House, the debate and the vote of the urgent drafts are closed at a sitting of a maximum of ten hours. During the urgent debate, the rapporteurs and special speakers, the Minister responsible, the Prime Minister and the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups and one of their representatives are involved. Their speech shall be limited to half the time provided for in Articles 97 and 103. I propose, in parliamentary practice, that the debate on the principle and the articles should be uniform. I also propose that the list of speakers be extended and that three speakers be appointed by each parliamentary group. On the time of the speech I propose that the rapporteurs and the special speaker should have eight minutes of speaking time, the responsible Minister, ten minutes, any other ministers and Secretaries, five minutes, the Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, as well as the President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, ten minutes, the Presidents of the other parliamentary groups eight minutes, the Parliamentary Representatives, ten minutes, set up by the parties. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore agreed. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Georgios Katrugalos is seeking permission from his absence abroad for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u3	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Also, the Member, Mrs Anna Mani - Papademiriou, asks for a short-day leave abroad for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u4	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr. Fotillas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the bill we are debating today, the New Democracy Government achieves two main things. First of all, provisions which do not allow critical areas of the state's operation to remain unnecessarily, because otherwise the consequences for citizens would be disastrous, such as the non-operation of hospitals with medical staff or the non-extension of the protection of first residence and the overdue debts of citizens. This fact also explains the urgency of the procedure that is being followed today. The second thing the government achieves is to continue its government work for the benefit of citizens through areas in the functioning of the administration and necessary reforms or improvements in previous laws. This includes the proposed changes to the crisis council procedure in Article 4 by electronic filing of files and, with a maximum of five institutions, a single health region and not an unlimited one, as has been done so far. However, also the changes in the functioning of the Civil Aviation Service, in order to make it more efficient, proposed by the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure in Articles 30 and 31, the objections raised by the opposition parties in committee were mainly related to the urgency of the procedure. I wonder, though, is it not the protection of the first home, or is it not a real cause of urgent legislation? Is it not the prolongation of debt regulation to the insurance funds or the new opportunity given to those who lost the one hundred and twenty instalments need for urgent procedure? Are we going to leave our islands without medical, paramedical staff and border guards, when you all know the shaped situation with responsibility mainly for the neighbouring country and Mr Erdogan? The regulations introduced are, therefore, necessary for the continuation of the operation of the State. In addition, many Vice-Presidents recognised, despite their criticism, that most of the proposed provisions are urgent. And let's be honest. The alternative route, since we agree that these provisions are urgent, would be not to bring in a bill and bring in amendments which we would have discussed in the last quarter in an unrelated bill without allowing any one of Parliament's wards to speak and speak. We didn't want to do that. In the New Democracy, we have decided to follow this parliamentary procedure so that it is overly urgent, yes, something that does not give all the context that we would like, but enables all the governments of the Parliament to hear. In substance, the bill contains urgent provisions from fifteen ministries. Four are the axes that move the bill. The first is to protect Greek citizens from the consequences of the crisis. This includes the arrangements for the first residence of the Ministry of Finance under Article 53, to which a last extension is granted from auctions until the end of April. It is well-known that there have been favourable arrangements by the government with specific provisions and we call on the borrowers to make the regulation even now, as they and the economy of the country will also be helped by the regulation of red loans. The protection of citizens from the crisis is the regulation made by the Ministry of Labour of a certified debt to the social security institutions by five months, i.e. until 31-5-2020 in accordance with Article 39, but also the possibility offered by the same article to the debtors who had previously entered into a previous arrangement of 4611/2019 and who have lost it, as they can now be reinstated in the settlement of debts to the ECAI. It shall be extended by Article 41 until 31 December 2020 the deadline within which all outstanding health obligations of the social security institutions, such as pharmacies, pharmacies and other contracted private health service providers, are cleared and paid by the ECA. Finally, we protect with Article 10 the debts of health providers due to clawback, which had actually led them to despair in previous years, with the possibility of paying up to a hundred and twenty instalments. The second axis that moves the bill is to deal with the consequences of the refugee - immigration. The first thing we do here is protect our borders. It is well known that the government's policy on refugee immigration, which we have announced for months, and I do not want to repeat it. It is necessary, therefore, to complement this policy, and this is what we are doing with the provision of Article 17 and the recommendation to the EL. eight hundred fixed-term border guards, with money to be made available from the European Internal Security Fund. I cannot comment on two of the points in the opposition position. The first point comes from the rapporteur from Officerial Response, who said about border guards that it is good to take them, 'but I understand - he says - on land, I do not understand what they can help at sea'. It makes sense that you cannot understand, Mr Colleague, because you must first understand that there are sea borders! If you understand that there are sea borders, then you may be able to understand why they need border guards for the sea as well. The second point comes from the JRC's rapporteur, who said: 'Why should we do in the pre-repeal centres for fixed-term contracts and not make permanent recruitments?' That's what to say now. In other words, although in the pre-experienced centres, which are supposed to be, we hope, will not be permanent, we are recruiting permanently, what to say, I leave it to be judged. Permanent recruitment in the pre-experimental centers! We give financial incentives, with Articles 8 and 9, to doctors and all health professionals, who are employed or are going to be employed in refugee reception and identification centres. The third axis in the bill is the continuation of the operation of critical sectors of the state, as I said at the beginning of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the gaps in human resources exist in many areas, such as health, education and local government. We have a specific plan, and already the Minister of Interior has announced a specific recruitment schedule in these critical areas, in order to ensure the public interest, namely the uninterrupted functioning of hospitals and other health institutions, for example. In this context, it is necessary to extend the short-term or annual extensions to bodies of the Ministry of Health for feeding, catering and storage to allow the time to prepare the new contracts to be signed. The same principle of the protection of the public interest, through the uninterrupted operation of the State, is followed by the provisions providing for an extension of five-year service to firefighters, seasonal firefighters and the possibility of seconding staff to such an important, as demonstrated by the General Secretariat for Civil Protection.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Comrade, you only have a minute tolerance. Let's say, because it's all about us, that we're not gonna get over in any case a minute more than that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u7	The fourth and final axis of the bill is the implementation of concrete reforms, which will benefit citizens. That is where the regulations are integrated, such as, for example, the strengthening of the Labour Inspectorate with vehicles and financial incentives, so that it can carry out its control role more easily in enterprises, for the benefit of workers. I remember here the complaints made by Officer Tsipras and by Mr Tsipras personally about the alleged weakening of the APRC. And what do we really have with this bill? Further strengthen the staff and staff at their work. Reforms are also made by the Ministry of Interior, so that mobility does not work against our islands and mountainous regions and also by the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure. I spoke above about changes in the operation of the Civil Aviation Service, in Articles 30 and 31, but there are also provisions that help to implement the new airport in Heraklion, Crete, in Article 29, but also in Article 33, so that the competition for the supply of urban buses in Athens and Thessaloniki can proceed quickly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u8	Colleague, I understand that, but you're in Article 33, and we can't make it by 60.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u9	No, I'm just finishing up, Mr. President. I would remind you that it is a contest by the previous government, annulled by the Judicial Appeals Authority. I do not, I think, need to add any more to how beneficial it will be for the citizens of Athens and Thessaloniki to strengthen the fleet of urban buses. Finally, because the expedited Ministry of Health is the Ministry of Health, let me finish the speeches made with a major change introduced by the Minister responsible. It is the provision of Article 14, which allows for amounts entered in the approved annual budgets of the ERC hospitals for their supply with materials and services and exceeds the amount necessary for that purpose, to be able, by decision of the commander of the relevant OSH, to carry over to other hospitals within the same Health Area, which need it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u10	Mr. Comrade, you've been over ten minutes. Unfortunately, this cannot continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, the rapporteurs are all three speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u12	Please, you've reached ten minutes. Please, Mr. Lightla, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear from the above that the New Democracy Government is carrying out its work, despite the difficulties and the suffocating dates it has to face. We are defending our country, protecting the citizens who really need it. We are motivating labour and production, and we are moving forward with the necessary changes in the functioning of the state. We are voting in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, at least there is tolerance for the rapporteurs. It can't go like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u15	Mr Lambroulis, however, do you know that if this goes on - and I give you eleven, and twelve, and thirteen minutes - at the end you will all have the reverse reaction and say 'when will we be done?' You're already yelling about time, then yelling because we're gonna be late. Mr. Michaelides from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, to make this clear, time is very little. At least for the speakers, I would ask you to rethink this and we will not raise any such issue you are saying beforehand that we may raise it. For the bill, which the government is introducing today, I would first like to point out that there are indeed provisions which would justify urgency. We have said so in committee too. But there are also the provisions which no one urgently has to deal with. It is, therefore, problematic that you enter it in this process, which condensates all the processing facilities in both the committees and the plenary. I am going to go through the issues that we should definitely highlight. It is first - first of all, the reinstatement of competence - to us is of flagrant importance, this point, negatively, of responsibility for the organisation of medical education, conferences and all relevant events, by the Central Board of Health at the EEO. Apart from the fact that it was a practice that for years had proved to be creating issues and cultivating a climate of pheasy in all of this so-called'medical education' cycle, for us, it is particularly important that it weakens a competence, which we had provided with a comprehensive framework to support this possibility on the part of the Central Board of Health, highlights a general policy of depreciation of the National Health Council and the premise of the National Health Council and please very clearly what you intend to do, what you are planning with this body. We feel that this tactic of weakening powers has directly put against the organization's very essence and course. With regard to the recruitment of doctors to the PREC, I think it creates a problematic framework. We have also been shown to the committee on issues which, in our opinion, are incomplete in terms of this initiative. And, of course, it should also be noted that doctors' crisis councils, as you set up them, and the abolition of the possibility of doctors being able to choose between more hospitals in the same geographical area. It is a problematic provision, which I think you should see. As for the rest outside the responsibility of the Ministry of Health, we should note the following. First of all, for the border guards - and we have said so in committee - it is assumed - that the appropriate minister's assurances yesterday that these border guards, who will be recruited, have a specific task and will be exclusively involved in these tasks, did not specify exactly what the role is and exactly what these people will do. Border security, yes, but what do you mean? So what? Will structures of the Port Corps be framed? This is a completely blurred landscape in which you are recruiting. We also pointed out the question of excluding officials from forestry services from the secondment of officials provided for in the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. We think it will weaken this service. Also, for Enterprise Greece, the repeal of competition 4K of 2019, I would like to point out that this is also a problematic provision. For the Ministry of Commerce, I would like to point out here that we have serious objections to this issue. We think the legislative framework is elasticating and it seems that the recent tragic events in Saronicos have not taught anything about the government and that it is moving towards a flexible and 'uncertain' system of heavy fuel safety and transport. At Work, we will highlight the drastic reduction in staffing contracts for a competition that had already been launched through ASP and the positions of three hundred and ninety-three in three hundred seventeen. I think the government's intentions on this matter are indicative. We see problems with mobility that mutual transfers are not being facilitated, since the percentage, as far as the source entity is concerned, amounts to 50% to 65%. In some cases, this will also prove to be a ban on this initiative. Also, for the Eye a comment. Prolong the work. You accused the previous government of inactivating this part and not doing the right thing, and now you are trying with extensions and new compositions to legal persons to overcome this delay. As far as the first home protection is concerned, it is of course a good thing that we are extending for the hundred and twenty instalments, but we are very concerned - and we have put it in committee yesterday - after this extension of what comes. Furthermore, a major issue on which I think the government should take a clear position is the concession of its "WHITE" factory by the National Medicines Agency to the Ministry of Finance, which in itself would not create any serious issues. However, there is a'shock' there, which we are pointing at and pointing to as a very serious political issue, the possibility of this subject being given to legal persons and private law in return for or without consideration. I have the feeling that some people are "closing an eye" to the government on this particular subject. Finally, for the environment, I would like to point out that a reference made to environmental inspectors is, I think, absolutely in favour of legislation. General environmental inspectors do not exist. There are specific categories of inspectors from the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. In general, this draft law contains provisions which are extremely problematic. Our commitment to the committee was that we will be kept in plenary. We are also awaiting the positions of the relevant ministers here in Parliament, but first of all we believe that it raises very serious issues, which in our limited time as rapporteurs I have tried to highlight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr Michaelides, for keeping time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-eight students and students and three educational attendants from the 4th Primary School of Livadeas. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Pulas has the floor now from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law of the Ministry of Health has come surprisingly to discuss with express procedures under the urgency of the matter. This is a multi-project - 'bug' which does not in any article involve the urgency and emergency regulation. Once again, your Government has misused this parliamentary tool by undermining political dialogue, either from insecurity, because it does not know how to be chosen, either by arrogance, because it rests in its local laurels, or even because your communication staff has convinced you that in this way you are supposedly showing the citizens a firm rulership. Unfortunately, all you can do is weaken democratic dialogue and create a bad precedent that you will certainly find in front of you in the future. Beyond the misuse of parliamentary institutions and the deterioration of Parliament, the debate on the sixty-six articles of your bill cannot hide the reality, namely that your famous plan to restore the country to normality does not exist. To date, you have not unfolded your programme in any area of government policy. Of the many promises to develop and reform you have confined yourself to a pedestrian, unthinkable, management of the many problems left by the SYRIZA government unresolved. Move into the spirit of clipping, fragmenting and hasty arrangements, without government planning. Behind them is the creation from the back door of a "strategic day", settlements, retiring retired people to active action, prolonging contracts in breach of the law of Peponies and recruitment exceptionally of the AACC, and in general a situation is in place that comes very quickly from the past. Is there any money? The good news for the government is that the opposition, due to its recent government past, which was deplored by the people in the elections, has no stature to express a satisfactory and powerful opposition. Your effort to vote with the least possible reactions to a multitude of settlement bill cannot hide that your unique compass is "see and do. For example, you are making rough arrangements in primary health care, without planning, even though it is the weak link in the health sector, mainly because of the underfunding chosen from the years of the memorandum, you have not yet unfolded your plan on how to organise it. On the contrary, with the harsh policy that you are implementing today, you are following exactly the choices of SYRIZA with small corrections. Not even a word about completing the support system of primary health care in the standards of countries that already implement it! You also see the wage support of workers at the refugee and migrant care centres and the reception and documentation centres, and you do nothing about the organisation, coordination and control of an unreasonable and dangerous situation in these structures. Close the eyes to the insufficient provision of medical services to refugees - migrants with incomplete means, to the burden of local hospitals, to the deterioration of the quality of services for the local population, to the lack of organisation, to control, to record the medical services in these structures and to despair from the unknown feasibility of NGOs. And you think that with wage benefits you will redeem the silence and patience of their workers who suffer from this timeless government indifference and embarrassment? In the same way you are dealing with the serious issue of medical sessions. This year a disproportionately large number of medical companies claim for conferences, which are not evaluated, which are distributed unequivocally and transparently by pharmaceutical companies to carry out the conferences. This is how we substitute for the continuing medical training to be provided to all doctors at all times. As we have repeatedly told you, the big public health problem is sub-financing and you seem to be continuing with it. Efforts are being made by taking over the surpluses of hospitals and transferring them to those that present financial and accounting gaps, i.e. instead of rewarding and upgraded hospitals with good administration, you are punishing them to temporarily block funding gaps in public hospitals. What, then, is the assessment of the governors? Throughout your legislation, there are scattered provisions that indirectly circumvent the single wage with various pretexts. So instead of creating two-speed civil servants, why don't you review the Single Payroll Act, so that you can fairly and proportionately bring back some of the loss of revenue for all civil servants in the years of the memorandum? For the time being, you are constantly introducing exceptions for good and yours. In this context of service you also make micro-regulations in mobility. On the one hand, you are making integration more difficult by increasing the number of jobs in the sector in the institution of origin from 50% to 65%, and on the other you are introducing new exceptions. Nor do local government agencies, however, leave complaints, continuing a series of patches to the skeleton "CLITHEN". And by setting up the category of unpaid anti-democrats, you create an institutional bait for artificial consents, the redemption of votes and the extermination of opposition formations in self-government. At the same time, close the eye to the unpaid mayors for unfair and abusive exploitation of their office. Finally, the extension of the protection of the first residence until 30 July provides only a temporary solution to the problem of the overcompensation of natural and legal persons. The current status of protection of first residence - inspired by SYRIZA - is, until now, a fascinating failure, with just six hundred ninety applications for transfer to banks, only twenty-six accepted regulation proposals and only thirteen citizens have been approved for state grant. It is clear that the retreat of the SYRIZA to the banks was a great social mistake that you must not continue too. The Greek society needs a piece of legislation on the boldness and scope of Law 3869/2010. Any other option on your part, including maintaining SYRIZA's failed law, will be a political and moral defeat. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, today the Greek Parliament has lacked a substantial and constructive debate on the provisions of the draft legislation - 'bowl', which you are bringing to the vote under the conditions of parliamentary suffocation. For the reasons I mentioned above, the Change Movement is voting against this bill in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr. Birds for the time. It's all about time. Here, Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, the bill is indeed an urgent one. In addition to the form of urgency, in a number of different articles - possibly against groups of ministries - it also has another objective, in our view, of restricting the possibility of the parties, the Members of Parliament, to place them sufficiently in the respective timeframe that they should have in this bill. This draft law may, however, have urgent arrangements, as the government says, but in the context of what policy? A deep-seated anti-grassrooted policy which has been carried out in succession over recent years by all governments, New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA, again New Democracy, which is the same policy, which creates and gives rise to urgent arrangements, but, above all, continues to break the lives and rights of workers of the people's strata. It is precisely in this policy that the current unacceptable, dangerous situation with degraded and expensive, for example, health services, has reached the unprecedented state of the people and workers in public hospitals. Because the enormous shortages in staff in public hospitals are not going to be addressed by modernising the boards of the crisis, for example Article 3 and the fair crisis, which in fact relate to very few recruitments and, at the same time, to 'fair' - in introductory form - rejection of a number of candidates for entry into public hospitals. Since they have successfully graduated and acquired the expertise, they have been qualified. Really, the thousands of vacancies in hospitals - seven thousand plus two thousand, which will be added in the next period due to retirement - will be covered? Therefore, instead of permanentising all workers in the fields of feeding, keeping, cleaning, focusing, rather than abolishing flexible and temporary employment relationships, you are giving an extension for six months to the existing contracts, which we take into account when it comes to continuing the work of the workers themselves, but that is not certain, since it will depend on the application of the operators to the ADP. The new fixedterm contracts do not mean that they guarantee existing workers. Or, for example, with Article 5, does the urgent issues of primary health care solve, where the situation is tragic and the services are nonexistent? What is the government doing now? It introduces the criterion of productivity and its association with the compensation of doctors and especially those in local health establishments, preparing the ground for generalisation of the measure in public health establishments. However, in addition to the above, on the basis of the maximum number of population laid down by law, such as per pediatrician a thousand five hundred children, it is certain that this corresponds in practice to a minimum part of the provision of primary health care services and, in particular, to those relating to prevention, which is the main task of primary health care. In Article 8 concerning recruitment to the EGE, and such an organisation should be sufficiently staffed with permanent staff in order to address current and exceptional needs, the arrangements proposed by the emergencies are distinguished and provision should be made for the recruitment by a fixed period of health contracts, which will be compensated by the EGE budget rather than additional state funding. It is precisely this policy that removes from the EGE much of the effectiveness and opportunities it must have, when the staff who will temporarily work will have a problem in education, in preparation, but also after the extraordinary event, any experience gained will not continue for the body as well as for the health workers themselves. The same situation exists with the extension of the working time of fixed-term workers in the pre-repeal detention centres for foreign workers. We too, Mr Fotella, are not here - of course, we are claiming everything, services to immigrants, refugees, recruitment of permanent staff of all the specialities for the needs they need to meet, but we are not talking about the existence of pre-refugee centres, we are talking about the existence of open centres. And we call on Mr Fotella to read the positions of the JRC and not to distort them. We say that workers will continue, even for three months when the extension is given, so that the already unacceptable health situation of refugees and immigrants is not further exacerbated. In no case, however, is there any mention of strengthening public units and primary health care to meet the increased needs of both the local population throughout the year and the issues arising from the arrival of refugees and migrants. For example, will refugees be supplied with a health card without any restrictions? Or will children's needs be met with vaccinations in pediatric services with psychologists and others? And, of course, only as a challenge can the provision of Article 48, which gives the right to families of children with physical, mental and spiritual disabilities to care for their own responsibility, choice or financing as an assistant for the child. Thus, instead of ensuring the needs of these children, the State hires staff for this right of families, it throws the ball at the families responsible for an extra cost. This right, however, will be able to be exercised by those who have a high income, and the majority of the rest of the families anyway will not be able to satisfy that need, since they simply do not have to pay. With regard to the arrangements of the Ministry of Civil Protection, there is another step towards further militarisation of civil protection with greater involvement of uniforms than the Armed Forces and the Security Body. It attempts to exploit retired dissidents in the New Democracy who are unjustified in terms of their evolution, ignoring provocatively thousands of young scientists and graduates of all bodies with qualifications, such as postgraduate and doctoral studies, in order to satisfy a number of their hardliness of hardcore fans, naturally tested in the implementation of anti-population policies. And, by the way, we want to condemn the repression, the brutal provocative violence and terrorism that has been taking place all this time. The government seeks to terrorise, intimidate the people, so that its anti-linguistic policy can pass on to young people in particular, so that it accepts everything without a sign of resistance and claim. Once again, and from this step, we must not dare the government to regulate and ban demonstrations. As far as the regulation of Article 17 on the recruitment of border guards is concerned, I would like to say that here it does not aim to better manage the refugee on the islands, for example, which are indeed facing a huge burden, but only to repress the issue and not to implement humanitarian law. They will be the human guardians of the closed press centres, the prisons, which the government creates, and not the mechanism required for structures that will enable all procedures to be identified and accelerated. With regard to Articles 20 and 21 referred to at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it is clear that the hypocrisy of the Government for the famous ‘brain drain’, after extending the working time beyond the thirty-five years and abolishing sixty-two PP and TTE jobs that have been announced by the AACC for the ‘Greek Investment Company and Foreign Trade SA’ on the grounds that this has changed in nature. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speech time of the F Vice-President of the Parliament is ringing.]] With regard to Article 23 on identities, this is in fact a new particularly serious and dangerous step in the systeming and generalising of the citizens' file, with the aim of controlling and manipulating their lives, working, while in this way state, and not only, domestic and Euro-Union services will be able to collect, store, transfer and exploit information about our movements, transactions and all kinds of traffic. As far as Article 35 is concerned, we agree that there should be an extension of contracts by 30-6-2020, that is to say, to ensure the continuity of the operation of the welfare centres. Our place? The permanentisation of existing workers and the appointments necessary for the effective operation of these centres. With regard to Article 36, an extension is provided for for the new OAED establishment plan by a further three months to complete its reform and its revision, a revision that is time-consuming and a selection of employers. This is implemented by governments to meet their needs for flexible and cheap labour by changing the purpose of establishing the OAED. Thus, only 10% of the thousands of unemployed are subsidised with a modest short-term allowance and, on the other hand, a fatal billion is paid to employers with the argument of creating new jobs that in practice recycle unemployment. Article 39 provides for an extension until 31 May 2020 of the settlement deadline, confirming the inability to integrate a significant part of self-employed in the regulation of instalments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Colleague, you've been ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u22	The Communist Party has tabled a proposal, covering the vast majority of the people's classes from the debts created by the policies pursued over time. In accordance with Article 41, the delay in payment by the EEAS shall continue and the extension to pharmacies, doctors and insured persons shall be granted. As far as the insured are concerned, we of course consider the delay in the payment of expenditure to be unacceptable and demand that they be paid on a priority basis. I now come to the articles - and I shall end, Mr President, but there are many articles - concerning the Ministry of the Interior. There are limitations on the possibility of transferring officials to another body after increasing to 65% by 50% the rate of job coverage of the branch of origin of municipal officials, and the mayor's assent is required. This is a regulation which suggests that they will not cover empty organic posts with recruitment of permanent staff. At the same time, it is possible for an institution to block the departure of an official, since if it does not want to let him go, it will not confirm that the conditions are met. It also incorporates the transfer to a higher category in the mobility system by placing restrictions on the evolution of employees in the institution serving and restoring the unacceptable provision of Law 4440/2016 on the government of SYRIZA that had been abolished and by maintaining the unacceptable conditions of Article 74 of Law 4590/2019 for the transfers of officials of indefinite duration.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Colleague, you need to finish this, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u24	Under Article 54, land and water shall be given to business interests by providing facilities on the basis of outstanding cases for concessions of the right to use hayaloo, beach and others. With Article 55 on recruitment in ODA instead of permanent recruitment of necessary staff, we have applied the PPC model.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Colleague, you've reached twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u26	Yes, Mr President, I will be done in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u27	So we're going to thirteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u28	Under the provision of Article 57, the plot of the former "WHOI" is declassified and through EOF is allocated to the Ministry of Development to create a park of innovation and entrepreneurship. The question here is that, although this plot is not suitable for building courts in Piraeus, but its translocation remains necessary by the inappropriate and dangerous today's building. However, its exploitation could work for the benefit of the area, i.e. the land, for the benefit of the inhabitants of the region as a green, culture and recreational area. Finally, Mr President, from this step on the way to tomorrow's stop of the work of hospital doctors and to mobilize them to the Anglia of Zappeion, that is, by the side...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u30	I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u31	You've reached thirteen minutes! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u32	Please, Mr. President. I don't understand. Why this pressure on the rapporteurs and special speakers?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u33	But you've reached thirteen minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u34	I mean, mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u35	All right, Mr. President. Let the speaker continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u36	The procedure wasn't decided on by me. Please, Mr. Janakopoulos. It was decided by a majority. Don't do that!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u37	Mr President, I would be done. You obviously don't want to hear what I just started saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u38	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u39	We therefore want, on the occasion of this step, to express our support for the work of the hospital doctors and for their movement to the Anglo-Hungary for the conclusion of the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association for Public and Private Partnerships, by calling on the workers to express their solidarity and with the hospital doctors to express their opposition, on the one hand, to policy that extends trade and privatise health through public structures, while at the same time claiming the universal right to a high level of modern and absolutely free health services by abolishing all business activities in health and medicine, for massive recruitment of permanent doctors, nurses and other personnel of all categories and with substantial increases in wages and human hours. We denounce the leadership of the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association, which, as a rabbit, offers valuable services not only to the government, in order to advance public-private partnerships more rapidly, but at the same time operates as a dealer on behalf of the great business interests, dressing with a scientific cloak the reactionary changes and devouring the PPPs, subjecting the scientific exercise of medicine to the service of profit, cuts for the health of the people. An undeniable witness to the nightmare scenery that will prevail is Britain's most famous national system. These are proposals that go beyond the interests of the vast majority of hospital doctors and the people. As far as the vote is concerned, because we have told the committee that we have reservations, we are voting 'the present'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lambroulis arrived at fifteen minutes and fifteen seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u41	It's the normality of the fifteen minutes we're entitled to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u42	A majority procedure, as you know, has been decided at the conference.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u43	We are indebted to normality, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u44	All colleagues want to speak in a year. For example, SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr Michaelides, spoke eight and a half minutes. The rapporteur of the Change Movement spoke seven minutes and forty seconds. I would ask Mrs Athanasios to speak now and I ask her to be there in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u46	I'm not allowed to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u47	Don't you mind?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u48	Then, Mr. Lightla. Mrs Athanasios, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again called upon to take part in a meeting in which the government majority vote on a 'yes' preamble, without taking into account the objections of opposition. But first, let us inform the Greek people of what we have in front of us. In front of us we have a string of amendments, a masterpiece of Greek legislative practice! Well done, gentlemen of the government! In fact, we have not only a number of amendments to earlier legislation but also amendments to legislation that have still not been dried, such as the EAFRD. However, let us see what the main ministers have said. The proposals of the Ministry of Health's draft law address a number of topics relating both to the integration of doctors of scientists and dentists into the ESS, as well as to issues relating to the compensation of family doctors, the EGE and others. Article 5 defines monthly allowances for doctors of the family. And as you confess in the explanatory statement - because of the malfunctioning in the institutions today and in order not to leave those who joined - you pay them wages. But that is not the case, Mr Secretary of State for Health. In Article 6, you extend the validity of the contracts of employees in detention centres for foreign nationals. Again, we are raising state expenditures for foreigners who, although going forward, no one is leaving and the NGO dance is holding well. And we come to Article 8 and the newly established EGE, the bill of which did not last for two months, ladies and gentlemen of the government. And what were you doing here among others? You clarify the professions in the context of the EGE's extraordinary recruitment for interpreters, as you say, since in its original form the law referred to the professions of the medical and other health professionals and in this bill you said to name them precisely so that there are no misinterpretations or to register in such a way as to include other professions not belonging to the medical profession but in related fields. In the end, you say: 'and in any other sector of staff'. In other words, provision is made for psychologists and social workers in structures, while they do not exist in our schools. You say that you are doing so for reasons of wage equilibrium and then, essentially, instructions. Gentlemen of the Ministry of Health, who is the bell gladly ringing for? You refer to professions such as 'field coordinator'. What kind of profession is this, Mr President? And let's say I understand what he's dealing with. But a professional team to get into a draft law - how much more law - it's not. And what is it? An administrative hire window, of course. But what actually gives me a very good impression is your reference to 'intercultural interpreters'. I knew about translators, I knew about interpreters. The term 'intercultural mediators of interpreters' does not understand it. These “same -, ” Minister, are widely used lately. In paragraph 4 of that Article, reference is made to the cancellation of recruitment in the EGE - staff redundancies in the EGE - following a decision of the APS and following a complaint against the ranking table, and it is stated that ‘the redundant will receive his paid earnings by the date of his dismissal’. If, in other words, the objection is made to a question concerning the worker himself, we will pay him, while on his behalf he has misled, say, the authorities and the agency to be recruited? In Article 7, care shall be taken to pay the medical staff’s newspapers at the General Hospital of Thera in excess of the maximum on-call limit. You're doing right. It is not only the doctors of Thera who are entitled to receive their newspapers on the increased needs for services due to tourism in the summer months. Medical staff across Greece, due to enormous shortages, exaggerate the provision of services in order to meet increased needs. Lemnos: With a stable population of seventeen thousand inhabitants it has an anesthesiologist, a surgeon, a pathologist, no tumor and no 30 days are paid for. And on the occasion of this, what about the reintroduction of the ESS doctors to the pre-reduction of 2012 levels and on this basis the implementation of the new salary, as decided by the Council of State? You are defending everything unrealistic and you are giving money for the structures of poachers, as shown in Article 9, almost double the doctors of the ESS, and the pens of public health, our doctors are ignoring them. Article 12 concerns the post of retired persons. Is it a photography? Are you attempting by this provision to place retired ‘local’ pensioners because the existing institutional framework does not cover them because of retirement? Are there no scientists with countless qualifications and competences available to offer these positions? Article 14. We read that in hospitals where there will be a surplus beyond what is necessary for their operation, it will be possible to transfer it by decision of the Director of the Ministry of Health to other hospitals in need of aid. Why? Does the Ministry reward these administrations and the specific officials for saving resources? Shouldn't hospitals themselves be able to direct these sums in order to improve facilities, to train the officials themselves, even - why not? - the staff bonus reward? The households and the surplus in hospitals should also serve as an example for other institutions by assessing, in any case, the contribution of those who contributed to these positive results. In Article 15, the Minister for Civil Protection introduces the possibility of being transferred to the General Secretariat for Civil Protection, inter alia, and officials specifically from the Port Authority and the Armed Forces. Ladies and gentlemen, the demilitarisation of the National Intelligence Service has once been attempted. Today, the needs - I hope for the good of our nation - qualify for the reverse. In Article 17 we read from the explanatory statement that the refugee - immigration - is a complex, major and unresolved issue to which the relevant Ministry is called upon to provide solutions through the strengthening of its ranks with eight hundred young border guards for more effective control of our country's external borders, in the explanatory statement, Minister for Civil Protection. Do you know anything about the internal borders in our country or anything about the free movement of Greeks across the territory? And since these new border guards will defend the border, what do you announce to us, Lords of Government? That you're gonna repulse the poachers behind where they come from? Because if that is the case, we can applaud you standing up, which at last harmonized you with the common sense of protection of our country that we have long been as Greek Solution. But if the poachers will not be repelled, then perhaps these new border guards who will also be carrying the ethnic mark will not be guardians of the border but a receptionist. Just so we know what we're talking about. For Article 34, we're not even talking about it. We disagree from the outset on grounds of position and regardless of the person. In Article 41, provision is made for a new delay in the liquidation and payment of late obligations in pharmacies, doctors and diagnostic centres. But certainly this prolonged delay, because "the fund is minus" will cause new problems for professionals and eventually new suffering for citizens and patients. Article 48 concerns the registration of primary nursery, childcare and nursery posts for children suffering from physical, mental and mental illnesses or disabilities, as well as the possibility of providing support for the child and a special assistant for the family. This regulation is right, but in my opinion it is not enough and in its implementation it will cause more problems. The following questions are born: Who will be allowed in order? What will be the maximum number of children and escorts per class in these cases? And, of course, the family will be charged with the expenses of the assistant attendant, which is very sad and uncomfortable anyway. At the initiative of the state, suitable centres, special schools, special structures, should be set up for children to serve all with specialist staff, which already exists with many parchments and substantial work should be produced, instead of imposing once again on their families who are already bleeding mentally and economically. Article 23, electronic identities. We are opposed to the citizens' fresco. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law - a broom - regulates as the remaining amended issues of the year appear, although you never know what else will come to change by the end of the year. It appears to be urgent on the occasion of the refugee and poaching centres, but it is being introduced and everything else that goes ahead. They are regulated, the truth is, in the right direction, a number of issues with regard to the medical profession, while some are neither in the right direction nor in the right context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Fotella, did you want the floor on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u51	What I would like to say is that under the Rules of Procedure, in the event of an urgent bill at the beginning of the sitting, the President is proposing and this House accepts speaking time. You have proposed and none of us has accepted what you have proposed. So you could probably review the time you have said and not the whole House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Fotella, we didn't just talk about time. In addition, we put three speakers from each party and decided that this House today, a moment ago, you decided on the additional three speakers. It's a process that everyone knows about. In fact, almost all parties have brought urgent bills. I have the honour to announce to the House that from the top Western theories they are attending the meeting, after having participated in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, nineteen students and students and three attendants of teachers from the Third Arsaceo Municipal School of Psychics. I also have the honour to inform the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after having been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" Hall twenty-seven students and students and four teachers attending the 2nd Haidari Municipal School. We welcome you all! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Fotini Bakadima has the floor since Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss a bill introduced by the Ministry of Health with the urgency of the matter, without having had an in-depth debate and - most importantly - without having been consulted. Unfortunately, once again, the government is destroying the principles of good legislature, which it very often invokes, and it brings a multi-brush plan which includes articles that accumulate responsibilities from fifteen different ministries. At first reading, we sincerely wonder why it is being introduced in such a hurry as an urgent procedure, since it contains only a few provisions which would justify such a practice. In fact, at first glance, it can be said that it contains necessary provisions, which had already been announced, such as extensions to protect the first residence and incorporation of the debts into the insurance funds in the hundreds of twenty instalments, but also many other blurred or "photographic" targets. Now that we have a brief review of the articles, let us begin with those which are the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. In accordance with Article 53, an extension of up to 30 April 2020 is granted to enable an interested party to exploit the framework for the protection of first residence, a positive move, although with a very short duration, which, unfortunately, seems to be communication. Why could it not be extended for one year or more? Under the provisions of the following article, the possibility of regulating pending works on a sanctuary and beach, both public and private, on the basis of Law 2971/2001, which are deemed necessary because of erosion or afforestation and which had remained outside the previous regulation with Law 4607/2019. We would like to see such a framework being ensured and developed, strictly and necessary, so that only the highly necessary projects, which will not be charged or contaminated by the seas, our beaches and the seabeds, can be included. The next article outlines the recruitment process with fixed-term contracts in the ODA, with the verification of the legality of the contract notice and the ex post validation of final recruitment lists by the AACC. The Ministry of Interior, now, seeks to enrich the new mobility cycle of officials, with provisions already put in place for consultation and with the applications, which have already been opened, for officials wishing to be transferred or seconded and with the end date on 17 December. The changes that the Ministry of Interior incorporates in this bill are two. Firstly, it increases the covered seating cap which one operator must have in order to allow one of its employees to move to another service. Thus, they are protected by further subscribing to the possibility of a ‘go wave’ but are limited by the number of officials who will have the right to move. Secondly, many successors of the 3K/2018 ASA are given the opportunity to enter the city's rewarding services, mainly cleanliness and mutual transfers. The other provisions of the Ministry of Interior concern local government. A grant of up to EUR 40 million to pay out obligations arising from final judicial decisions, while at the same time, on the basis of a decision of their Economic Committee, the TAs will be able to open an account with banking institutions. The deadline within which municipal children and nurseries should fully comply with the requirements of the new operating regulation is also extended until the end of June 2020. Now we're going to the articles concerning the Ministry of Health. It is currently regulated to subject individual health providers to the one hundred twenty-dollar scheme for their debts to the EEAS, due to compulsory discounts - rebate - and returns, clawback. In addition, the competence of organising medical meetings is restored to the EEO instead of the ERC. Now, under the terms of this, which relate to matters of responsibility of the Ministry of Labour, a new extension of up to 31 May 2020 is given to join the regulation of the hundred and twenty instalments of debt to insurance funds, while at the same time establishing an audit compensation for the auditors of the APRC, ranging from 30 to 300 euros a month, without being included in their regular wages and without any insurance detention. We also have an extension for one year of the liquidation and payment of the outstanding health obligations of the social security institutions by the ECA, while at the same time extending the duration of the workers' contracts in the welfare centres until the positions are paid through successful tenders through ASP. The main provision of the Ministry of Health is that of the declassification of the land, which was defined as an area for the building of the judiciary of Piraeus, which now passes through EOF to the Greek State for forty-nine years, with the aim of creating an innovation centre, a model park for research and technology. As a Member of the 2nd Piraeus, I cannot help asking myself and not ask for a reply to two questions concerning this change. The first is where the judiciary of Piraeus will finally be built. We all know that his condition is extremely bad. And secondly, what is the purpose of this transfer? If it was going to change use, why don't we do something different? Why don't we give the space to the residents, who could use it as a recreational space, as a park of their own? I chose to close with the articles concerning the Ministry of Civil Protection. First of all, in Article 16 we have the establishment of a responsibility allowance "to the commander and to the regional civil protection coordinators", which asks us, as it seems to be quite a photographic provision, since according to what has been stated in the bill, "The allowance (...) is paid, even if these posts are appointed as a public pensioner". We cannot remember that a retired lieutenant and former chief of firefighting has already been appointed. In addition, Article 15 allows the General Secretariat of Civil Protection to be seconded to officials and staff from general government bodies, but also from the Port and the Armed Forces, while not being given the same opportunity to officials, who could significantly help civil protection. For the purposes of Article 17, frankly, I could speak for several hours, but I will try to be as brief as possible. On the grounds of the need to deal with the refugee flows, the recruitment of eight hundred short-term border guards, which will be a new category within the Greek Police Corps and which will be able to be used to guard the borders, but also to be placed in pre-experienced centres, but there is no reference to the bill to mobilise recruitment, to the education they receive and to the type of services they will eventually be called upon to fulfil. For example, since they will be placed in PRECH, how will these border guards not belong to the staff of the ELPH, who, according to some time ago, will not be able to conduct asylum interviews? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll need a minute more, Mr. President. If we look at the recruitment criteria for border guards, as described on the website of the Hellenic Police, the border guards must be Greek citizens, who will not exceed the eighth year of their age, with some of the recruitment criteria being the general degree of high school dismissal, knowledge of a foreign language and fulfilment of military obligations. Should we not, for this particular and so neuroalgic and specific category, set additional criteria? Should there not be a full description of the tasks of this new category in the bill, which we are discussing or the only goal of the government is to establish the police rule and the refugee question? Ladies and gentlemen, the articles of the bill are many different ministries. We should therefore all have had the time to work on them better. As MERA25, we will vote against in principle, precisely because it is a set of provisions, which temporarily solve most problems, but which supports the articles which contain positive provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u54	Thank you to Mrs Bakadima from Mera25 for her time. The floor has been asked by the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food for Article 52 if I am not mistaken. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to support Rule 52 of the bill which we are discussing: 'Agreements on fisheries'. According to the additional control measures - I am referring to paragraph 1 - adopted by our country for fisheries of species of hovering, the vessels concerned should, according to n.e.48/2018, have two devices installed, the VMS device for satellite tracking the location of the area, but also the period they fish, and the ERS device that is the electronic fishing logbook for the submission of the production data they fish. Since the cost of purchasing and placing these devices is high, the coverage of this installation was predicted by the Operational Fisheries and Maritime Programme, namely Measure 6.6.1. However, the previous government has never taken into account the call for this measure, so that fishermen do not obtain these devices, while there are appropriations available - funds and it has been forced to extend the law that it has now voted on for this one year's obligation under Article 78 of Law 4582/2018. However, during this extension given by the previous government, it has not again taken into account the notice of the measure in question, so that fishermen may not, once again, respond. For these reasons, our Government is forced to extend another year, that is to say until 22 May 2020, which ends the fishing season, committing to proclaiming this Measure 6.6.1., in order to financially support the fishermen, to make them legitimate and, in addition, to exploiting the 2014-2020 EAFRD appropriations and to provide the relevant absorptions, which are valuable. After 22 May, therefore, a fishing licence shall be issued to those vessels only if they are established in those vessels. As far as the budgetary burden is concerned, the provision is budgetaryly neutral, I did not cause any expenditure. Immediately, I would point out that this measure will come out. I'm going to paragraph 2. Law 4597/2019, adopted in February 2019, in accordance with the Control Regulation and Action Plan agreed to respect it, provided that the authorisations of fishing vessels referred to in Article 5 of the Royal Decree of 1966 will be renewed only if they have submitted all fishing logbooks from 1-1-2018 to 30-9-2019. Although the action plan, to which I referred, referred mainly to vessels with a length of less than 10 metres, which numbered thirteen thousand, the previous government extended the arrangements for two other categories of vessels, for vessels from 10 to 12 metres, to three hundred vessels as a whole and to vessels of over 12 metres, six hundred vessels, but without guaranteeing the possibilities for monitoring compliance with the obligations laid down by the Act. They have legislated something that they knew in practice that it cannot be implemented until 31/12-2019, because in order to ensure control, ladies and gentlemen, the Information Society Programme of EUR 7.5 million, which among other things would control electronics vessels and over 12 measures and 10 to 12 measures, in a reasonable period of time. It is worth mentioning that the Obligation Act was passed in February 2019 and the necessary programming agreement with the Information Society was signed one week before the elections. In view of this delay in time and the objective weakness of control, I mention the elements of August, only fifteen days for the two hundred fifty trawlers were eight and a half thousand pages excel. We do not make any discounts on the part of the action plan, but at the same time we do not want to blame any fishermen, because to someone who has fulfilled his obligations, we cannot deprive him of the renewal of his licence, so the right to work, because there is an objective lack of control, caused by the previous leadership. We are therefore giving an extension of up to 10-4-20 horizontally, for all vessels, for authorisations to be completed up to 31-12-2019. In the case of vessels less than 10 metres, this extension shall apply provided that they have declared monthly production sheets up to 15 March 2019. As far as fishermen are concerned, over ten metres of boats, we are suspending two years, up to 30-9-2021, to comply with production requirements, in order to have the control tool, i.e. the applications of the Information Society, an application that creates the advantage of automated, continuous, electronic control. And this provision is budgetaryly neutral. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u56	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty students and students and two educational attendants from the Buliagmeni Municipal School. We welcome you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Christos Kelles of New Democracy has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, with this draft law, our Government is dealing with a number of very urgent issues with a strong social dimension. And I'm starting with health issues. First of all, we are dealing with a matter that has been drawn from the past. The first article of the bill provides an extension of the assessment and classification procedures for doctors and dentists in place of dental practitioners' posts up to 31-1-2020 in order not to leave their positions and the health system. At the same time, doctors' evaluation and selection procedures are improved and accelerated. On the one hand, the crisis and selection boards of ERC doctors are defined as the participation of doctors only of the same specificity and, on the other, the rationalisation of the submission of applications for Crisis and Positions is promoted. Particularly important is the safeguarding of electronic recruitment procedures, via an electronic platform, as well as the regulation on monthly compensation for family doctors and the problem of the non-integrated development of the network both in urban centres and in the region. Furthermore, it is promoted to adjust the debts of health providers from rebate and clawback. Specifically, it is given to doctors, diagnostic centers, clinics, etc. their right to join a repayment arrangement of a hundred and twenty instalments of the amount of automatic return - clawback - of 2019. Incidentally, Minister - I do not see Mr Kontozamani - on the issue of clawback for laboratories, clinics, rehabilitation centres, at last, something must be done, because the situation is going to close. Furthermore, the Ministry of Health takes measures to extend cleaning, catering and feeding contracts for the Central Office of the Ministry of Health and the supervised bodies up to 30-6-2020. It also extends up to 1-3-2020 the employment of the staff already serving in pre-regions detention centres for foreigners – PREKEKA – whose contracts expire on 31 December 2019. In the context of our immigration policy and the preservation of our borders, which has been intensified and rigorous since the day we took over the country's governance, we are on the way to the recruitment of eight hundred border guards. This staff are hired to the Greek Police, whose task will be to strengthen in particular the islands of the Eastern Aegean, which are directly faced with the immigration crisis, but also towards Turkey's shores. At the same time, the mandate of five-year obligation fire extinguishers shall be extended until 31 December 2020 in order to ensure that the fire protection mechanism of the country operates throughout the year, while allowing for the recruitment of seasonal fire extinguishers during the anti-nuclear period. In particular, seasonal firefighters, which are included in the successful tables, as established from 2003 until today, are re-entered for 2020, with the possibility of further recruitment for the years 2021, 2022 and 2023. The same provision is, of course, also made for seasonal firefighters, who were first hired in 2019, with the possibility of re-intake for 2021, 2022 and 2023. Furthermore, the provisions of the Ministries of Finance and Labour are very strong. First of all, the protection framework for first residence until 30 April 2020 is extended. By that time, the government's financial staff will have completed the preparation of a holistic law regulating debts of natural and legal persons in order to enable more borrowers to guarantee their inclusion in this protective framework and to obtain a regulation of the loan for the purpose of protecting their principal residence. At the same time, provision is made for the amendment of the date of issue of an IPA notice to cover organic positions in social welfare institutions, as well as the possibility of renewal of ancillary staff contracts until 30 June 2020 in order to avoid malfunctioning in these social structures. In addition, the final date of submission of an application for the definitive application for the settlement of debts to the single social security institution shall be extended to a hundred and twenty instalments up to 31 May 2020, as well as the clearing and payment of the outstanding health obligations of the institutions of the ECAF, which were incorporated into the EEAS until 31 December 2020. In addition to the above, this draft law includes a number of other provisions which strengthen the work of the relevant ministries and the government as a whole with a view to the care, protection and safety of citizens, which is why we are voting in favour of it. We are looking forward to the very important legislative initiatives, which come from tomorrow to Friday in plenary, in relation to the vote of the expatriates abroad, the treatment of red loans and the National Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr Kelles, for keeping time. There is a mutual change. Mr. Boubas from the Greek Solution will speak to Mr. Spirtzis and Mr. Spirtzis respectively will speak to Mr. Boubas later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again a bill comes in, which is express and we do not have the opportunity to study it in depth, to highlight some vulnerabilities. After the Final State, gentlemen of the New Democracy, with vulnerable points regarding local self-government, such as the Quality of Life Commission, the incompatibility that was abolished in the first degree, while being maintained in the second degree, the ombudsman you really hit legal science and ombudsman can be of any specialty, while circumventing the Istanbul Treaty of 2011, comes still a handshake. We are in a hurry, with many articles, to make some corrections and a "cut off" one. I see great importance in giving employee allowances, which are the most infamous hot spot of illegal immigrants and illegal immigrants, because it is illegal in our country, while, on the contrary, some other allowances are being abolished. I take this opportunity to say that the Deputy Minister, Mr Stefanis, because I have served in Special Forces and Paratroopers, and I know what is happening with the so-called risk allowance, has incorporated it into wages and thus lost by Special Forces a month between 300 and 400 euros. So here are the 14 million by Mr Stephane for the poachers. I say this for the great amount of study in which benefits are granted to nurses and workers within hot spots. However, the benefits of special powers - the risk allowance - were incorporated into wages, resulting in insurance losses, but also in losing money a month from EUR 300 to EUR 400. About on-calls: What can hospitals say? Do you know how many doctors in many hospitals have been paid for on-calls for several months? All right with some hospitals like Thera. But there are problems in Rhodes, there are problems in many hospitals such as the Regional Unit of Serres, the Hospital of Serres, which are not renewed doctors' contracts and remain headless in too many specialities, such as the oncologist, whose contract will end in a few 24 hours and apparently will not be renewed immediately so that the four thousand cancer patients can be served. Let's go a little bit to the hospital surpluses. The hospitals that will have - it says - surpluses in accordance with Article 14 will be transferred to hospitals, which will have a negative sign. Why should a reasoned management policy, a household, a reasoned administration move to another hospital with a deficit? Ladies and gentlemen, do you know of any hospitals that have no problems with their medical supplies? You see, they rusted some consumables because there were supplies and we bought some consumables for hospitals fifty times above their price than in Cyprus. So we don't remember that. Let's go to the border guards a little. We are not cleared by the government about the recruitment time. So it'll be renewed on an annual basis? Are they recruitment via OAED, a 12-month period, so that they don't get any rights even for one day's work longer? Where will the border guards be geographically? They're going to guard passages? Is he going to be on paths? Will it be in some secret pods of poachers, mostly in Evros, Rhodope, Xanthi, and in some other areas? There are no clarifications. Let's go to the firefighters, because every year you see what happens. Don't go to old times, where one hundred thousand acres of forest, lost in the Attica basin, only eleven thousand were found to be resurrected. What about the firemen, ladies and gentlemen? This blockage is continuing and this wrong way of hiring is being wrong. Will they be hired in July and will their contract be terminated on Christmas Day, rather than hired in May, so that they can complete their term of office, due to climate change and increased temperature at the end of October, which is also reasonable? You haven't made that clear. There are too many articles and time is running. About a specific company fuel station: What are you, gentlemen, doing with the oil duty-free red oil that thrives on the smuggling of fuel? Did you take some measures? All right with the fuel stations. Some contracts are being renewed. Control must also be carried out in underground tanks. Let's go a little too on the subject of the Commission 'Greece 2021'. You're talking about tax exemption. We are firmly opposed to this committee. How will he manage, what cultural events will he do? Because, you know, we're celebrating the two hundred years of a state that's bleeding today, with everything that's going on in our neighborhood. We need to see who's in charge. Mrs. Angelopoulou, who is responsible for all the downfall from the 2004 Olympic Games, where were we charged? I shall close, Mr President, with Rule 57 on first residence. Tell the Greek people clearly if you will protect the tile and the burn of the Greek citizens. It is incomprehensible today that someone who finds a seasonal job on time, leaves the regulation and is called upon to reopen legal procedures, at multiple costs, to reset it. You must take this into account if you want to pursue a social policy for people in order to protect their first residence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr. Boomba, for keeping time. Mrs Lykoulis has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, every miracle lasts, unfortunately, three days. So it has kept the miracle of good legislation, from the New Democracy Government since the start of the debate - to remember - of the bill on voting for the emigrants last Wednesday. It was a bill, which may be inappropriate and limited capacity, however, largely governed by the principles of Law 4048/2012 on principles, procedures and instruments of good legislature. After that, the chaos! We do not, of course, forget, that the multi-brand plan under discussion is not only reversed by this principle, but it comes as a multi-branded plan - rag, including short-term operating and wage-related provisions of fourteen - please - ministries, within a total of seventeen, with the unfamiliar procedure of urgency. Some usefulness or even argument political could have the period of the memorandum due to exceptional economic circumstances. But now, apart from a bad legacy, apart from anachronism, what else can it mean? Is that really the regularity that you so often talk to us about? You cannot give as a government any convincing explanation. You contradict yourself. Of course, this phenomenon, which we often see in your legislation, especially in recent months, means that you have just taken the spoon and move on the path of the previous government. I would like to make a few comments, which I consider to be important. A crucial issue of the fragmentary provisions, which are introduced, in relation to the refugee - immigration, is what directly concerns my prefecture, the Larissa prefecture. It's a county of the hinterland, for which, unfortunately, there was no consultation on how many we'll get, how we'll get them, where we'll put them. It currently accepts the largest burden, a large part of the refugee populations, moving and coming from our islands. The draft law contains four provisions concerning the management of the refugee. Cuvet (PSE). - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the President-in-Office of the Council on his excellent report. There is no plan, there is no complete proposal to manage the matter. In other words, we still have a firm sense of being able to deal with what happens to us day-to-day issues. ‘Day by day’ is the system you implement. Winter now begins with forty thousand people on the islands of the first line of the East Aegean. The constant fear of always being proclaimed that the Morians will be extended to the mainland, although you are supposed to abolish them. That's, on the back all the way back to 2016. It's awkward truth. But you must tackle it actively, integratedly and visionally. For the latter, you really don't want to hear either yourself what you want to say about whether there's a vision on you. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the provisions of the Ministry of the Interior, Articles 42 to 51, which are my sector, the area of self-government. You take urgent matters, which are time-consuming to local government. Really, has your explanatory statement been read by Minister? I say this very sincerely, because it is a monument of ambiguity and blackness. I will keep this in my self-government record so that I can have it and remember it. What do you change and what do you fill in? Do you know what you're doing? You refer to provisions in which there has been an infringement of the public consultation procedure. You display provisions and articles from nowhere. You come, for example, to Article 45, which provides for the grant of the municipalities, and you are refilling with a budget. You have already given money - about a month ago - you are now giving 40 000 000 euros of money, which has already been formally owned by self-government and you have never recorded the needs. I mean, blind date! So, what are you doing? One further grant is given, whether or not it arrives or doesn't get out of business. Do you have any specific data on the amount of each category of liabilities before you legislate? Is this serious work done in Parliament and in the services? Are you speaking and saying mapping and putting these in the explanatory statements? In paragraph 3, I should like to mention that you are extending the three-fifth quota to additional committees and bodies. Is this the way with artificial majorities to command self-government? What do you think self-government is? Self-government is a visionary policy area. You can't do it like that, by order, do it. You can barely create data and institutions. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I would like to point out once again that this is the fourth time that your Government has amended Article 59. It has already been amended by Law 4623, Law 4625, Law 4635/2019. Mercy! In fact, will self-government survive at the end along with this pluralism that you have introduced, without giving it any solution, but also any visionary aim? Finally, I would like to make a comment about this sick system which you are doing even more ill or, at best in cases, only aspirins. You're bringing in the institution of unpaid anti-democratics. This is probably the star dust, which you put on something that is, unfortunately, too bad for it to happen in the field of self-government. And you're coming to do this just to make it a political transaction tool. At some point, and the holiday season passes, and the star dust goes away. Then it's the big question what's left of it. Will you really see it? Better the question is: Can you see it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u62	Thank you. Mr Mamulakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now being called upon to place ourselves in a bill which is a stirring-up of provisions of scattered ministries. I oppose the temptation to ask myself about how you legislate with the principles of sound legislation at European level or the government's announcements in voting on this draft law for the final state. I also oppose the temptation to ask the rapporteur of the bill on the part of the Coupling to respond to the relevance of the provisions on police identity, EEAY, the beaches, the Civil Aviation Service. I shall therefore try to focus on my position on the articles of responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, namely, Articles 53, 54 and 55. Under the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, in this Chamber today, we have only one issue to discuss, and that is no other than what is going to happen with the first residence, gentlemen of the Couple. We are supposed to vote today to extend the status of first residence to the middle of next year. Obviously, in principle, we agree on an extension. Obviously, like everyone in this Chamber, we understand that the elephant inside the room is the project "HERAKLIS" and the choices of the current government regarding the management of red loans. So what do we know so far? We know that the government is celebrating the approval of the project by the European institutions. We know that Mr Stagioras announced in mid-November that in two weeks' time the implementing law of the "HRAKLIS" project will be introduced into Parliament. We know that the central banker sees the plan as positive, but inadequate, as it is expected to cover 40% of this portfolio of non-performing loans and the remainder requires consolidation of solvency rules. In other words, disprove me if that is not the case, this means hardening the attitude of credit institutions towards borrowers who are really in difficulty to repay. Ladies and gentlemen, we must also say that we know that all the tax relief on real estate, which you passed from the House last week, was not intended at all, according to Mr Staikouras, but at the strengthening of the banks by increasing the value of the guarantees they have in their hands. We know that the main core of this bill is the securitisation of the non-performing loans of the systemic banks with the guarantee, of course, of the Greek State, no doubt, so that the transaction for the banks is profitable and attractive to private investors. We know that mediation between banks and private investors will make a 'individual management of the securitisation', i.e. a bad bank, and the question, obviously, is what part of the bank's portfolio will be and what will be the real policy of this institution. Finally, we know that the main question of how to guarantee the Greek public loans remains. The security pillow created by the previous government was not a peculiarity of its financial staff. It was, in essence, a guarantee of the Greek State's creditworthiness and therefore a prerequisite for the improvement of public finances, for which you are celebrating today. The spreads of Greek bonds and borrowing interest rates are not reduced due to "the subconscious messages emitting the features of Mr. Mitsotakis' face", but because of the cash buffer created by the previous government. Perhaps this sitting is therefore an appropriate opportunity to place the government on this issue. Perhaps this sitting will be a really appropriate occasion to place, beyond the competent Minister, Mr Staikora, who is absent from the Chamber, in relation to the issues of small and medium-sized enterprises in this project. As from at least the announcements so far, the Greek State’s guarantee is only in force subject to the sale of part of the Greek bank’s portfolio, with a lower collateral on the market. You keep talking about how easy the private sector will be from your plan, but we all know that the devil is hiding in details. If a condition for the activation of this project is the report of all Greek small and medium-sized enterprises on the pressures of the red loan management companies, without any rule, then you will certainly find us in front of you. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's plan to manage the real economic and social problem of red loans was multidimensional. Only part of the solution we have put forward was to facilitate banking institutions. Our priorities have always been the protection of the first home for the highly indebted households, which have suffered the consequences of the economic crisis, but also the mediation between the Greek banks and the Greek small and medium-sized enterprises and companies, so that we can build those tools to bring about the inability or unwillingness of the banks to make extensive loan arrangements, in a way that is of course favourable to both parties. For these reasons, our plan included the revision of Katseli Law, the out-of-court settlement mechanism, the modernisation of the bankruptcy code, the law on the protection of first residence and much more. It also included from the first day and the prospect of creating a bad bank which, after successive refusals by lenders, has led to a common understanding of the need to create an asset protection scheme, which is, moreover, the core of the project we are discussing today. What made the equation much more difficult for the previous government was its unwillingness to give in to unbearable pressures to abolish the protection of the first home. The current provision may extend the protection regime, but unfortunately the enhanced surveilling report of November informs us of the agreement between the Government and the European Commission on the complete abolition of the first residence. So what's the matter with both of you? I think the Greek people are asking for an answer. Finally, let me turn to one, first and foremost, a secondary issue, which has begun to be extremely worrying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Colleague, you've reached seven minutes. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u65	Yes, Mr. President. Under Article 55, the Government has for the fourth time bypassed the procedures and forecasts of the AACC within five months. It gives full authority to the Board of Directors of the EAW to define the terms and criteria, to publish and run the recruitment contests at the National Defence Industry, while holding for AACC only the final validation of the results of the tender and this is within suffocating time margins. It is obvious that the provision will be a field of rhetorical intakes, which is why we are asking for it to be withdrawn immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u66	Mr Panagis Capatos has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, since the beginning of her term of office, the government has made numerous legislative interventions, as promised by the election. It is worth stressing that the objectives for the draft laws that must have been introduced into the House by the end of the year have been identified by the Prime Minister from the beginning. However, due to the problems received by the Government and the exceptional needs that have arisen on a number of issues, a number of regulations in critical areas in the operation of the State are necessary. In the health field, the provisions relating to this are the most critical interventions we are enacting today. They are issues relating to social policy and affect Greek citizens as much as any other aspect of public intervention. We are legislating today because we want the state to be particularly effective in the sensitive health sector. We seek the recruitment of medical, nursing and laboratory staff to be made more rapid and absolutely practicable. We move on to concrete interventions that reduce bureaucracy and maintain the uptake process through ADP integer, and above all we expect the health structures of our prefecture, such as the General Hospital of Kefalonia and the Manzavinate Hospital, to serve the needs of the citizens. In this context, the creation of the electronic candidacy platform reduces the recruitment time from eighteen to just five months and strengthens the functioning of the public healthcare sector. Let us now move on to the interventions concerning the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which are of particular interest. I am referring to Articles 20 and 21 of the draft law, which relate, respectively, to the strengthening of the Special Legal Service and the extroversion to international economic relations. As regards the Special Legal Service, it includes as competence the Ministry's opinion and representation on judicial and legal matters abroad, the management of European and international law, transnational disputes with parties in Greece, as well as issues arising from international treaties, conventions and agreements. By extending the stay for a two-year period of service we respond to an urgent matter from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which relates, on the one hand, to the fact that the last recruitment of officials from the Special Legal Service took place in 2006, while pensions have not ceased, and, on the other, to the need to maintain a documented foreign policy in a period of outstanding geopolitical issues. Regarding the second area of intervention and the extroversion to international economic relations, we have repeatedly pointed out the priority of our programme in this area. The attraction of direct investment, the promotion of Greek exports and the upgrading of our country's international economic position are central directions, from which we do not have the luxury to deviate. The proposed articles on matters of competence of the Ministry of Civil Protection deal with important issues, particularly in the critical area of civil protection, whose role is now central to the relationship between a state and a citizen. Article 15 permits the secondment of personnel from the Port Parliament and the Armed Forces to the General Secretariat for Civil Protection to meet needs in specific areas. In view of the increased responsibilities to prevent and deal with natural disasters and the complex nature of the problems, qualified personnel from other bodies may offer valuable know-how. The logic of Article 15 is also set out in Article 16, which provides wage incentives for governors and regional civil protection coordinators to remain in the service for a longer period. The operational experience and know-how acquired by these individuals over time can be key factors for the effectiveness of civil protection services. Accordingly, in accordance with Articles 18 and 19, an effort shall be made to exploit the operational experience of seasonal fire extinguishers, by extending the tables of successful and opposing persons by the end of 2020, and by providing for the possibility of re-intake of seasonal fire extinguishers for the years 2021, 2022 and 2023. And these arrangements will help to ensure the smooth functioning of the Fire Corps and the Civil Protection Mechanism. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President, please. Another important regulation concerns a provision of competence of the Ministry of Finance. An amendment to Article 72 of Law 4605/2019 extends until 30 April 2020 the existing scheme for the protection of first residence, which would expire at the end of December. Already simplifying the procedure has helped more our fellow citizens to regulate their debts and extending the first home protection framework will give an opportunity to even more people to join the mechanism. Ladies and gentlemen, the provisions to which I have referred show the government's determination to correct the functions of the public sector and to address the state's urgent needs. Unfortunately, on individual issues we are called upon to heal the consequences of the unfavourable choices of the previous government and I think it is very important to vote in favour of today's draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u68	Thank you. Mr Claus Gregoriadis, Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u69	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, especially Mr Minister for Civil Protection, I give up! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I give up, I surrender, I surrender, I surrender, I surrender, I surrender, I surrender, I surrender! Ladies and gentlemen, I have even been a dissident. Assuming I was a troublemaker. Even if I had done completely unnecessarily, even in some unlawful, illegal acts. Honestly I ask you all: How much more do you think I should surrender so that men of MATs, i.e. men of the Order Restoration Units, finally stop beating me? Do you know how much that man I saw on Friday night at the Polytechnic, in the Excavations Square, was always handed over to those who arrested him? Do you know how much it took in this video projected - and it's done the world's round, it's already become viral - by zougla.gr? He almost had to surrender half to one more minute! He has been, since the beginning of this film, clearly unarmed and surrendered. The first seconds we see him beating after the man of the MAT has found him, who arrests him. Nearly immediately a second uniform and that man of MATs enters the plan, and even though he already finds him seated on the ground, apparently unarmed and beaten by a colleague, he starts kicking him in his belly, genitals and breasts, while the first one always hits him everywhere with the globe. Eventually he is raised, while he monologues "I surrender, I surrender, calmly, I surrender" and begin to lead him together both towards the cage. But, for his bad luck, they meet a second conceived, which other men of the MATs have already stripped half of them during their arrest and lead him to the cage. One of the two escorts of the first arrested then, completely unnecessarily, strays, falls with power over the second detained, promoting and using as a siege the body and the head of the first, who nevertheless continues to repeat monotonously "resign, calmly, calmly, I surrender". The video about the mental peace of all of us, thankfully, stops there somewhere. I hope they finally got to the cage, but I don't want to imagine what kind of inhumane behavior they'd expect the two detainees in there. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you directly: is this, in your opinion, in no way a democracy? If this is the democracy our new government dreams of, enjoy it! We - let you know - will continue to claim another, some real democracy! Ladies and gentlemen, three thoughts on the draft law that we are now called upon to vote on. Think first. It slowly freezes a profound anti-parliamentary practice, which we have known for years now, as it has been initiated with the memorials and not just will live and reign as long as this goes on, but at some point I am very afraid that it will be understood by all of us here as a normality. This must not be allowed to happen, because this will undoubtedly be a retreat of our democracy - democracy is a conquest of all of us - and, of course, it will also be a lasting and indiscriminate proof, but also a reminder of the gradual loss of our national sovereignty. Minimum articles in this bill - there are, but there are few - just justify the urgency procedure, a procedure that removes from their citizens and their representatives the right to participate in the consultation and from us MPs the possibility of thorough and substantial study, but where this is necessary to decipher the provisions that are being voted on. Withdrawal of these rights clearly represents a decline in our democracy. Think two. This multi-brush plan, in commonly referred to, is contradictory and also in the immediate future is at risk of being extremely deceptive. Opposite is why, on the one hand, it actually contains provisions and useful ones, such as extensions for the protection of first home or the inclusion in a hundred twenty instalments of debts - for which they have no objection - to the insurance funds I mean - and, on the other hand, it also includes many blurring provisions or, on the other hand, even in certain cases and photographic targets. One such example is Article 16, which stipulates that the allowance for the status of National Civil Protection Commander and regional civil protection coordinators will be paid even if these posts are appointed public pensioners. As the National Civil Protection Commander has already been appointed sixty-year-old retired Lt-Gen and former Chief of Firefighting Mr Vassilis Papageorgiou, who is of course a public retired, this provision could also be described as photographic. Think third. "With a crazy dream, a cheating dream." There are provisions in this bill, such as the one concerning the quickest crisis and the position of doctors or the one concerning the monthly compensation of family doctors, which are both necessary and necessary, and I can already say late. Only these provisions, which are good, have a small problem. They demand that, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, money, recruitment and, of course, digitisation, while we all know that this government, as a commitment to austerity and primary surpluses, excludes recruitment, makes it particularly difficult to secure or give up funds. This is, therefore, probably fraudulent arrangements, since the government only expresses intention, which is based, in fact, on the condition that, in the meantime, our economy is against all the facts of global economic science, it is with these monstrous primary surpluses rapidly recovering. In our view, therefore, the government is enacting provisions which are known or should have known that they will not be implemented. It is also deceptive, in a way, to hire eight hundred more border guards, who in the end are very afraid that they will be only prisoners. Border guards, as the word says, are intended to guard border crossings and not people in remote concentration camps and isolated islands. To sum up, we could characterise the draft law to be adopted as an anti-standard, rather than a deceptive one. Ladies and gentlemen, let us finally take this decision at some point that we should be able to legislate everything that is important in the urgent areas of education, health, work, the environment, the economy, the national defence, energy, culture, justice and, above all, development, we should be able to escape from this tragic comedy of the absurd, which is called a memorandum and for which the last two governments of the country assure us that it is over and yet all the citizens of this country feel that it is just beginning. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u70	We thank Mr Gregoriadis and thank him for keeping time. Mr. Kamines has the floor from the Change Movement for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. In the government's programme statements, but also in the run-up to the elections, we had heard too much about proper legislation, which would now prevail in our parliamentary customs. And we see that, "before, you speak three..." on several occasions, the government comes and goes out loud about this promise. Today we have a bill, which is no longer a broom bill, as we call it. I'd dare say it's a soup bill. There are everything, provisions from illegal fishing, medicines, first residence, university institutes, border guards, seasonal firefighters and all that. They shall sign eighteen Ministers. Of the sixty-seven articles, fifty-two relate to matters of remuneration, staffing, recruitment and others. Five months you've been government! Didn't you have time to do all this and come here and tell us it's not just urgent, urgent? This has nothing to do with correct legislature, as is also the case with others that fall below. Look at the staff of the General Secretariat of Civil Protection. First of all, we heard that by the end of the autumn we would have the bill on civil protection, which we are still waiting for. For the time being, what we have seen is creating positions, providing for remuneration and compensation. But an overall plan, while winter's been in good shape, has not been seen. And what do we see? By way of derogation from each provision, secondments. I am going to count in the bills that have so far come to the House how many derogating provisions on the Staff Regulations of Public Administration staff you have brought. And there to sit down and see not only for proper legislation - because these provisions obviously come together and undermine and regular procedures provided for in the Code of Civil Service - but also for the undoubtedness of the public administration. On the one hand, we see you coming and tell us today that these border guards will not be able to move, on the other hand, and on the other hand, we see in Article 15 that those who are primarily responsible for guarding the borders - that is, the Port Authority - can derogate from any provision, without any quota, without any limitation to be seconded to the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] I would like, Minister, when you speak, to respond to a rumour which is currently widely circulating, that these eight hundred border guard positions will automatically mean restricting or abolishing organic positions in the police department of the respective regions. That's something we need to hear. I will once again insist on matters of good legislation and proper implementation in general of legislation in the public administration. I have dealt so much with public administration from too many positions, so that I always insist on these issues, because I believe - and I believe it very strongly - that the issue of the country, its great problem is the state, the state and the way in which public administration operates and public officials are evolving. I would like to say that once again if we look at the provisions on seasonal firefighters, we will see the status of these conventions extended again. This one has to stop once. We must have a fire service, which, like any other normal public service, must be managed by permanent staff, with what this entails in experience, in merit and in know-how, and not in people who are constantly hostages of every government, who are obviously not able to respond in a timely manner to the training required, in order to best carry out their duties, that is to say, to do their job. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u72	Good. We shall proceed as follows: Mr Georgantas will take the floor for five minutes, then Mr Spirtzis will take the floor and then Mr Yiannis Pappas will take the floor. If anyone else wants to speak, let the Bureau know. Here, Mr Georgioda, you have the floor both from your position or as you wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, two articles in this bill refer to the responsibilities of the Ministry of Digital Governance, Articles 22 and 23, and I have to inform the House of the feasibility of these forecasts. In Article 22, we are giving more support to the country's Government Security Directorate. I think it has been understood by the previous law which recommends that this address should now be used as a basis for national security, the factors that we are all monitoring how they are developing globally in the phenomena of government attacks make it imperative that this service, which unfortunately currently only has three staff, with those civil servants from specific agencies who have know-how and scientific training so that they can cope with the increased responsibility required to carry out the purpose of this service. We are therefore describing the selection procedure for the Head of the Civil Security Directorate, which will be permanent civil servants of the public sector by specific services. The selection of stakeholders will be made following a proposal by two Secretary-General and a secretary-General and the final decision by the Minister for Digital Governance. There was a debate on the special responsibility allowance that we predict - there is such a provision, a possibility for the Minister - to be given to the staff of this department. I think that this need is perfectly understandable, as we talk about staff who have to be in 24-hour readiness. And I think it is understandable that this responsibility for the small number of workers who will eventually be employed in this service should not be an obstacle to our decision to give the necessary incentives for the proper management of this service. In the next article there is a specific provision for the new type of identities. Greece, as we all know very well from our foreign travels, is one of the last countries in Europe that actually uses laminated paper. Security issues are being raised, issues that primarily put the holder of the identity card at risk, and on the basis of a European regulation we come to include the information required by the new type of identity that is necessary to enable us to create as best safety conditions as possible and so that this particular identity can be used by anyone else in a fraudulent manner. These two are the interventions which are done and which are of a genuinely urgent nature. In conclusion, with regard to what has been said earlier by my colleagues, I simply have to say that in the efforts made by the government to deal with immigration in every way, which is indeed a very big issue at the moment for the country, the recruitment of eight hundred border guards is also included, as is envisaged and described in an objective way. This recruitment will be carried out through Article 17. Instead of only criticising the government, which is of course welcome when it is well-meaning and with a view to speeding up any procedures in this area, it would be of great interest to see who is going to vote on this article today for the services of those who are called upon to defend our borders. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Christos Spirtzis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have today been called upon to discuss a draft law which is introduced under the urgency procedure, and one would expect, as has been said in the Conference of Presidents, that we will have urgent provisions, provisions of major importance for the governance of the country. Unfortunately, in the few months that New Democracy has been running, we also have to see a few things on the occasion of this draft law. Firstly, the words 'transparency', 'worthiness', 'equal opportunities' which were invoked by election have gone on a transatlantic journey. Secondly, the doctrine is the final party state - something that is confirmed today - and the way is the three-way "communication, communication and communication". There is no substantial intervention or action by the Government but the construction of the well-known party state on the right. So you bring a bill that changes for the sixth or seventh time the law of the state of staff, changes for the sixth or seventh time your attempt to cancel the simple analogue to local government, creating an absolute chaos to both ministries and local government. And to substantiate what I told you just before, namely that the triple master is the "communication, communication, communication", I'm caught by that communication storm of the first days for the plot in Matti, as if it were a feat to empty the plot in Matti and today you're giving us an extension. But today it has filled another plot, that of the House of Navy in the area without permission, with the Municipality of Marathon saying that it was indicated by the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Infrastructure to say it was the fault of the company "MYXAN" that the public participates in the board of directors. And when we talked about it then, which were the first days of your administration, you didn't lift a fly into your sword. Today we see with the company "MYXAN" when it will empty the illegal plot in the Navy's house that has not given permission to be used. But if that were all, I would say 'all right, that's all'. However, there is a number of other topics. You told us in the local government plan that you were being cut off for the rulership of the municipalities. How do you cover it? By putting counter-majorists without any plan, without any study and without any institutional provision or necessity, so that the mayors can continue your own policy with the framework you have set up, a role-making policy, without taking into account the cost for consultants - partners and all the other costs involved in such regulation? And obviously it's not about the rulership of the municipalities, but how you set up specific party mechanisms and how you can denounce local self-government further. Of course, we're going to the big public administration thing. If I remember correctly, whenever the SYRIZA government had planned recruitments via ASP or whenever we had any, any, if you want, an announcement in "GENERAL" even for posters, we had a body of publications for appointments supposedly party. So we're coming to today. With the bill, which is urgent, you are abolishing the notice of the IASC for ENTERPRISE GREECE and providing for special provisions. You are destroying every concept of continuity of administration, the basic principle of the legitimate trust of the commander, as you arbitrarily fly into the basket of our unusable demands of many fellow citizens and enter into the logic of the bazaar, if you like, and the customer's logic. You provide for recruitment of staff to the ODA by way of derogation from any legal procedure. Candidates will only have the possibility to submit objections for legal reasons. You recommend eight hundred border guard positions. We understand the necessity, but we do not have to be put by the Secretary-General in the dilemma. The government must also understand the need for these recruitments and procedures to be carried out through ADPs and transparently. Presidential decree is provided for. It is not enough that the Minister tells us that they will only be transparent. Same as the seasonal firefighters, but also the mobility that you completely take. 50% of you do it, so that there can be no mobility, so that you can see with the law that comes into consultation and with which you change the committees and how you selectively make the crises even for mobility. Mr President, thank you for your tolerance. I'll finish here though I have a lot to say. I think it is a bill that does not honor the New Democracy, the Government and what it has announced. I believe that if we were to bring this bill today, there would really be a revolution by the MPs who were in the previous parliamentary term and who were making the misappropriation, in my view, of their criticism of us. I shall conclude by congratulating the successful New Democracy policy on the managing authorities. It is the one that Mr Hatzidakis had established and had gathered all the management authorities of the Ministry of Economy, which committed the country, which has brought bureaucracy and impediment to the realisation of the projects, and which the New Democracy itself today is extinguishing under the table and slowly so that we do not get it, making the managing authority of digital policy one day, the internal market and see where this ends. It is the definition of manipulation, of rosphette, and the definition of policy that includes only the three-fold "communication, communication, communication". But communication after five months is not enough. You have to rule already. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-eight students and students and two educational attendants from the "International School Of Athens". The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Ioannis Pappas has the floor. Then the State Secretary, Mr. Economou, will take the floor. Then we will continue with two colleagues, Mr Georgios Tsipras and George Mulkiotis. Then I'll ask Mr. Contozamanis if he wants to talk or talk at the end. Here, Mr. Pappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me before I begin my speech on the bill to make a little personal mention. It is a great honour to have the responsibility and awe that I feel as a Member of Parliament addressing from the Step of the House to the members of our National Representation and the Greek citizens who are watching us. At the moment I owe it to the citizens who honoured me and trusted me in their vote to represent them in the Greek Parliament. As you know, I was elected MP in the Dodecanese constituency, in the last part of Greece, where the Greek flag waves proudly within a few miles from Turkey. It is Rhodes, Karpathos, Kassos, Megisti and Ru, the islands which have recently been wrong and arbitrarily integrated into the maps of Turkey. It is the borders of Greece, it is the borders of the European Union, it is the borders of our soul. So the citizens of the Dodecanese, I want to thank this step by step. I want to thank them for their confidence and to assure them that the New Democracy, the country's great patriotic liberal party, guarantees the progress and development of our country. It guarantees the safeguarding of our sovereign rights and our national interests. From the national line and the laws of this place we do not retreat in millimetres. Ladies and gentlemen, I am concerned to hear the criticism of the Opposition on the urgency of the matter. There was a lot of talk in the competent parliamentary committees, a storm of newspapers in the opposition press, you know the old pro-government press that, for your own urgent bills, made so many years of turf. So today we have a reason and reason for the urgent procedure. It's not because we like it. We are trying to provide definitive solutions to years of problems that arouses the Greek economy and the Greek society. The dilemma was clear and simple: Are we going to solve it immediately and drastically or are we going to vain? Is it not a matter of immediate priority, ladies and gentlemen, to extend the protection of first residence until 30 April 2020, which, as we all know, expires on 31 December 2019 and is laid down in Article 54? Do you disagree with that? Do you intend to vote against it? Let me remind you on this point, because you have very short memory and you have proved it many times, that in March 2019 the New Democracy had voted for an amendment to protect the first residence. Aren't you today going to vote on our proposal and prolong it? Is it not a matter of immediate priority to the eight hundred border guards who will be recruited to protect our islands in order to protect the islands of the East Aegean? Do you disagree about that, too? Can't you see the necessity and the emergency? Are you going to vote against it? If it's because of ideological controversy within the SYRIZA, we can give a lightning. It will not be the first time that you have put your ideologies above the interests of the country. Unfortunately for you and thankfully for all the Greek citizens, the sensitive areas of the country must be protected, and that is what we ensure. Is it not, ladies and gentlemen, a matter of immediate priority that the programmes of those working in the pre-retirement centres should be extended? Do you disagree with that? Will you vote against it? Articles 18 and 19 shall also extend until 31 December 2020 the validity of the table for seasonal firefighters of a five-year obligation and the possibility of re-intake until 2023. I remind you - so that we do not forget - that firefighters are the ones that every summer give unequal battle with flames and fires in difficult places and under unfavourable conditions. And that's what you disagree with, ladies and gentlemen of counterpopulation? Is it not important to extend to fixed-term labour contracts in the fields of catering, feeding, cleaning and storage of hospitals? Or is it not important for you to streamline the crisis procedure in the selection of doctors from crisis councils, so that hospitals are not empty from doctors throughout Greece, but especially in the region? Will you vote against that, too? Tell the people who live in the region, especially in my islands, in the Dodecanese, where the clinics are closed, why are there doctors because of the many mistakes and mismanagements you have made in the past? Is it not important to provide an unhealthy and dangerous work allowance for doctors working in pre-repeal centres? Do you disagree with that? Will you vote against it? Isn't your sensitivity enough for doctors to assume? So tell them clearly and do not hide behind your classic rhetoric. Do you disagree about the favourable regulation laid down in the bill on undeclared repayment arrangement in one hundred and twenty instalments of the amount of automatic refund - claw back - for health providers? Or do you disagree with the arrangement providing for a fixed remuneration for the remuneration of family doctors for the period 1 August 2019 to 1 August 2020? Finally, is it not important to extend the extension for five months until 31 May 2020 for the definitive application of the one hundred and twenty instalments to the ECA? If you disagree, tell the free professionals clearly that you disagree and do not want to vote. Let me remind you that in March when the arrangement had come, the New Democracy had voted for it at the time and Mr Petropoulos had accused us of not wanting it. What are you going to do now? This is Rhodes, ladies and gentlemen! I really can't explain your objections with reasonable arguments. I can understand so far why you are opposed to asylum, because you are opposed to the pro-investing environment, even your opposition to the tax evasions of the middle-class, which you yourself admitted and you admit to overtaxing. It's in your ideas. I understand that. What I certainly understand and you can be certain that all Greek citizens understand is that you don't feel conveniently in the chairs of Anti-Population. You've got you, ladies and gentlemen, of SYRIZA, from the chairs of power. You do not feel at all conveniently that the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis said a few elections and does too much after-elections. The Greek economy returns to normality, a word foreign, which is why I did not use it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Pappa, you have to hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u79	Wait a minute, Mr. President. I'm done. For us it is normal to support all Greek citizens. We did so with the reduction of HPAI, with the reduction of tax rates, with the improvement of 20 instalments, we did so with the complete lifting of capital controls. If you have forgotten what the capital controls are, you can tell Mr Varoufakis in the building, because it is your policy, so that we do not forget about it. I should like to inform you that we will continue to do this indiscriminately, because the policies we are implementing are the programme with which the Greek people gave us a strong mandate for the governance of the country. So I invite you to think rationally. I invite you to vote on the bill. Put aside your micro-party logic and put forward the interests of our fellow citizens, the interests of the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u80	As you know, Athens is a little rainy and there is traffic congestion. I will not call after Mr. Economou, but I will not delete Mr. George Tsipras and Mr. George Mulkiotis. They'll be here, so I'll keep them to the end. After Mr. Economou, Mr. Synthrakis and Mr. Logiades will take the floor from Mera25 and we will continue with the Parliamentary Representatives. You will tell me if you want to do so, or if you want to do so in the parliamentary order. When the time comes, we'll get in touch. Mr. Economou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. I would just like to point out that the need to upgrade the General Secretariat for Civil Protection is evident and from all the wings of the House at various intervals has been agreed. Therefore, today, with the arrangements that we have for the General Secretariat of Civil Protection, we are looking forward to a substantial upgrade to enrichment with executives with the necessary experience, with the possibility of being seconded both by the general government, but in particular by the Port Parliament and the Armed Forces. I do not think there is a need for a special explanation as to the importance of making critical positions for the General Secretariat of Civil Protection at least by the representatives of the Port Authority and the Armed Forces, given that it is called upon to do a difficult task, given the given and the impact of climate change and we are all experiencing in recent times. With regard to seasonal firefighters and firefighters five years of obligation at times, the same positions have been expressed by all the wings of this House, their contribution to forest fire-fighting has been accepted over these years and, in essence, I do not think there is any objection from any of Parliament's wards to the extension of the possibility of being recruited by 2023, as we anticipate, and to the regulation of issues relating to seasonal firefighters. But I would particularly like to mention - because there has been a lot of talk - about the recruitment of eight hundred special-time guards. The need especially for the islands, given the explosive dimensions that the issue of illegal entry into our country, is evident. Today in the interior of the country police are being seconded to the islands, at the expense of the state budget, the possibility of providing security services in the hinterland is being reduced, and therefore the need for further assistance and appropriate measures on the islands is obvious. In fact, this regulation ensures funds from the European Union's Security Fund and therefore the national budget is not charged, and the recruitment criteria are strictly objective, are the same for border guards and there is absolutely no suspicion of customer relationship or party recruitment. The "skies" mentioned, to reduce the organic positions of the police services located on the islands, has nothing to do with reality. They are not charged with or reduced by any organic position of the police services deployed on the islands. It is a substantial effort in a broader planning that the government is implementing, both to increase security measures on the islands and to ensure Evros. Very soon this operational planning will yield, we believe, fruit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u82	We continue with our colleague Mr Synergy. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u83	With this multi-brand plan, the government is attempting to go through urgent anti-grass, anti-grass measures, and our special speaker has been mentioned in detail. One of these provisions concerns the amendment of Article 40 of Law 2065/1992 on the basis of which the amounts collected from the charge from departing passengers, the so-called ‘TEA’, the State Airport of Heraklion ‘Nikos Kazantzakis’ and the subsequent new International Airport of Heraklion Crete will go directly to the ‘TERNA - GMR Airport Limited’ consortium. This is a last act of death following the vote in May 2019 from all parties, except the Communist Party of Greece, with a government of SYRIZA, the public interest robbery on the basis of which the Greek State grants to the above private colleges the exclusive right to study, construct, finance, operate, maintain and operate the new International Airports of Heraklion Crete, a project costing more than 500 million euros. On the basis of the concession agreement and the current amendment of Article 40 of Law 2065/1992, all the revenues of the New Democracy Government - hand by SYRIZA and Change Movement - give them "private" to private individuals from the AEA, over 180 million euros, when the consortium enters only 5 million euros of share capital and six years will have been amortized with annual profits of more than 80 million euros. This is an economic and political first-sized scandal, the koruna of class and unjust development for people's strata, paradise for business groups. This is the money of the working people, a project that will ensure huge and certainly profits in the consortium, through the gross government funding, the lending that will come along the path, which will be paid by the taxpayer people, and the free work of hundreds of workers who will be called upon to work as modern slaves with the 'Turkey' of recruitment tracking, with the broken-down working relationships that have been secured both by the former and by the current New Democracy Government. These governments, therefore, give money as simple and easily as possible, and should be directed towards upgrading public airports when so far all these governments have retained them and have not even channelled cents over the years. It's all about capital! You do the same with all the airports. You extended the concession of Athens International Airport "Eleftherios Venizelos" for another twenty years to monopolies, which have taken their strength from the revenues of its operation. Other airports are in decline due to sub-financing, nor do they have basic operating means such as abatement, paper and other operating media. But you have devalued them, such as Sitia Airport, to give them the way for individuals and them. After you joined the country's airports in the course of the march, you handed them over to the monopolistic groups, the property of our people who were built and operated with their sweat. And not only that, but after labor and torture, and after the JRC had requested two and three times to Parliament to grant documents on contracts signed by the SYRIZA Government with the "FRAPORT" for the Fire Corps and the Hellenic Police, we were only answered by the Ministry of Civil Protection which, he says, operates fully transparently, that it will not provide us with them because they are bound by the obligation of confidentiality. Response provocative, effectively dismantling the proclamations of the Governments of the New Democracy and the SYRIZA on transparency. No obligation of confidentiality cannot remove the people's right to have full knowledge of the agreements signed by your anti-grassroots governments and for years mortgage its property on monopolistic groups. The people are therefore charged with everything: the cost of construction and the operation and maintenance of airports, so that the consortium can make unstoppable profits, the big capital. Greek State, Fire, Police, Civil Aviation Service personnel at the service of capital! This is notorious growth, growth for the few, business groups, which brings poverty to the people! Hand - hand all together you are defending a robbery investment at the expense of the overwhelming majority of the people and especially of the region of Heraklion, which is changing the uses of land, displaces farmers violently, destroys and reduces the quality of products produced and has serious consequences for the health and safety of the inhabitants, the cultural heritage of the place. For the JRC, construction, operation, maintenance of airports, ports, transport in general, as well as energy, waste management, education, health. It is the responsibility of the State to ensure flights, to protect human life regardless of cost material, to ensure cheap tickets for the people's family and to fully cover the transport needs of the remote islands and regions. However, these can only be ensured by a popular labour power, which will meet the current popular needs in the context of a popular, state-guaranteed national air transport operator, to which all of the air transport operations will belong: groundhandling, supply services, technical base and flight work, the exclusiveity of domestic lines and their infrastructure as popular property. For all these reasons, therefore, we, as a JRC, denounce this provision which gives the consortium a total of millions, to the construction of an airport in Kastelli, Heraklion, we are voting against and we call on the people to draw its conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u84	Mr. Giorgos Tsipras is here, so, Mr. Loyadis, you'll wait, he'll be ahead. Here, Mr. Tsipras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in this urgent bill many of the provisions follow the spirit of the earlier legislation of the government, namely deregulation, removal of regulatory frameworks and the reliance on a number of issues to Ministers, boards, etc., the abolition of the IAS in practice and Golden Boys. I will start with these before I go to the main issue which, in my opinion, concerns the issue of first residence. The 'Enterprise Greece' with the Presidential Decree of 8 July render it to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and in addition to the problems created by it, which a supervised body supervises the international economic relations services of the country and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, you are now coming and abrogating an APA procedure. I would remind you that the scheme has already been liberalised in terms of wages and therefore, not only the CEO or the president or perhaps the investment manager, but all the others are coming outside the scope of the single wage, which means the possibility for dozens of Golden Boys. And now you're retiring too. Why are you deleting him? Even if we assume that other wages have to be paid, the headed ASA for sixty-three employees why is this being abolished? Secondly, an information system for State aid for PPP projects. We have succeeded in the previous years and have escaped from the pathogenesity of the past not only in PPP projects, but the path of giving the Minister of the Ministry in question where he wanted to go and direct some subsidies or funds from the European Union where he wants to do so and where he does not want to give. On the basis of this new provision, with regard to PPP projects, the Secretary-General may exceptionally not carry out the procedures until they have been completed by the information system and by decision of the PPP itself. Why? What need does it make us have to go beyond the existing institutional framework? Thirdly, the public procurement law can bypass it with regard to the supply of vehicles and family-based means in a number of cases. What need does this do when there is no urgency? Fourthly, as far as ODA is concerned, in an industry with exceptional potential, you are also abolishing the AACC there. They will be able to recruit off-site and freed from the payroll, and from low wages you can hire whoever you want and at the highest levels we have the Golden Boys phenomenon again. Four provisions in the same bill. And lastly, as far as the altar is concerned, which, under our legislation of No4607/2019, we have laid down certain rules to protect the altar, you are coming and emblem, which means that those files that were lodged before our own law can now go with the oldest law. What for? In terms of environmental protection? And I come to the issue of first residence. It is obviously acceptable that an extension is given, but the question is why the extension is being given and what purpose is being given. Will the first residence continue to be protected? Will there continue to be the law of Katseli - Stathaki? Will there be any other law to protect first residence or not? Secondly, are there loose ends, for example those who had previously been regulated by the Katselis Act and are they now in a weakness of payments due to unemployment or because they closed down an enterprise, for example, will they be able to protect themselves from the existing framework? The statements which have been made and what we know will be the exact opposite. You go to a new bankrupt code for fast track bankruptcies and auctions. It is just yesterday's interview with Mr. Mitsotakis, Mr. Patelis in Bloomberg, on the basis of which the remaining 50% of the red loans not covered by HRAKLIS will be solved, he says, under the new bankruptcy code. What exactly does that mean, for those who have residences, for those who have small businesses and go by saying? And I come to the most serious ones, because this is related to the 'ERAKLI' project. Will the pillow be handed out by the HERAKLIS project? Will 12 billion be equivalent to collateral from the pillow? First question. Secondly, as far as guarantees are concerned. A sum of money from newspapers has been agreed with European authorities. We know that of 2.1 billion against guarantees. Has the necessary checks been carried out with regard to the granting of guarantees, or is there a number of loans granted in a way that does not have to be guaranteed by the State? Will the Greek people pay 2.1 billion, because the banks did not do their job properly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Georgios Logiadis, MP since Mera25. Whenever I remember the party so they can understand those who listen, but they can't see.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Yes, from Mera25, the Front of European Realistic Disobedience. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, we are once again called upon to discuss another draft law in the urgent procedure. I shall therefore begin by saying that it is now enough with this well-established process of post-track legislation, which is, in fact, of benefit to all of us in our Parliament. In the draft legislation now, the Members of Mera25 have detailedly referred to its provisions. Personally, I will deal with the issue of Heraklion airport, as a member of Heraklion, but also as a Greek. I am referring to Rule 29. Article 29 hits the concession agreement from 21-2-2019 for the design, construction, financing, operation, maintenance and operation of the new international airport of Heraklion Crete and the study, construction and financing of its road connections, including it, related to the collection of fees, modernisation and development of airports. This is a concession for the operation of the airport, from the previous government, to private individuals for thirty-two years. In fact, it provides part of the fees paid by passengers to the private investor, and indeed retroactively from 21-2-2019, without specifying either the amount or the ratio. This direct financing of private manufacturers is a challenge for the Heraklionians and all Greek citizens. This new airport in Kastelli will cost both domestic flights and flights from abroad. I am a tourist businessman and I know the great problems that will arise from this. All airports normally and the ports of the country are unacceptable to operate by private speculators, because in our view they are national property. I would like to stress here that the local society in Kastelli Heraklion is contrary to the project and has conducted many procedures for the cancellation of the project. The front of the European Realist Disobedience 25 is opposed to this project and to all the pharaonic works that this project entails, and we are sick in local society. They are pharanonic, because basically beyond the roads, they must also be supplied with unforeseen fuels. How will fuel be carried for many miles to the new airport, if it happens, when it happens? The means of fixed track transport, such as train or tram or measure, which we have given to "Eleftherios Venizelos" have not been foreseen in Heraklion and this is also a major problem. These are issues which have not been fully clarified and which are an inhibiting factor for both the local society, I believe, both for Greece and for our tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u88	The Deputy Minister will now take the floor, Mr. Frangoyannis, for five minutes. Mr. Contozamani, are you ready for the legislature?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u89	In five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u90	So after Mr. Frangoyannis. And then we won't go to ministers all the time. We will start with the parliamentary representatives and speak with a parliamentarian and a Minister or State Secretary. And I'm not deleting because they told me he was on his way, Mr. Mulkiotis from the Change Movement. You have the floor, Mr Fragoyannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make two comments on Article 20 and Article 21. In Article 20 we are talking about the Special Legal Service of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which aims to legally support the action of the Ministry in the context of its competences in matters of European and international law. The HSY, as known, delivers and represents the Ministry of Justice and Law Affairs abroad, deals with legal matters of European and international law, transnational disputes with a party to Greece and issues arising from international treaties, conventions and agreements. Bearing in mind that the Special Legal Service of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has an extremely important role - particularly in the current political context with outstanding issues at European and international level with Turkey, Albania, Libya, Egypt and other countries - it is understood that its staff's needs are increased. I would remind you that the organic positions are sixty-nine, the empty forty-six, twenty-three of which are two honorary legal advisers and four administrative officers. Therefore, there are only seventeen members of the service in support of increased service needs. Taking into account the fact that any introduction of any new staff to the HSY has not taken place after 2006, and that pensions have not ceased, the need to regulate the provision to the Minister of the possibility to extend the stay to the service for an additional two-year period of HSY officials who: Firstly, they have completed thirty-five years in the service. Secondly, they have completed the sixty-fifth year of their age. Thirdly, they have not completed the sixty-seventh year of their age. Of course, the differentiation made by the proposed arrangement is to make a decision by the Minister, by exercising the discretion conferred on him by the provision and taking into account the specific service needs, to extend the service until the sixty-seventh year of age to the staff of the HSY, if they have completed cumulatively the sixty-fifth year of the age and the thirty-fifth year of service. With regard to Article 21, the priority of the government programme is to strengthen the country's extroversion through reforms in the field of international economic relations. The extroverted economic development of the country, as we have said in the past, in the crucial foreign policy sector has been strengthened by the transformation of the company "Greek Investment Company and Foreign Trade SA", known as "ENTERPRISE GREECE", into a modern and dynamic corporate structure, as reflected in the provisions of Article 84 of Law 4635/2019, "I invest in Greece and other provisions". Its new operating framework provides structural and operational institutional guarantees and appropriate tools to enable ENTERPRISE GREECE to best support Greek and foreign enterprises, to upgrade the country's international economic position and to promote sustainable development, in line with good practices and international standards. Ελληνική Ελληνική Ελληνική Ελληνική Ελληνική Επιτροπή Ε., ENTERPRISE GREECE is a special case in which the public interest, due to the nature of its completely outdated mission, operates primarily abroad and actively contributes to the upgrading of the investment climate both in international markets and in the real Greek economy. In order to ensure the efficient and uninterrupted functioning of ENTERPRISE GREECE, the establishment of specific provisions, the lifting of restrictions, which do not meet its operational and operational requirements, and the performance of the necessary flexibility has led to its release as a legal person from the general provisions of the public and a wider public sector, while always respecting the applicable provisions of Union law. At this juncture, the provision of a direct link with the private sector to the training of managers with the required competences and the necessary know-how would be appropriate to abolish any other pending competitive procedure for the administration of ENTERPRISE GREECE. Under the proposed provision of Article 21 of the draft law, it is proposed to repeal the notice on recruitment in a order of priority of sixty-two staff with regard to the working of private law with an indefinite duration of university and technological education in the Hellenic Investment Company and External Trade S.A... In view of the fact that the provisional lists of recruitees have not been posted, the abolition of the pending 4K/2019 notice of the AACC is necessary to safeguard the interests of the Greek State, since it no longer meets the firm's needs and serves the service needs of the "Greek Investment Company and External Trade SA", i.e. "ENTERPRISE GREECE". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u92	Thank you. Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution, Mr Hetas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Final State, OTA, "MATTERS", mediation, debt regulation, the Chrysochide Act. We legislated these 15 days ago and they are coming back. In any case, because you forget quickly and because we now live in the era of technology and say what we are saying and what we are writing, I would like to tell you what you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, have said about the SYRIZA emergency when it was running the country until a short time ago. I'm not eating my time with these. I will give two examples. The first example concerns Mr Varvitsiotis. I remember now the immigration bill, which SYRIZA had brought about a year ago, said Mr Varvitsiotis, it is fun to hear: 'The characterisation of urgency is a confession of the highest incapacity'. That's what Mr. Varvitsiotis said. I don't know if this reflects on you in the New Democracy. Mr. Voridis, isn't it reflected? No, I guess not. Reflect on you too. So we've seen your own migratory ability too. I'll see you later. Mr. Vorides will answer whether or not I should stress. I'll see you in a bit. Of course I will also stand on the very active social media Prime Minister, Ms. Mitsotakis, who tweeted on June 30, 2016, on the occasion of an urgent bill: "You have received an urgent bill on "COSCO" to satisfy your party clientele. You are above every limit of unreliability." That's what Mr. Mitsotakis said. I'm filing it in the Minutes. Thank you very much. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] To understand a little what's going on. It is a disgrace that SYRIZA's MPs, too, should be bothered about the urgent bills. It's really embarrassing because they've had the patent since the late night, urgent bills. Our best friend told us our positions in detail. I want to stand on two or three points before going to other topical issues. Our National Health System is slowing down, too - the Ministry of Health - what we intended to do, ladies and gentlemen, and Greek MEPs and Greeks, is to give monthly pay and benefits to doctors, who work in the reception and hospitality centres of illegal immigrants, to put psychologists and social workers on double pay to them who work in centres than to those working in the National Health System. This is the social person. Instead of giving money to improve the mess of our hospitals, you care to give money to those who serve illegal immigrants. Do you know what's going on, Mr. Ministers and ladies and gentlemen, in Thessaloniki when eight days of each month are there just one hospital on duty? There's been a period of eight hours - and we're talking with numbers - in the ER. I'm not saying it. Doctors say so themselves. For an appointment for ophthalmological testing it takes six months to close the appointment and if other six months wait. I am presenting in the Minutes the statements by Mr Keticides, President of the WTO in Thessaloniki. Thank you very much. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Heitas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So these are the urgent things to save the National Health System and not the Rushpheological urgency that you are bringing to the Greek Parliament. Let's go to the Citizen's Protection Department, too. How long we have been shouting that we need to shield our borders, but we must actually shield them, and not by means of press statements: 'Evros does not pass a mosquito'. That is what the New Democracy MPs say on the various television broadcasts where they are hosted. What exactly can these eight hundred short-term border guards do, on what criteria are chosen, what training they have and what exactly commands they have received, we will see it along the way. However, in Evros today, they raised the Turkish flag on Greek islands. In fact, this point is the Twin wall area. Makes it look like they got this because it's a hot passage. That is where illegal immigrants pass and there is constant control over this point both by the army and the police. It's a travesty of illegal immigrants, the Twin Wall Act. I'm showing you the Turkish flag paper. Let's see if the situation changes when the border guards enter. Let's go to the illegal immigrants: The nightmare continues. I'm reading the Mayor's statement. We're talking about facts. We're not airborne. So the mayor says, does not the neighborhood grocery store say: “What else are the people in charge waiting for? If they can't, they can tell us. Otherwise, the municipality will organize its citizens and protect life and property. The situation has reached the unpredictable. We now have an invasion. Every day there are damages in property.’ Now let's go to police, violence and arrests. Mr. Gregoriadis urged us before the police arrested him. Mr. Gregoryade, the police don't arrest any law-abiding citizens. The riots and the illegals are under arrest. There's no reason to arrest you. You are a law-abiding citizen and you come with your bike in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u94	In this House, rather than by name, you should speak to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u95	Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, those who are law-abiding are not at risk from the police. Those who are assholes and go and download windows and burn cars, they must be the police to arrest them. Of course, New Democracy, by copying - and that is good - our programme is making arrests. Law and order, you're just a little confused, because on the one hand you're arresting, on the other hand, "free," he says, "the eleven arrested for Friday's incidents." The next hour, they were released because he says, "We were not the ones, you can't prove that we had anything to do with the disasters." So the assholes keep breaking undisturbed. The only solution - you will tell me is personal data - is to put a camera on the cops' helmets to record contraception at that time, to tell me whether or not the bollock has anything to do with the arrest or has nothing to do with it. And of course, the pain now took SYRIZA - I've said it too many times - about the strict police. Hypocrisy and service of party clientele, that's what I call it. And I don't know, is there, of course, good and bad violence? So, let me understand, is the violence of those students who go down and crash at the universities good? Is that a good violence? So the violence of "Rubicon" is good? Or is violence in the name of "17 November" good and other violence not good? Is there a good and bad violence? Violence is violence, we condemn it wherever it comes from and the riots must be arrested. So cut off, gentlemen of SYRIZA, brain washing on minor balls, because that's where you're looking for votes. And we will never forget from you, when, the Prespes and the repression of yours against unarmed civilians, not hoodmen and motifs, against unarmed, law-abiding Greek citizens. Now we are going to another topic: Greece again, Minister. Now, listen up. Three thousand euros is given by the government for repatriation of scientists from Brain Drain. It's awesome, isn't it? It's the supreme shame! After we kicked them out because you went bankrupt the country, you went after entrepreneurship, we shut down all our businesses, now you want to bring them back by sharing mirrors to natives! Take three grand to get back. Lower taxation, bring investments to open jobs, create a safe framework for start up businesses and see how our Greek birds will return behind themselves, not with three grand. Yesterday from Pella - and this is related - the capital of our ancient Macedonia, Pella, came out of a positive news. This news shows how wrong we are. An eight-year-old child, an eight-year-old Greek pupil, an eight-year-old student, really a mathematical mind - and that makes us proud - his family tells us he will leave for Germany, because there is a special school for minds there. That kid can't stay here. We, of course, as I said before, share mirrors and we give three grand to someone come back to work here for a year and the minds cannot keep Greece, they must leave for Germany. And I'm closing. Three mosques officially, we give the right to three mosques in Kos and Rhodes, on the pretext of carrying out the religious duties of poachers. Three mosques in Kos and Rhodes in Greece, while Erdogan escalates the policy of challenges. So, what's gonna happen? Are we constantly opening mosques to serve illegal immigrants? The New Democracy is moving clearly towards an Islamization of the country. How low is the New Democracy government going to fall? We're opening three mosques right now, in Kos and Rhodes. Ankara speaks of a Turkish minority, do you understand? He is speaking officially of a Turkish minority on the islands, what I mentioned to you. And we're officially opening three mosques today. What can I tell you? Congratulations. However, Mr Voridis - I know that you will take the floor later, and you have addressed me the floor last time - I am nervous about it, I am very anxious about illegal immigration, no matter how much you urge me to be quiet. I'm not at all quiet, unfortunately!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, I would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u97	Why are you asking for a reason?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u98	Because my words have been misinterpreted, Mr President. Thirty seconds I'll talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u99	I'resent him in class and said to'responsible'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u100	No, I'm saying there were words that I didn't say.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u101	Here, you have the floor for a minute, Mr Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u102	I'm telling my friend, Mr. Heta, he obviously understood it wrong. Of course, we all agree that everyone who commits illegal acts should be arrested by the police and the authorities. I only talked about after the arrest and after the man had been occupied by the police and was unarmed. We saw with our eyes, all in this Zougla.gr video being tortured for at least thirty seconds by two police officers, with clubs and boots and kicks and that's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u103	All right, details have been given. Before going on, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, seventy-sixteen students and five teachers from the Molo Fthiotis High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now, I will give Mr Kontozamanis the floor for legislative improvements, which you will not analyse, Mr Kontozamanis, you will mention, to present them to the rapporteurs and the parliamentary representatives. Here, you have the floor. I don't give time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. I'm making legislative improvements to the draft law of the Minister of Health. For the time economy, I give them to the Minutes in order to be distributed and taken into account by the House, because they are enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u105	Thank you very much, too. Short. Now, before the parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece has the floor, Mr. Besiropoulos has the floor. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill, introduced to discuss and vote, deals with urgent issues and gives solutions to distortions that have been created in the past, in many cases re-establishing equality. The Ministry of Finance, which we are debating today, submitted three articles on matters relating to its competence. In particular, these are Articles 53, 54 and 55, to which I shall refer, explaining their philosophy and their aim. As you know, this government has been called upon to deal with an unresolved and pressing problem, namely, the question of protecting the first home. We proceeded to legislative intervention with improved arrangements, which entered into force on 18 October 2019. These improvements include the abolition of certain supporting documents in order to make the process more flexible and to allow more citizens to become part of the framework and regulation for the protection of first residence. Article 53 of the Multilateral Plan gives a four-month extension to the existing framework for the protection of first residence until 30 April 2020. The targeting is double: Firstly, we want to allow as many citizens as possible to submit this request to the electronic platform. Secondly, we want to allow those who have already entered the platform, but have not submitted their request to have the time to do so. Many are the ones who are trying to zero the effort we are making and to despise the regulation for the protection of the first home. They forget, however, that if there were no such regulation, at the moment the protection of first residence would be in the absolute void, since by law passed by the SYRIZA Government, the framework for the protection of first residence would cease on 31 December 2019. Our own effort focuses on speeding up the procedures involved, making them more flexible, making the necessary time to submit as many applications as possible for the protection of the first home. We therefore proceed to the four-month extension for the submission of applications for the protection of first residence, but also for the regulation of loans. It should be pointed out here that, in this context, the regulation of loans with mortgages in the first place includes: First, write off debt in excess of 120% of the commercial value of the house. Secondly, the time limit for repayment of the loan up to twenty-five years. Third, a low interest rate of 2%. And, fourthly, state aid of 20% to 50% for monthly instalments. Article 54 comes in order to resolve the question of pending cases concerning the application of Articles 12 and 14 of Law 2971/2001 ‘aegialou and beach’, before being amended by the provisions of Law 4607/2019, which had been tabled and voted by the previous government. I would remind you that, before the adoption of this law by the previous government, applications had been submitted to the relevant property services, with complete files and supporting documents necessary to grant the right to use a saint, beach, continuous or adjacent marine space or the bottom for the execution of works. The distortion is that the specific cases were not included in the transitional provisions of Article 42 of Law 4607/2019. As a result, the procedure for approving the concession decisions was interrupted, despite the fact that not only the applications had been filed but also complete dossiers. The principle of the rule of law requires that these pending applications be examined in accordance with the provisions in force at the time they were submitted and that the unequal treatment of these citizens is restored. In addition, the proposed regulation aims to strengthen the State's credibility and to create a relationship of trust with the citizen. In particular, these applications are to be handled under the institutional and legal regime under which the relevant applications have been submitted to the Greek State. Finally, Article 55 provides for the recruitment of fixed-term staff to the Greek Defence Industry, by means of ex ante verification of the legality of the notice by the AACC and ex post verification, by validating the final tables again by the AACC. The fact is that transparency is being observed, but at the same time the Greek Defence Industry is also being strengthened with specialized, technical and scientific staff. A staff needed for the development of the company, but also for the implementation of the F16 modernisation and upgrading program, most of which will be carried out in Greece by the Greek Defence Industry, ensuring not only its viability but also new jobs. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I'll need two more minutes, Mr. President, and I'll be done. In fact, the adoption of the relevant agreement on the implementation of the programme is included in a bill tabled by the Ministry of National Defence and will be voted on within the week by the parliament. I close my speech with a position on Article 34 of the bill. The provisions of Article 34 shall lay down arrangements for the functioning of the Committee ‘Greece 2021’. Since Greece 2021 serves a greater public interest and is not financed by public funds, nor is it charged with the public budget, but is solely based on grants and donations of natural and legal persons, it is absolutely essential to be surrounded by all those exemptions, which will give incentives to donors and donors to provide the necessary resources for the completion of this national project. Moreover, Greece 2021 is intended not only to grant and donate money, but also to offer in kind, which must also benefit from the necessary exemptions in order to enable its purpose to be met. Consequently, the proposed regulation provides for the necessary facilities for the implementation of the work of the committee which has, moreover, some of the overall benefits of other important public bodies. They shall be facilities which do not take on board the contractors of the Committee and shall, however, be adopted subject to compliance with applicable Union legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish these articles included in the bill, which are the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance to be a field of consensus and not a sterile refusal. In any case, the legislative initiatives taken by the government are having real problems and this can hardly be called into question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u107	Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. We are discussing a bill with arrangements from different ministries, which, however, all fall within the strategy of capitalist development, the management of the direct operating needs of the urban state. For example, the health ministry's regulations come to manage an explosive situation so that the system does not collapse. They are arrangements that encourage further trade in health, the promotion of public and private partnerships, arrangements that do not meet the needs for direct public health support with the necessary funding, the recruitment of the necessary medical and nursing staff, uninterrupted free and public access to upgraded health services for all the people. Silence in our appeal immediately to abolish the inhuman government's decision to abolish AMCA from refugees and immigrants, and to exclude them from access to medical care, is unacceptable. The same article provides for the extension of workers' contracts in the programme entitled ‘Development of services at the Pre-Accession Centres for Foreign Affairs (nutritional care, psychological support, social support and interpretation services)’. Mr. Fotella, the JRC fully disagrees with the concentration camps you set up, with the prisons you are preparing, with the Amygdales before and the Morians recently. What it claims is open hosting centres that ensure human living conditions and recruitment of staff for the timely performance of legal papers to go to their destination.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u109	But you said permanent.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u110	The situation is explosive.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u111	Because you addressed me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u112	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u113	Yes, we said permanent, staff permanent. Mr President, I beg your pardon, but it is causing us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u114	I'm protecting you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u115	All Ministries, as you can see, or renew contracts, are extending to meet needs or recruiting with fixed-term contracts. It is what Mr Brutsis says, the Minister for Labour: 'We...' - says - 'We are in favour of full employment, and that is what we want to increase'. But what are you doing here? You hire new fixed-term contractors in all ministries. That's what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u116	You are talking about centres that will not be permanent.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u117	Mr. Fotella, there will be no third time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u118	We therefore want to tell you that the situation is explosive and cannot be shown by an inhuman person depriving all of these refugees of health. So we now invite you, the Department of Health to take steps to abolish this decision. The rules of the Ministry of Transport are also in this direction. For Kastelli, was also mentioned by MP Heraklion, comrade Synchronakis. It is therefore about the arrangements for the Civil Aviation Service. What's he looking for? Ensure the support or tolerance of workers to the full privatisation of remaining airports and air navigation. It awards contracts for the supply and maintenance of rolling stock to business groups and is in a direction of privatisation. This is the policy of the regulations of the Ministry of Transport, of course, and of the Ministry of Shipping. There was no one expecting you to be sad at the shipowners. You have all served their needs with a multitude of privileges. What are you doing now? Remove the 30-year-old limit for oil tankers that had been set after the shipwreck of the "Saint Zone", which had polluted the Saronic with fuel oil. It also comes after fourteen years, since 2005, the issue of using low sulphur fuels. You're coming to solve this now. Now the shipowners have allowed it. Now you bring it. The responsibilities of all governments for the effects on the health of seafarers and the environment are great. Let's talk about the arrangements of the Ministry of Labour. What do they serve? They serve - as a whole - to ensure cheap labour force by revising and reforming, as he says, OAED, to help satisfy business groups for finding flexible and cheap labour. In the name of the creation of new jobs, the OAED budget - as well as the agencies incorporated in it, such as the OAED - is transferred to the business groups. Today, we hear as first news, the OAED programme for grants with 70% of the 3 000 euros you will give, says, for the employment of five hundred young scientists who will return to Greece from abroad. It is very hypocritical, and today, that is to say, "communication trick" of the government. Here, from this bill, you are abolishing sixty-two university-education posts, P.T. and T.T., which the competition has already been opened, is in the A.T.C., and you are abolishing them, because you are actually giving the work to business groups. Of course you do the same with the five and a half thousand scientists who are in the welfare structures. It's in a program that ends and ends their contract, and you don't have anything to do about it, what to do. Otherwise, you say "We here are trying to bring back the scientists", no matter what happens to the scientists who are here, who operate on these terms, of course, that work on these terms that everyone else works. Who will ensure that these five hundred, who will even return, remain after the end of the programme and the commitments of the employers? Is the legislative framework for industrial relations, in which the flexible forms are those, which - if you like - are expanded, and with this draft law, as I said before? Is it with the collective agreements, which you have effectively abolished by the previous law, 'I invest in Greece', the so-called 'development law'? Did the new insurance you're preparing to completely overthrow the social character of the insurance? So how will workers stay or how will young people and young people work under these conditions, which - if you like - form, terms of cheap labour force? You are showing your sensitivity to the debtors and extending the deadline for joining the payment and reintegration arrangement for those who have lost this right, despite your explicit commitment that there will be no other extension, that is what you said before. But what does this situation show? It shows where you have led thousands of small and medium-sized people who have been destroyed by the tax burden you are imposing and the tax system, of course, the tax bill, which went by yesterday and we said a lot about it. So does Article 53. What's that doing? It facilitates extension, but does not deal with the protection of first residence. The auctions, which are growing every day, grabbing people's livelihoods, which your policy has led them to bankruptcy. It is also clear from the auctions that your ruthless policy, like the previous ones, is ruthless in the hands of foreign funders, banks, all those who owe it today. The JRC has often tabled a proposal for a law to relieve the people's populations by deleting debts, with absolute protection of the first home, which you have all rejected. The Ministry of Labour provides for the extension of workers' contracts to the welfare centres. We won't argue about that. But we want here to note that with Mr von Wogau. A one-year extension was granted to these workers, which is not recognized as a pre-service for moleculosis. This is a matter for which we have been called from all over Greece, which I think the Ministry of Labour should deal with and justify this request from the workers. The Ministry of Interior is in the same direction, with limitations on the possibility of transferring employees, as it increases to 65%, from 50% to 50%, the coverage rate for the sector of employees' origin. With Article 48, the State is exempted from the obligation to ensure the needs of children with physical, mental and mental disability, as our rapporteur has pointed out. We think that here it transfers expenditure to the parents themselves, by exempting the state. With Article 54 it facilitates pending cases, as it says in the draft law, for the right to use a sanctuary, a beach, to move everything forward to business groups. What - if you want - didn't pass the previous period, now you give it all. They all come to tie with the regulations of the Ministry of Civil Protection, together with the repression, which in recent days exceeded every limit. So we also want from this step - and yesterday we did so - to condemn the repression, cruelty, provocative violence and terrorism that are currently being perpetrated. What does the government want? To sow fear, terrorism, not to raise any voices of resistance, not to organize any struggle, so that anti-population policy can pass everywhere. They want to particularly terrorize young people and young people to learn to accept everything, without a trace of resistance and vindication. You're law-abiding and subjugating, as you want them to. The labour movement has often been confronted, in its history, with the organized violence of the urban state, which was manifested by repression, imprisonment, exiles, and even excerpts. We are saying this again - and our rapporteur has said so - because he is being discussed everywhere and he is a strong, timid desire for business groups, a ban on mergers, demonstrations, so we say that you are deeply nightd if you think that you can do this. The labour, popular movement will respond fight and dynamically.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u119	Mr. Katsotis, take a look at the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u120	I shall conclude, Mr President. As far as the remaining arrangements of the Ministry of Civil Protection are concerned, it is far from the need to organise such civil protection, which will really protect the worker and the Greek people from natural disasters, from floods, fires. Because everything is cost-benefit. Here, that is the logic that goes through, the cost and the benefit. What does it cost? So we won't. Does it benefit us to give a sum? We'll do it. Doesn't it do us any good? We won't. So this logic is disastrous, it is beyond the current needs for civil protection, which will provide real security for the workers and the people themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u121	We shall now proceed as follows, Mr Vorides will take the floor, then Mr Janakopoulos and then the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Raptis. Mr. Voridis, you have the floor for five minutes. You and your position to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. I take the floor, not to support an article, which is in the bill, because it was done this morning by the State Secretary for Fisheries, but to support an amendment, which we tabled now and which has received the number 120/11, which concerns the issue of interbranch organisations. There is a brief story about the regulation of interbranch organisations. For those who are not familiar with what interbranch organisations are, interbranch organisations are an institution provided for in European Regulation 1308/2013. It is an institution in which producers, processors and traders meet, but which are linked to a particular product. This meeting, in fact, enables all the producers concerned to discuss the promotion and development of the product. There may be - and there are - opposition interests within interbranch organisations, as the interests of producers selling the product and the interests of processors and traders buying it are obviously not uniform. But there is a wider interest, which is to promote this product, to increase the market and to increase demand. So it is a basic mechanism provided for in the regulation. It was also provided for before the 2013 regulation and therefore a ministerial decision had been adopted in 2000, which regulated a number of issues in domestic law. As you know, of course, ladies and gentlemen, the regulations are directly applicable and there is no need for a process of incorporation into our national law. However, various details of their implementation were set by a Ministerial Decision of 2000. Since 2000, although the regulation has changed in 2013, there has been no regulation on the matter until a ministerial decision adopted a few days before the elections. In my opinion, that was a political mistake, because a few days before the elections you do not make substantial arrangements, especially when there have already been inter-professional organizations. Arrangements which lead to the abolition of these interbranch organisations, which were already in operation. What was the arrangement made by the previous government? The arrangement made by the previous government, in fact - has a number of demands - was as follows: He did, first, by ministerial decision. This, in my opinion, is not legally correct because there was no legislative authorisation. Do not put you in a legal debate where the thought that a ministerial decision can well be made. That doesn't matter. My opinion was that it should be legislated on the rules of application, which are always in place, that special legislative powers should be requested from Parliament, as we now do. What is the substance of the matter? The substance of the matter is: With what percentage of production it can be assumed that an interbranch organisation is being set up and recognised. The choice made by the previous government - this is an issue which the regulation leaves it open to legislation in the Member States - was to put 30% of producers on the one hand and 30% of processors and traders on the other, in order to accept that there is sufficient - let me say so - representativeness to recognise it as national interprofessional. This 30% of all production would result in the closure of existing interprofessionals. And then the ministerial decision and one, in my view, relatively short period of time was envisaged in order to achieve this increased participation. The space was six months. So that would lead to closure. We, because we believe in this mechanism of interbranch organisations, feel that it is extremely important for the promotion of products, we do not want to have such an adverse effect. The main choice made by this legislative initiative is that this 30% goes down to 15% and gives a period of five years so that this 15% will reach 30%, but within five years, that is to say, that the interbranch organisations will claim an increase in their representation. A number of other legal issues are also regulated, as there was an vagueness about what provisions of the Civil Code are being applied. That's what's going on now. A number of other issues are also regulated, which are related to the financing of these interbranch organisations and their resources. I think that this is how we are able to proceed, firstly, to an executive - if the House approves it, of course - by the end of the week and clearly state my intention in this House. My intention is to recognize the interprofessional feta because it's very critical. It has been a request for three years now, and I would like to end by recognizing this interprofessional one. It is very important to defend, support and promote our products. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u123	Mrs Maria Athanasios seeks permission from a few days' absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u124	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, twenty students and students and two of their educational attendants from the 3rd Amarousio High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Loverdos and Mr. Kegeroglou are changed from the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement to the position of Parliamentary Representative. But since I have already spoken to Mr. Janakopoulos, Mr. Janakopoulos will take the floor, Mr. Kegeroglou will follow and Mrs. Rapthi will close.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u125	Mr President, can we see the amendment to be distributed, so that we can put it in place?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u126	I think, after the procedure has been completed, because the last minute has come and you will want to be placed, you will have the rapporteurs three minutes and the parliamentary representatives will have extra time. Here, Mr. Janakopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is obvious that after what has taken place in at least the last month, I have to refer from this step to the orgy, real orgy, repression and arbitraryness on the part of the Greek Police, not only in the events of 17 November, not only to what has been mediated since then, but also to what has been seen the light of publicity during the last weekend. Even these images, but also the complaints that have been made namefully and anonymously, cause not just concern, but real indignation. As they also cause indignation and the statements made by trade unionists of the Greek Police that with the present government "the hands have been solved". That was precisely the phrase, which was used. And I expect an MEP, otherwise politically liberal, to explain to me what their hands have been solved. As far as the creepy thing is, in fact, going through our eyes on the Internet, but also on the road in the last four five days? Have their hands been solved to strip people? Have their hands been solved by brutal protesters or even passers by, for no reason at all? Is this the political liberalism and the modernised urban state, which Mr Mitsotakis dealt with before the elections? So Mr Chrysochoidis himself, but you too are here today, the ministers of government, must answer to us what exactly it means 'the hands of the police have been solved'. And Mr Chrysochoidis must do so. Instead of enthusiasm, real enthusiasm, provoking courage to cover up and cover up the indestructibility, misery and above all the illegality of the institutions of the class, which must do, first and foremost, above all, to respect the law and respect human rights. And I invite you to think, ladies and gentlemen, but also ladies and gentlemen, if these happen in public, on the road, in front of the eyes of passers, in front of television and photographic lenses, what can happen behind closed doors of detention and police stations? Do you know, Mr. Ministers, the complaints that at the weekend they sounded screaming through the Police Department of Excavations? Do you know that? Are you proud of this? Is that political liberalism? In Greece, then, 2019, we now have complaints and images of degrading treatment and - I will say it clearly and reluctantly and go out and defend it - torture. What our eyes saw, which were published online in the past few days, are - in the narrow sense of the term - torture. And if you have the courage, Mr Vorides, because you have also made specific statements on the enforceability of law and that law is violence, that law is lawful violence and torture, I would like you to respond if they fall within this forced and legal violence, which you so gladly call on. It's obvious that the government is doing all this to regain access to far-right audiences, to the audiences that Mr. Vorides likes...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u128	Don't keep making nominal references.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u129	...and thus chooses to navigate the political climate and create a toxic political environment. It is clear that there cannot be any conditions for elementary political cooperation within this toxic political environment at a time when it is necessary, given the exacerbation chosen by the Turkish side. In fact, you are plundering the political climate, especially at a time when there is a need for basic understanding to address the real problem of escalation, which Ankara is currently trying to solve. Instead of doing this, you are plundering the political climate, and that is why you are twice responsible! But look at it, it is not possible for the government to constantly present two faces, for Mr. Dendias - who is meeting today and the Foreign Policy Council - to ask for national consensus, for consensus, for common stepping up in the face of a real problem, and for Mr. Chrysochide to be a post-election guard. It is therefore the responsibility of Mr Mitsotakis himself, but also of the entire government to recover, to understand the criticality of moments, to return to the obvious path of respecting the laws, the Constitution and to condemn torture. I expect the ministers who are currently in the Chamber, before any other response, to condemn the tortures that have taken place and for which we are responsible for specific institutions of order and then to do as much political, theoretical and ideological debate as you wish for the way in which the anti-crime policy of the Greek police and the Greek state should be organised, the terms of rigour, the field of leniency. We have to have as many ideological conversation as you like. But before that, you must commit to doing what you are going through, not only to condemn politically torture, but also to find those responsible, those people who have committed these illegitimate acts. I am not, however, optimistic that this is the intention of the New Democracy. It is clear that it does so from a political choice and I have explained the reasons for this political choice. It is related to its deadlock in the refugee, it is related to the fact that the relationship with special far-right audiences, built before the elections. And you choose the easy way for you, but inexperienced way of extreme repression, so you can redefinitely redefine this political relationship. And this is confirmed by the fact that after what Mr Grigoriadis described in his speech as creepy about what happened in the previous days, Mr. "Secretary of Citizen Protection" - in introductory words no longer - did not even feel the need to say a word in response. He took the floor, spoke five minutes about his amendments, but did not feel the need, he did not have the elementary equilibrium to say "no, they did not," or "no, they happened and we will do what goes through our hand so that we can deliver responsibilities and create conditions for better functioning of the Greek Police, respect for the laws, constitution and human rights". Nothing at all! Come in and he didn't touch! I therefore have the opportunity to say that this is a clear political choice and mandate and not a mere self-determination of the Security Councils. As far as the bill is concerned, I am not going to deal with it at all. I could possibly say a lot about choosing to legislate by way of urgency. But I could also understand the need - and I understand it - for a number of technical regulations which always accumulate towards the end of the year, not only in Greece, this is happening in all the Member States. Therefore, we do not constantly privatise the Greek parliamentary democracy. It is a process of technical nature, where there are extensions of time, where there are specific regulations for the public administration, which I understand. However, the New Democracy does not just do that because, within these technical arrangements, such administrative arrangements, in fact and under the cloak of these arrangements, it brings here a bill that conceals a series of rhetorical arrangements and clothing. Because we have told you since the first time that your political and strategic choice is to suffocate the state and its institutions and all this strategy you describe with the euphemism 'final state', which is, in fact, the state of the hardest right. Very briefly for health: Apart from the fact that Mr Kikilias has not made clear to us what his political plan is in relation to health and if he intends to take initiatives to maintain universal access to health even to the uninsured, which you said was maintained, but from what we saw in the past few days, the "Lactian" Hospital was forced to adopt a cancerous refugee, who obviously needed adoption by the "Lactic" Hospital means that he did not have access to public health. So this is where a central question arises and our political criticism is confirmed that the free and universal access which was founded as a right during the SYRIZA governance period is actually demolished. In this respect, Mr Kikilias has not given us any clear answers. In any case, we should go to those. Just two comments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u130	And that's what you're finishing up with.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u131	What are you doing with the FSA, the FSA and the health scientific conferences? You are passing the responsibility for the approval of the scientific conferences from the ERC at the IF. And in fact, having abolished the circular that defined the terms and conditions to define the scientific conferences recognised by the Greek state, you are building the new legal framework that is a return to the past and allowing health to be taken into account in situations and practices that we have experienced in the past with extended conditions of corruption in the middle and lower layers. In other words, you actually create and define the framework so that there can be special relations between the companies that organise scientific conferences and doctors. And you know how much public health has been afflicted by these kinds of relationships, which it seems you do not want to fight from these kinds of practices that are characteristic, for example, of the NOVARTIS scandal. That'll tell you something. Let's see what other drawbacks you're going to do, then. Let's go to the second for health. From EOF to the Ministry of Development - granted - the building of CHROPEI. In fact, do you know what this provision says? That this building may be granted to a private person, to a natural person without consideration. This really has never been seen before, public property, i.e. a building belonging to the IFO, passes through the Ministry of Development and says this provision that this building may be granted to a private person without any consideration. Where have you seen these written? Where have you seen these written before? Will someone answer us what deal is behind this provision and who is the private person to whom you intend to grant public property without consideration? These things go beyond every limit, not just good legislature, elementary legality! Let me close, Mr. President. For the banks, Mr. Tsipras said so. Obviously, it is a good thing to extend. However, we are still waiting for you to bring us the framework that you want to legislate in relation to the protection of first home, unless what you signed and accepted in the report of the Institutions a few days ago, that is, you intend to release fully the protection of first home, to release the auctions fully, to no longer be protected, because in your opinion we have gone to regularity. I guess that's your plan, and there's no way we could see a first home protection bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u132	Finish, Mr. Janakopoulos. There's no more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u133	Now I could also say about the sanctuary, to ask you what deal is behind the fact that you are abolishing the arrangements, which had passed a few months ago in relation to the sanctuary and the buildings in the sanctuary, and you tell us that those who have deposited permits will be able to be assessed on the basis of the previous legal framework. These are also things that are unprecedented for a serious, organised state. I could ask you about the eight hundred border guard positions...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u134	I couldn't give you any more time, though, Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u135	I know, Mr President, and I apologise.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u136	Well, hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u137	So I close by saying this. Behind the technical arrangements of the bill, there is a set of rhetorical, arrangements and "differences" that you should account for in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u138	After Mr Voridis' three-minute reasonable answer, because he had his honour, I'd like to make something clear. As far as the political leaders of all parties are concerned, the Rules may say that they do not stand in order, such as Members, but that does not mean that the Chamber is freezing when they go in and ask for the floor. The Bureau decides when it will give them the floor, of course, out of order. So because Mr Velopoulos came and asked for the floor, I would like to inform you that I have received Mrs Rapt's consent, since I had given her the floor. Mr. Kegeroglou, may I please have your consent to lead Mr. Velopoulos and then talk to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u139	Does he have an emergency job?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u140	I will not interrogate why he has asked to intervene. It's not my job to ask him why. So after Mr. Voridis's three-minute, Mr. Velopoulos will be coming to Stepma. Here, Mr. Voridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Janakopoulos, the police are controlled for its legal action at three levels: court, home affairs and citizen's lawyer. You obviously haven't read the press releases from the police and the ministry. For what is attributed to excessive force, non-legislative action has been ordered at all three levels.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u142	After five days.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u143	You haven't read them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u144	After five days!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u145	Now listen to me and don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u146	I didn't give you the floor to talk. Tell your opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u147	I hope you will not give up on me, Mr President, for the interruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u148	Do not respond to the challenges, Mr Voridis. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u149	So you also obviously haven't read the Greek police announcement about the screaming issue. He says there was a psychiatric incident and in any case at the A.T. There weren't any insults from the incidents. Now you have come to adopt a concrete view. To tell you the truth, I - because we both have legal discipline - learned not to place myself before I see a complete file. Because if I are in this position and say who is innocent and who is guilty, then I am actually showing my political position. The political position of the government is simple. Any unlawful action will be controlled. But you took another position, that you were already judging the cases and condemning them. This is a political and ideological placement. It is your right to know each time who you are a priori, from the beginning, without considering the cases. But I'll tell you what I find most impressive. These are just as much given your views and your support as specific extreme audiences are known, your opinion is well known and it does not surprise us. We're waiting for them. However, you ignore the people's mandate to stop the lawlessness and chaos, you ignore the success of the police, for which many of your officials were threatening the chaos that will take place in the protests, you ignore the fact that the right to gather, to protest, to protest and that they were protected by successful police measures by the demonstrators themselves to exercise these rights, and you come and say that you are shocking. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that is unique. Can we not have a political consensus on a matter? For Greek-Turkish! Why cannot we have a political agreement, ladies and gentlemen? Because Mr. Janakopoulos charges the Greek police. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] Mr. Janakopoulou, let me come to your position and accept that the Greek police have done their job badly and that some policemen must be checked and punished. So let me take your position directly. I don't adopt it, but let's go to what you've accepted as an insurer. Question: So this prevents us from consulting the Greek-Turkish? But are you serious about SYRIZA? What are you talking about? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Can there be a party in Parliament saying that because of these incidents - I tell you outright incidents, which are, however, controlled, to the extent that they exist and are controlled, why no one has come back to say congratulations - there will not come to build a consensus on the Turkish challenges and threats? And that's a position that reveals your priorities. You were once again, Mr. Janakopoulos, revealing what SYRIZA is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u150	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u151	The President of the Greek Solution Mr Velopoulos has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u152	There is no way, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u153	Listen, Mr. Janakopoulos. You have expressed your political position.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u154	I want the floor on personal grounds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u155	There's no personal, Mr. Janakopoulos. I have ears too. The President shall decide in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u156	You will allow me to explain, Mr President. Mr Vorides' s slanders are not to be left unanswered. It's a distortion of our evenings.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u157	You're not the one who runs, Mr. Janakopoulos. I run and have given the floor to the President of Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u158	Mr President, what you are doing is unacceptable. You're unacceptable!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u159	Mr. Janakopoulos, the ones in the sovietes, not here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u160	Mr President, please leave me a moment. Mr Janakopoulos, you have expressed your political positions. Political positions are not a personal matter. Here, Mr. Velopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u161	Mr President, it is a terrible thing to do. You're unacceptable!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u162	Mr Janakopoulos, if we did this to your President, you would call us 'fascists'. What you're doing is fascism.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u163	Mr President, what you are doing is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u164	Mr. Janakopoulos, sit down. You don't have the floor. You will say that it is unacceptable and we will be judged by Parliament in its entirety. We are judged by the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u165	It's a terrible thing to do! It's unacceptable!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u166	You don't have the floor, Mr. Janakopoulos. Here, Mr. Velopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u167	If Mr. Janakopoulos doesn't stop the delirium, how am I supposed to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u168	Let me tell you! Look at that!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u169	You've been eating me five minutes. You'll talk to me better, sir! I don't know you, I don't answer you. I don't know you, I don't answer you. You are a mere colleague of mine, I am not allowed to speak. If you do not understand it, this is called 'austerity'. Personal controversy and show will you do in here? One Mr. Vorides, one of you. All right! You came here and told us about torture. Don't even have bone spasms, don't have phalangs, don't have a Gestapo and SS! What are these things? You talk to the Greek Parliament, you of SYRIZA, who in Prespes killed Greeks! You threw the blood out of them, you threw their brains out of them, you threw tear gas into five-year-old children, and you have the nerve now and you're talking. That's nerve! And because you do this all the time - and I say this sincerely - at some point this has to stop. This is called 'government policy'. The Prespes didn't beat the MATs? Didn't they open heads? They didn't dig up people? In Thessaloniki when Mr. Tsipras arrived, didn't he tear tear gas to five-year-old children? Wasn't that violence? But, of course, you're coming here to make the show, Mr. Janakopoulos, and then you're leaving, because you just don't want to get an answer. So that SYRIZA police force was good violence. The tear gas was pretty tear gas, it was steam. It wasn't for the five-year-old kids. Let's get a little serious in here. That's enough political specs with the bazaars and all these weird, laundry-like ones. Because it is all about laundry ideologically. What's police violence, so I can understand? What law-abiding citizen in here is afraid of the policeman? What legitimate citizen would be afraid of a police officer? Tell me at last, you SYRIZA, who are so obsessed with the police! But when the police beat the people you disagree with, it's good for the police. When the police beat your own people with whom you agree, it's bad for the police. Decide what police you want! The Police are not Greek Florist Association. Sadly, he who goes away will suffer the suffering of police violence as well. What can we do now? There's no other way. This is the way it is done in France and Germany, not to tell you what is happening in other countries with plastic bullets or electroshocks. Get serious about SYRIZA at last. You've been government five years and you've beat people to labour for work, you've beat people to Prespes, and you've come to show you the channels at night. Aren't you embarrassed? I'm a reporter, I know of channels. You have now come to make an ideological specula with Mr. Voridis to play at night that Janakopoulos fought with Voridis for ideological reasons. Shame on you! Fairy tales! We're making fun of the world! Let's actually go. I really don't understand that, Mr. Voridis. That's the fear, son, on the left, I don't understand him. Mr. Voridis, I want you to listen to me. I don't understand, Mr. Voridis, why are you apologizing? Why did you apologise to Mr. Janakopoulos? Such a stereophobia that the Greek Parliament possesses does not understand. Whatever the Left does, is it good? When left-wing police officers beat up on the left-wing government, are they good when the other governments beat up bad? I really don't get it. I came to talk about other things, but what I saw got me out of my clothes. First of all, Mr Janakopoulos does not respect Parliament. He goes up to the Step President of the party and doesn't respect him either. If we did it to his president, they would call us fascists and far-right and authoritarian. And not only that, but he didn't sit down and listen to us. This is SYRIZA: lasting monologues, saying only their own, monothematically, only to spaghetti and collect voters. All right, you got half of PASOK. Yesterday you got half of PASOK. Long live the PASOK! You're all done! These are incredible things. There was a ovarian mutation of a third party that beats the world when it suits him, of a left party that gathers all of the PASOK, who sweared before and said the PASOK went bankrupt, that he made misery, scams, etc. What a hypocrisy! What a party and that, boy! I don't understand. So now let's go to those you're protecting. Me, gentlemen, I have nothing with these kids. However, Athens has been filled with large, huge posters. They're the ones here in micrographs. If you go downtown Athens, you'll see them. It's Autonomia Antifa, the ones who made the incident. You know what they say? I will read to you: 'You are wondering what causes Turkish provocativeness'. You know what's causing her? Listen to what Antifa is doing to protect Mr.Janakopoulos: "The plans of the Greek state to extend the Greek state". I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above poster which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament]] That's what you're protecting, that even MIT agents wouldn't do that thing. They make the episodes or most of them. And if they want the Syrians to know who they are, let them look a little further. And I say it to understand. So who are you protecting? Who are they protecting SYRIZA? The ones who since 2008 burned Athens. They burned Athens not once, many times, the property of the private, the businessman. And what does the police do? Share flowers, roses and gardens? In Prespes, of course, - let me say it one more time - the SYRIZA policemen of the then government handed out roses, usually red, but sometimes pink, because the blood fell on the rose from the club. Let's get a little serious, guys, because things are more serious than they seem. Don't make political specs in here when Greece's in danger. Homeland is at risk, and we are dealing with everyone who wants to make his party audience a better impression, that he said it better than the other minister, who is the big show. Well, that's not how it's gonna happen. Minister, bill - 'blueder' is this. And I don't understand. Unbelievable things. I read in a bunch of things. You've confused everything together. Two months ago, you brought them back here differently. I don't understand what government you are. You electionally stole the Greek people's vote, saying you have a programme. But what you do proves you do not have a programme. These are sloppy things and I also do not see people who could give a prospect to the country. I will set an example for you to understand. Yesterday at SKAI - your channel, the favourite New Democracy channel for years - they said that at last the government gives, in order to turn around the six hundred thousand Greek birds, three thousand euros for a year, subsidizing a programme in two thirds. Are you all right, Minister? Will the other man return from England, France for one year of subsidised programme? Who are you kidding? To play "SCAI" five, ten minutes on Philippidis - I don't know what his name is - your journalists say "how nice the government is doing", "is it something", "is it hope"? What hope? What businessman will hire a man to three grand for one year of subsidized programme, when next year he will be obliged to pay him 30 grand a month? Business doesn't have any money, Mr. Voridis. What kind of fireworks are these? So you think you're making fun of the world? So you're going to keep mocking him for long? You won't make fun of the world for long. You won't sincerely make fun of him. As for the health bill, you could call it differently: 'Health bill, illegal immigrants and other provisions'. A lot of illegal immigrants, Mr. Voridis. You who have another perception of illegal immigrants - in the past - have agreed, of course, now to disagree - if you read in what he says. Personal will take them, servants will take them, people will take them, we will host them. He's got stuff. If you don't know, read it, Mr. Voridis. There's a lot of provisions. I have them in front of me. May I give them to you? Article 6, Article 8, illegal immigrants, Article 9, has means for structures, has something, Mr Vorides, remuneration, wages, Article 17, Article 26. All this is for illegal immigrants. You, Mr Vorides, have confronted Parliament here with Mr Janakopoulos for illegal immigrants. Anyway, we're actually going. I don't want to apologize to anyone here, but I have to say something to Mr. Ilhan whom I like as a person. Once I spoke the other day, he got caught from somewhere and said something I didn't say. I mentioned something specific. I didn't know that in our Thrace, where our Muslim minority, our brothers, are living, they become clalodomes. I didn't know that in Thrace we were thrown off our rooftops homosexuals. That's what I said. I talked about extreme Islam. From now on those words entered my mouth and started saying things about us in here. And especially in Thrace I have relatives. So be very careful when we talk to faces. I talked about homosexuals who extremist Islam flies off the rooftops and clastonics that make extremist jihadists. Now how he identified what I said with Thrace, I didn't get it. Perhaps Mr. Ilhan wanted to show that he was fighting for the Thrace Muslims. The Muslims of Thrace are Greeks. Nobody's questioning it. They're our people. They're our brothers. It's over and out. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I would, however, like to hear from Mr Ilhan and Mr Ilhan here about the role of the consulate which terrorizes Muslims in the region, about the pseudo-whisperers who perish about whom no one says anything in here, about everything that is going on there. Let's talk about the sharia. We are the only European country we have sharia. The moor makes the judge. I would like to say that we cannot selectively remember certain things and I will not allow anyone to put words in our mouths and, above all, to distort what we are saying. We are Greeks, nothing more, no more, no far-right, no more left-wing. We are Greeks that we love the country and I want everyone to love the country as much as we can. That is our view and we do not change it. But now I have to say something that surprises me. If I said that in another form, the whole Parliament would have cleaned me up, Mr Voridis. I read you a statement from the political leader: "Look, my friends, we believe that we should completely abolish the borders. Yeah, 'cause we're all African. Humanity has spread from Africa and we are all wrong - he says otherwise - children by definition anthropologically speaking." We are bastards, anyway, who come from Africa. Chief of Political Party said that. Mr. Varoufakis. I don't know if he feels like this - there's videos - Mr. Varoufakis, but I personally don't feel that I'm an African. I can feel I'm something else, alien. But I'm not African, Mr. Gregoriadis. If that's what your President says, I really can't understand. Anthropologist is not, as an economist, not to say what, he ruined everything in Greece for six months, we lost 100 billion with his government. He doesn't even do an anthropologist. Because I'm a historian, these are unhealthy visas, which some people do. It can't be said that we Greek bastards are. No people are a bastard, no nation is a bastard nation. It's over and out. So let's cut those chips a little bit to get serious. If another party leader said that in here, if I said it, it'd be a mess. Varoufakis said so, someone else said so, no one talks. In conclusion, Mr President, I sincerely wish you, Mr Vorides, and gentlemen of the New Democracy, if you can, stop speaking as far as you can. Stop talking about Greek Turkish. When you talk, you constantly do crimes and verbal and verbal. I will give you two, three examples, and I will close here. By the time Erdogan escalates, the government, Mrs. Keramos, opens up three mosques in Kos and in Rhodes. Couldn't he slow it down? Slow down. I'm not saying don't open them 'cause you're also Islamists, you're multicultural, you want to be bored, your Chief said so. I did not understand the reason why the mosques should be opened in Rhodes and Kos. You'll tell me there's a hundred, fifty people who live there. You're right. They're Muslims. I understand that. There will, however, be Muslims in other fifty regions throughout Greece, where you will make the hot spots. And that's where you're going to make mosques? Will you do 50 more mosques? At least slow it down. You're making mistakes. Erdogan asks both Athens and Thessaloniki. Are you going to open this up, too? I'm asking you. What are you doing? While we are intense with Turkey, you give it butter to the bread so that it can escalate further. It also comes out of the Prime Minister of the country and says this unimportant: we will do what goes through our hand so that this agreement does not come into force. What deal is that? Libya and Turkey. If he does what he did with the Prespes, we're lost by hand. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] No, we won't have an EOZ, and Athens won't be there in a while. You're making fun of the world. For the press, you didn't do anything, so you're gonna do something. You can't do that either. When I asked the Prime Minister of the country about AEZ, do you know what Mitsotakis' answer was a few months ago? I personally want peace and stability. I told him about EOZ and he said to me: "Hello, Yannis, I'm buying coffee." I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos presents for the minutes the above-mentioned reply which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is the New Democracy that mocks the world. Instead of defining ourselves as EEZ since September and running the Turks behind evolution, you let them define EEZ and we run behind evolution. When we said in September, "Call Haftar here to make a gentlemen's deal," you fell asleep again. You did what you didn't hear. And you agree with Libya's pro-Turkish government, you have diplomatic relations. These are criminal mistakes. And finally, in the channels the ridiculous "pads", the "usable idiots" stop lying. They say a serious lie, Mr. Voridis, and many Members use it in here. They say: Turkey has the largest coastline. This is a national crime called, Mr Voridis, because it is a great lie. Turkey does not have the largest coastline, that is what Greece has. What's wrong with Turkey, you know? Look at it a little bit longer. Continental line. Other continental line, other coastline. The international law of the Sea differs that concept. So when the journalist or any of your Member or Minister sits and says this, that Turkey is entitled, in style, to Katrugalo, Kotzia, 'cazan-kazan', to not be lonely - Dokos came out and said so, 'No lionisms', he says, 'Dokos, your Prime Minister's advisor, and 'not to make provocative moves' - here, therefore, we are seeing an agreement of Mr SYRIZA - a New Democracy on sedation, which we are not entirely in agreement. Because, I repeat, if tomorrow is really answered by all Parliament that our'red line' is Crete - but to say that our'red line' is Crete, Kastelorizo - will not dare to take the next step. It's very hard for them, believe me. And close to saying this. When I get the Minister, Mr. Dendias, and he answers the challenges of Kastelorizo and Crete to Mr. Erdogan as follows, "you have no arguments and you are exposed", what can I say now! This is the answer of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, that you Turks have no arguments and you are being exposed! Do they care if Erdogan is exposed? Is that what you think? Do they care at all? They don't care, Minister. Of course I advise Mr Doko to speak less. Not in lionisms, not in us! Tell them across the street to the Turks. And Mr. Dokos is the Prime Minister's advisor, and Mr. Dokos was talking about reconciling the Aegean Sea lately, and you've got him there! At least SYRIZA will say that they are taking a serious stand to date in Greek, Mr Voridis. They're not escalating, they're serious. You're talking insanely. You are talking about a single foreign policy, you do not convene party leaders, you do not speak with them, and you have Doko, the counselor of Mitsotakis, telling you something very simple, “not lionisms”! When the other guy barks you and bites your leg, Mr. Voridis, you kick his head. If you don't kick his head, it'll take your neck and drown you together. And I'm afraid that with the mistakes you make, you will drown Greece, Mr. Voridis. Not you personally. You have some views with which I could agree, but you have changed them to me lately. It doesn't matter. Everyone's gonna show what they're doing, what they're not doing, where he's right and where he's wrong. The accident is that you govern as a New Democracy multiculturally - that is the accident! - and fearful, Greek-phobic. Get Greek foreign policy and we will be with you, too, if we say "no". For the great 'no' we Greeks have become familiar, not with 'yes', Mr Vorides!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u170	The reason now has...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u171	Why do you continue to be dissatisfied, Mr President? I have the right to make a clarification. There have been personal comments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u172	You're going to make me say you don't have any House experience.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u173	I've got too much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u174	Just ministerial.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u175	Mr President, why are you displeased? Put the government in place.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u176	Not provided. Political positioning is not a personal issue. That is what the Bureau considers. Mr. Mulkiotis from the Change Movement has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u177	He's a parliamentary representative. He is entitled to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u178	He can't take the floor. Why would he take him?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u179	Here's what I'm telling you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u180	I'm not dissatisfied.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u181	Is Mr. Vorides afraid to hear the clarification I want to do? Are you afraid, Mr President, to hear the clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u182	I'm not afraid of anything, Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u183	You are arbitrary as Bureau, you are afraid of clarification, you are doing so again, and you are not giving me the floor to explain the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u184	There's no personal matter. That's what I have a right to defend... Mr. Mulkiotis, come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u185	You are arbitrary as a Bureau. You are an authoritarian Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u186	Mr Janakopoulou, do not address these words to me. Read the Rules of Procedure first, that the President judges whether there is a personal matter and then gives the floor to explain it. There's no personal matter!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u187	If you gave me the reason to explain...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u188	I am experienced in this Chamber. I heard Mr. Voridis too. Political positions when they are expressed - you heard President Velopoulos, he said various positions - does not mean that it is a personal matter. Mr. Mulkiotis, come on. I am the president, not Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u189	Your attitude is unacceptable. It would have ended if you gave me the floor. Mercy! Shame on you, disgrace on you personally!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u190	What is the "faith!", Mr. Janakopoulos? What's your point?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u191	Will you give me the floor to explain?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u192	Is that personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u193	Of course, personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u194	Have a seat, Mr. Mulkiotis. Here, you have the floor for just a minute, Mr Janakopoulou, to tell what the personal issue is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u195	The Bureau, in a disgraceful and authoritative manner - and I personally denounce the President himself for this attitude - deprives me of the floor to explain that Mr Vorides has deliberately and slanderly distorted what I have said. And you should know, Mr President, that when it comes to this point of view it creates staff, because the view has been distorted and distortion has to be explained. As President-in-Office, you had to know this, but you seem to have decided, as the Bureau, to deny the floor by the parliamentary representatives so that the ministers do not receive the appropriate answers. I said, therefore, that the New Democracy cannot at the same time beating the internal political climate to seek consensus. Of course, the consensus in Greek-Turkish and all national issues is sought and we have proved it. From there, however, the attitude of Janu of the government, which is divided on the one hand and, on the other hand, with specific ministers such as Mr Teddy, who rightly chooses to be compromised, consensual and with political will, cannot continue. The government cannot continue to implement this dual strategy, which is also represented by specific ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u196	Good. You're done. It's been a minute. There's no personal matter...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u197	No, I haven't finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u198	Politics, as Mr Vorides has put it politically.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u199	In concrete terms, therefore, ministers are systematically and deliberately plundering and precisely in this respect there is a political contradiction within the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u200	Mr. Janakopoulos, you're done. Come on, Mr. Mulkiotis, or I'll call the next one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u201	You insist on authoritarianism.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u202	I've never been authoritarian, and you should respect that. Withdraw the word if you want to be consistent with yourself and the whole parliamentary group. I have always been condescending, always meticulous, but I also have the crisis to see what is personal and what is not. Political positions differentiated by a political group in a political group are not personal matters. Still...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u203	It was an interpretation of the opinion, Mr President. You didn't do me a favor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u204	...I gave you the opportunity to claim the staff, but you didn't find it again...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u205	Respect your institutional position!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u206	I respect her very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u207	Not at all, it seems.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u208	Mr. Mulkiotis, start your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u209	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today a bill is being discussed with many of the provisions and it is referred to as urgent arrangements for the competence of three ministries, the name of which is health, internal, labour and social affairs and ends up with the title 'and other provisions'. And behind the "other provisions" there are fifteen other Ministers, fifteen Ministries, which means that there are changes and provisions of fifteen other ministries. That would be the completeness of the title and it is not right in such a way, soloistic, with such a way to hide what you are going to go through with these provisions. Mr President, legislation is the operating system of a country and as the theory says, the quality of the rules of law largely determines the proper functioning of a state and the confidence of citizens in the state. In 2018, in fact, the JCC had recognised that none of the seventy-seven laws, forty-one laws and thirty-six sanctions adopted in 2018 did fulfil the conditions of the good legislation laid down in Law 4622/2019. In December 2018, when discussing a bill of immigration policy, the New Democracy threatened to leave the House, protesting, in high tones, to table unrelated and late-term amendments. Although the need to respect the rules of good law seemed to be aware of by the government and brought law to the final state, unfortunately it is the first to violate it. And not only does it violate it, but it has shredded the good legalization in the "air". Mr President, see how this government legislates and how it has brought the amendments to the House and how the Greek Parliament has come to adopt such methods, unacceptable against major ones. The amended Law 4622/2019, which was adopted on 7 August, is hereby amended. I submit to the Minutes the first page of the FEK which refers to the relevant page. [[At this point, the Member, George Mulkiotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Amendments to Law 4623/2019, adopted on 9 August 2019. Also, for the Minutes the FEC. [[At this point, the Member, George Mulkiotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am tabling this in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, George Mulkiotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Amendments to Law 4633/2019 adopted 16 October 2019. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, George Mulkiotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Modify Law 4635 “Investing in Greece” published October 30, 2019. [[At this point, the Member, George Mulkiotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Modify Law 4640/2019 that was passed and published 30 November 2019, a few days ago. Here, for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, George Mulkiotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] If that's a good law, tell me what else is a good law. In any case, the Greek Parliament must not be forced by the New Democracy Government to adopt such manipulations. They're unacceptable intoxications, and the best thing they could do was retire. These are not drunkenness, Mr. Ministers. The Government of New Democracy is also obliged to answer why it legislates and why it adopts such a way of dealing with provisions in the Greek Parliament. With regard to specific provisions, I will mention, Mr Ministers, in particular, the amendment of Article 53, on the protection of first residence. Really, have you read what we're legislating now, what are we going to do about first residence? Indeed, the law ends and there is an amendment coming and it is taken by April 2020. What does that mean? From your Private Debt Management Secretariat, I provide statistics that I submit in the Minutes. From 1-7-2019 to 29-11-2019 thirty-four thousand three hundred ninety-seven users have been filed and submitted to the banks seven hundred ninety-seven applications, seventy-seven proposals have been made by the banks and thirty-six proposals have been accepted. That's yesterday and I'm tabling it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, George Mulkiotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I ask: with thirty-six proposals accepted by the bank, do we protect the first residence with a modification that will come after four months? This is not how the first residence is protected. The first residence is protected only by Law 3869 which has to return. This is not how the first residence is protected and we do not make fun of the world! The banks don't adopt the methods. The platform that came out of 1-3-2019 unfortunately opened in July. In these situations, we cannot say that we are protecting ourselves. Secondly, you refer to the dosing extension procedure for the insurance funds. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. And those who came out and were unable to meet their obligations can now, on condition that the law makes them into instalments, provided that they serve current loans, current liabilities and any other obligations there were? Since these people couldn't pay a single dose, would they now be able to pay all those doses? So this arrangement is incomplete and casts ash in the eyes. It's not working. There's nothing at all foreseeing. And I end up in Article 30(10). Is there any urgent matter that you can change the current provision which, in addition to the Air Traffic Controllers Fund, has also benefited from the Civil Aviation Fund? Why is that so? Is it because these days the sector had elections? And finally, in Article 31, the objectives are completely unrealistic. Did you talk to the workers in the critical area of air traffic safety and control? I guess not. Because otherwise this provision could not come and it could not be voted on. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately this bill is not a bill with amendments and improvements, it is a bill to close different eyes and serve different situations. And, of course, it comes back with the introduction of special responsibility-sharing benefits to posted Directors-General, to the Directorate-General and to various other civil protection coordinators, as well as to officials involved in the Labour Inspectorate and the Environment Inspectorate. With the money given as compensation there is a selective approach from the back door to the return of the well-known customer relationships of the old right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u210	Ladies and gentlemen, I told the Minister for Rural Development and Food to remain, because as the secretariat, the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Michaelides, has been looking to see the amendment he has tabled and, if he wishes, can take the floor for two minutes. So at least the secretariat informed me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u211	What amendment do you mean, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u212	Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u213	I have asked to be distributed to see it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u214	Oh, don't you want to?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u215	We have seen it and will be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u216	By voting, good. I thought you were going to take the floor. Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u217	Mr President, will the rapporteurs and special speakers have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u218	No, this procedure does not provide for secondary rapporteurs or parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u219	A couple of minutes for the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u220	For the amendment, yes. That's what I said. The rapporteurs can speak for two minutes. That is why I addressed Mr Michaelides and anyone else who wants to take the floor for two minutes and do this. Who wants to speak from the rapporteurs? Mr. Michaelides?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u221	Mr President, I have told you that the amendment will be put to the vote. I did not ask for the floor on the amendment. I asked her to be distributed to see her. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u222	To conclude with the parliamentary representatives and then we will see. Mr Kegeroglu, Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u223	Ladies and gentlemen, we have noted many times in these five months of New Democracy's governance that not only was it not ready as it was said, but it cannot yet regulate the parliamentary procedure in the manner laid down in the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament, five months later. Because not only is it not ready, but it is not even ready to create the conditions to solve problems and issues within the framework of another policy that the country needs. And we are talking about another policy that the people asked for on 7 July, which we had also spoken in election with our own political features, and, of course, New Democracy by blaming SYRIZA. Unfortunately, however, on many key issues, it follows the humiliated and consolidated SYRIZA's policy. What to start with about the high surpluses or the supremely foreign administration and management with the granting of public property? What about immigration or national issues and the way in which the need for national understanding and shaping of a national line is addressed? It cannot, as Mr Tsipras did last time, deny the convening of the Political Heads of State in order to shape and strengthen the national line, the national strategy needed to tackle Turkey's provocativeness decisively. We cannot proceed with amateur designs, and that is what we are, of course, saying and at the same time that the debate is taking place in the European institutions without this common line being formed, without the necessary discussions at the level of political leaders, I say again, on the red lines and the direction that we must follow. You will of course tell me that the Council of Political Heads, as you say on the channels, is not to convene a party or at any time. The Political Heads Council should be convened when there are major issues of national importance. This need also existed in SYRIZA. And you know that very well because you agreed with us at the time when we asked for a Council of Political Heads of State and for the Prespecies agreement and for other issues that we have not yet learned, such as the content of the Tsipras-Erdogan discussion. For two hours they had been discussing and we still do not know what they have discussed and what they have agreed. But now you have come to the government and you change what you have said about these major issues. This is an inconsistency, but it is not just government policy. It can be at the expense of the country and you take the whole responsibility. It is therefore important for us that you do not go ahead with a policy change, but rather with a different management, but with the same logic and with the very treacherous that SYRIZA had created. But have things changed in the parliamentary procedure? Not at all. We had experienced the many last-minute amendments, the bills coming to Parliament as urgent and urgent, and there was the justification for urgent matters, the implementation of agreements with the institutions and everything else. This is slowly weakened. And today, without having this pressure to vote for arrangements or provisions to deal with agreements with the partners, the same and worse process is being followed. In fact, the New Democracy Government invented another way of legislating. In addition to the multi-brand plans, it now brings the 'politics'. So he brought a bill that is a multimodal of different ministries and a great innovation - which Mr Vorides has made today - amendment to the amendments. In the draft amendments, therefore, Mr Vorides says that he did not take it into account that the legislative procedure has changed and brings a late amendment at the last minute to include it in other amendments. Hail! To the glory of good lawmaking. It is the good legal position that Mr Gerapetritis taught us here in the first few days with the programming statements and that is all we are experiencing. I can surely say that such a bad way of legislating was neither in the heart of the crisis, nor when we were under the pressure of memoranda and agreements. This is therefore a very bad development of the New Democracy Government. The prolongation of merit and excellence - which was obviously right when criticizing SYRIZA for certain examples of undividedness or in any case of the other logic, the draw-up - comes to the government. Let's see what's going on with New Democracy and excellence? And to the glory of the state, of course, the relevant bill that was passed on with a lot of drum impacts. It brings amendments to the amendments. Giorgos Mulkiotis submitted you a small number of amendments only to your own bills and amendments are worse than original provisions. In other words, you come within five months to make the same things that you are voting on here in the House. Let's go to that one. So I think that you are bringing the change to the supervisor's qualifications in a particular position under Rule 22. While anticipating the original provision of a postgraduate, you come today and say that you do not need a postgraduate. The one you found doesn't have a postgraduate? Or keep your clothes so you can't be found by a Diagnostic. Or follow the line with the CFP commander for whom you have said that they do not need qualifications, provided he is a nationalist and best friend of course of the government or rather of the family. Or are you following the tactics that now also the scientific associates of the Ministries, specialist consultants, other than those that require experience and that they can also be PIs, the government of excellence has said that they can also be PHs. Only you've made a mistake, Mr. Voridis, Mr. Digalakis and gentlemen of the government. Our education has not come to make it worthy to be counsellors and will only be of experience. We have all these amendments that come to disprove everything that the New Democracy said in the election. It is all about this 'politics'. First home protection. He said George Mulkiotis earlier two numbers, much more said two to you I mention, thirty-four thousand applications, thirty-six arrangements. How much is that? One thousand? And while we had actually denounced this so-called electronic platform that would bring regulation and protection to the first home, that it was abolishing the PASOK's real protective framework and bringing an aspirin for a few months only, the New Democracy is coming and adopted - while it was denounced - and it says that we will still have it four months, for mocking. In fact, the Hercules bill on red loans is now being submitted and you have brought the "multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-month extension" to the "multi-multi-multi-months. And the extension for four months, of course, to the worst you bring, is good. But you only bring it to people tomorrow: "Don't be afraid of Hercules what we bring because we have protection for four months." The procedure concerning new firefighters, renewal of contracts and border guards. Of course, the contracts for fire extinguishers, which have been served for 15 years, must be renewed, but then you must bring in a provision on the recruitment of young people and do not bring any progress to what we have called for many times: Criteria, merit, transparency and under the CSCE. Why is that going on? Is it this urgent? Civil protection: You have baptized the former regional directors, the ones you will define in the next period, plus EUR 450. Yes, to receive benefits for those who will have an increased job, but by what process? What is the way you are adopting or bringing in as better than the previous one? We did not know the previous people in charge, nor the immigration centres, nor the other structures that were set up without regulations and without an institutional framework, and you continue to do the same. We have structures for immigrants and refugees operating without regulation, with no responsibility for a mess. And instead of regularising the responsibilities, what they are doing, how they work together with the CEDEFOP or the other structures responsible for supporting them, you only deal with putting your own people in the position of their own. This is not a change of policy. It is only a customer management of a major problem that needs a different view. In self-government: unpaid vice mayors. That's new. You are, of course, bringing it as a means of dealing with other political groups. If it were from the mayor's party, we would say: "Okay has some rich people who want to offer and don't want a monthly." Because I have to be answerable to you, because with this placement, or the vice mayor must be rich, or he must be stolen. What do you mean, what do you mean? Either he's got to be rich or he has to steal, or he has no other explanation. And you don't bring a provision that says that pensioners have no impact, etc. We therefore have the opening up of a ferry, thermostat of corruption and interdependent with all that you bring as innocent provisions. You have already adopted the system that once existed in communities, the financing of communities following my actions. This has been the case at the Ministry of Interior for a long time. You have arranged for the Eye, while you have brought it into legislative action, while you have brought it in with amendments - and you do well since you have not solved it, to bring it - but, forget to bring Kinetta and Mandra again. It is your permanent problem to unilateral or partial placement on certain issues. For young scientists. Look, we told you in tax, there is a proposal from our own which says that all the private sector can employ any staff and particularly higher education graduates with specific incentives: to reduce the taxation of companies employing unemployed people and for as long as the government can, the state can. All right, but, when it is not possible, this should be done through the incentive to reduce taxation. For every 1,000 euros tax-free payment of 1,550, what simpler proposal, without having to have money in the budget? You don't adopt it. Instead, there was an OAED program for five thousand people working, higher education scientists, in IKA, EKA, OAED, etc. And you say: 'I stop the programme and I will do for five hundred'. Just what do I do? Remuneration, he says, three thousand to them who will come out. For those who work inside, they will continue with a grand or 1200 euros. He brings it for fireworks and communication purposes. It's only for communication reasons, to say that he's engaged in people coming back. There is one basic proposal and I have set it out to you, plus any new human initiative for the creation of a new company to be exempted for three years from tax and social security contributions for both of the following two, to pay 50% only. Only with these proposals can they bring people back, with decent wages both in the private sector and in the public and self-government. Social dividend. Persons with disabilities up to 24 years of age who are family members, became snails, etc., were announced to be corrected. Lonely LOVEs that have no parents at all? Lonely LOVEs that have no parents at all are not social dividend beneficiaries. Like the threeteen children, they're not. They're just laundry kids. If it's three children, it's different from being four. That's a big difference! Of course, the corresponding arrangements. Ministry of Infrastructure and I'm finishing. In Article 33 it speaks of the tender for the supply of rolling stock and buses. The previous government, for its own reasons, was looking for ways to see how to make the contests, to do them the way she wanted and not supplied buses. The fleet's obscure, does it have to? Yeah. And you come and say, "Ah, we found the way SYRIZA hadn't found, the Ministry will do it. And along with the car contests, for the rolling stock, we're going to have some private competitions - which Spirtz wanted, remember? - 'conservation'. No, gentlemen, this provision from us will not be voted on because it confirms SYRIZA's policy to privatise maintenance in buses. If you do not remove the phrase “for maintenance” and it is only “procurement, competition” from us will not be voted on. Air Traffic Controllers. Watch out, you're setting some goals to be eligible. These objectives are very strict. And on this, because we want the audit allowance to be available with certain objectives and merits, but when you set targets that are incapable of being implemented, we will vote'residents'. In Article 30, however, you are ceasing the possibility of financing the Civil Aviation Staff Fund, which is currently provided for by the resources of EURO CONTROL, half being based on both the Fund of Auditors and the Fund of Civil Aviation officials, and you are deleting one fund. Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u224	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u225	I shall conclude, Mr President. Because they have a surplus of revenue from this resource in the way you describe, about 2.5 points. Please, please, once again - and for the Civil Aviation Office, for there to be at least our tolerance. And I'm ending up with a setup. Article 40 concerns the treatment of undeclared work and controls at work. Yesterday we asked for a change in the provision as it had been made. This provision came today and we state that we are voting on Article 40. We agree with the amendment that has been made. All auditors are now entitled to this remuneration, because it was not fair, of course, for half the auditors to take it. I conclude by saying that the government should today, by closing in 2019, commit itself that it will not bring about a draft law again. Mr Vorides brought the amendment. The amendment contains very serious issues relating to interbranch organisations. What he invoked with feta could, by modifying Arachovitis' previous joint ministerial decision, correct things and proceed to recognize the inter-professional organisation. Unfortunately, he didn't. But he got a chance, too. He tells you: 'Since this is the case', he learned on the streets of the ministries that this is now the case and he also brought his amendment. Of course he will have a consultation before tomorrow, but without, Mr Voridis. Do you very much reduce representation from 50% to 15%, why? Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u226	From 30% to 15%.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u227	From 30% to 15%? Half, 50%. It was wrong here, by 50%, then. So they wrote me from 50% to 15% and that is, of course, one/3, but 50% for what?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u228	Mr. Kegeroglu, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u229	I mean that the legislative work should also be the result of consultation with society, it is not an invention that some day came to say: 'Hey, you guys have to consult with society'. It is a precondition for the laws not only to result from the country's social and economic needs, but indeed, to be embraced by society as a whole. The best piece of legislation when it comes with an amendment does not have the prerequisites to implement and bring the results we want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u230	Okay, you said that. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u231	Let us make a commitment, therefore, that you will not bring back a'strategory'. And you, Mr President, - I remembered that now that I made the speech - do not have to accept such things again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u232	To give the floor to Mr. Kontozamanis, the State Secretary, to submit legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr President. I'm making legislative improvements to the draft law of the Minister of Health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u234	Good, testify and distribute. Now, I'm going to give Mr. Lambroulis the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u235	Parliamentary representatives have the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u236	Mr Michaelides, on the amendment, because I have told Mr Vorides to remain. You want to say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u237	You said that, if I am not mistaken, in the two Members' dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u238	For the third time, Mr President, I say that we shall be voting. We don't need a separate placement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u239	Good, Mr. Lambroulis wants to be placed. You have the floor for two minutes, Mr Vice President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u240	The amendment by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, under a general number 120 and a special 11 for interbranch associations, concerns mechanisms provided for in the common agricultural policy, serves to integrate small and medium-sized farmers into the industrial project and it is fraud involving representatives of farmers. In fact, wolves, monopolies, namely trade and processing, enter, keep sheep, that is, farmers. The examples in this direction are too much. See: Interprofessional cotton through which the government would solve the price problem in cotton. What's going on? The vultures do what they want by actually sucking the blood of small and medium cotton producers or, respectively, by inter-professional associations. I'll tell you something else. Through inter-professional associations, the mammals in fact solve their differences with a characteristic counterweight that took place some time ago between milk-industrialists for the inter-professional feta, while the price for sheep and goat milk is still at the lowest levels of the past twenty years, despite the small rise it had this year, while the exports of feta-industrials and respectively the profits of the large-industrialists have been detonated. Finally, this amendment is unacceptable and the provision for the possibility of collection by non-member countries of fees, i.e., people's consumption, for their financing, of course. The people will thus fund a mechanism that works on behalf of industrialists and major traders. That is why we are voting against this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u241	The amendment by the special speakers wants another reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u242	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u243	The reason for this is Ms. Bakadima's special employer, Mrs. Bakadima.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr President. I shall be speaking about the amendment and I shall be brief enough. The Minister for Rural Development is trying to lay the framework for the establishment of interbranch organisations, their form in the recognition process and their funding. In accordance with the first article, the recognition of an interprofessional product by product is envisaged, but several questions arise fatal from this provision: for example, why only one, what composition will it have, will it combine the possible regionalities that will be created? Secondly, Article 3 proposes that when such an organisation is recognised, it should be demonstrated at the time the application for recognition is lodged that it represents 15% of total production and 15% of processing and/or marketing, less than half of the planned rate. But when there is a question of representativeness in the interbranch organisations, since producers, processors and traders are not always represented, with a characteristic example of the Interbranch Organisation of Vine and Wine, where only winemakers and not winemakers and traders are represented, should we not have an amendment, once it comes, to create such a framework for ensuring the presence of all parties, for the creation and processing of a product? Other organisations have as serious problems as this table olive and olive oil, which was forced to take on all the economic problems faced by PASPEZ. We believe that the legislative framework for defining the role, operation and action of interbranch organisations should be defined so that they can finally be an effective tool for planning and implementing a rural development policy. What we expect to see is a full legislative framework and not an amendment that will give the Minister of Development a white check so that he can, by his own decision, define the procedure, the recognition documents and all the other issues of implementation and operation. I also consider it unacceptable to introduce contributions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, too. Does anyone else want to speak with special speakers? No. No. Mr. Undersecretary of Education and Religious Affairs, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, two provisions of the Ministry of Education will explain and understand, firstly, the nature of the urgency, and secondly, that they are coming to deal with things that the previous political leadership has inherited us. In Article 27, the first provision relates to university research institutes. They are research institutes operating in the context of universities in specialised fields. Law 4445/21, therefore, provided an evaluation for these institutes, which is good, and also provided that their operation would be stopped after completing the evaluation at the end of this year. However, a ministerial decision which would determine the procedure, the evaluation criteria and which a ministerial decision was never adopted by the previous political leadership, was also provided for, so that the evaluation process could not be completed. So what this provision provides for is that an extension is granted to the operation of these institutes for one year, as many young researchers work in these institutes, once the ministerial decision on the evaluation procedure has been adopted, in order to complete this evaluation. Evidently an extension is also granted to the terms of the institutions' administrations. The second article, Article 28, gives the possibility of re-introducing and reintroducing contracts for staff employed at the Hellenic Open University and the reason is that the recruitment process through the AACC has not been completed. There is therefore an extension until the end of 2020 - not later - in order to make it possible to complete the CSCE process.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, Minister. Mr Vorides has the floor, because some of his amendments have been tabled, to clarify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u248	On the part of the Communist Party, the objection is a structural one. The objection is well-known and, therefore, I do not think it makes any sense to extend myself to it in particular. It's a - let me say - base objection. In any case, I should just like to clarify two things, for which there must be no misunderstanding. There is no inter-professional organisation in which producers and processors and traders are not involved. In other words, on the one hand we have the party of production and on the other hand we have the part of processing and marketing. If we don't have both of these, then we don't have inter-professionals. Secondly, with regard to reducing the percentage, I have explained from time to time what its logic is. Its logic is that we believe in interprofessionalism, we want it to be done. It is not that we do not care about their representativeness, but between the choice of having no representativeness and encouraging them within five years to increase their representativeness, our choice is that we also want to have interbranch organisations. We believe them. We believe it is an important tool for drawing up and strategy and also, in order to avoid misunderstanding, not only is it not, but it is forbidden to be a price debate. It is forbidden to be, because that is where we go to harmonised practices, as also does it not mean that coexistence with an inter-professional bans internal competition, even on the same side. The fact that industrialists are going to sit on the interprofessional or sit on the processors does not mean that they do not have internal competition between themselves. Of course they do. It means, however, that they can discuss, as I said, their product and draw up a comprehensive product strategy. The third issue he raises, the issue of compulsory contributions, is completely linked and you will see it, if you read it a little - not that I blame anyone on it, because the urgent procedure has perhaps not allowed for a thorough treatment of the provisions on the part of this House - that the compulsory contribution to non-member third parties only relates to Union law, that is to say, provisions of the regulation on the basis of which under certain conditions, that is to say, that, depending on the type of product - fruit and vegetables have another majority, milk - there we have a majority of 60%, and 80% of the participation of producers and traders, and that only then becomes binding on third parties. Therefore, there can be no binding 15% on non-members except at these very increased rates and only in these cases. That is all I wanted to say in detail so that there are no misunderstandings. Thank you very much for the critical remarks.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u249	To give the floor to Mr Dimas, Secretary of State for Development and Investment, on his own provisions in the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to talk about Article 57. I supported it yesterday in committee. In fact, with Article 57, we manage and place Greece strong on the map of innovation and, in particular, on a global level. It is the creation of an innovation state, a natural area, in which we aspire to have large companies, newly-born companies, start-ups, researchers and universities in order to create natural synergies and promote research and land innovation. This is a very important project on the part of the Greek Government, which we hope will also have a significant success. The way in which we move on is through a public-private partnership, i.e. the Greek Government, the Greek government, empowers the land to the Municipality of Piraeus and we will proceed to a competition in the first few months of 2020 in order to find a contractor who will also make the development of this project. We believe that this is a very important initiative, especially when we have many people involved in innovation and research who are abroad. It is an important first step so that we slowly begin to re-enter our scientists who add value abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, too. We will close the procedure with the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mrs Rapt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the wording invoked by the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, I do not know who said that the hands have been solved, why he said so and why he said so, and as a lawman I do not like to comment on speculation. However, as far as the detained ones are concerned, I refer here as a lawman to what has been heard "no trial before there are two myths of hearing". But what I want to make as a comment, in the light of what has been said about the police's'solution of the hands', is that the hands have been solved not obviously to unlawful it, but to implement the law. And what law? The law that the government has brought to bear the universities to stop the construction and use of molotovs in and out of them, the law brought about by the government to stop the destruction of public property and the occupations, the law that brought about the punishment of the citizens through the Internet, which actually brings organised crime against those individual guards outside the police departments, which burn in every raid of anarchists. We tightened the framework for all these penalties and assigned the universities to their owners and occupied buildings. It's obvious that this legitimacy, this normality is bothering you. Otherwise, four years you have ruled, you would have legislated something for its implementation. Not only did you legislate, but you have reduced the penalties, you have eliminated the criminal offence for a number of criminal offences, such as the construction and use of molotov, and of course you have voted against the specific provisions that we have brought with the amendment of the Criminal Code to the House, leaving our fellow citizens at the mercy of the gangs. However, the citizens on 7 July gave the answer and the mandate to us, so that we can slowly and firmly build a normal, state-sponsored, and that is what we are implementing on a daily basis. Ladies and gentlemen, with the present multi-legislative draft - to come to the provisions of the draft law - it has become clear in the debate before us that we are implementing concrete, necessary and urgent intervention on individual issues, but today it is necessary to regulate and effectively address them. Why? Because the current legislative framework and the limited time available do not solve these outstanding, serious problems. Everyone, it is true, would like the time to discuss much more and without, of course, the urgency procedure, but unfortunately, we do not have that luxury. After all, both in committee and in our presence, it has been accepted that there are no doubt that there are many urgent reasons why these rules are introduced and we are discussing this draft law - which means that neither ruptured nor invalid. I would like to focus on specific issues of the bill and, above all, on the positive effects of the proposed legislation. As far as the health of citizens is concerned, we are indeed dealing with these urgent issues that have arisen in the untimely establishment of the ERC doctors and dentists' boards. Thus, the provision for an extension of the processing and classification time up to 31-1-2020 enters so that these doctors do not leave their positions from the positions of the ERC. Is it not urgent, then, for this case to be regulated? Then, with the modernisation of the crisis for the selection of ERC doctors and the introduction of an electronic way of submitting candidates, this process will be completed more quickly, with greater transparency and so hospitals will resolve their needs more directly to medical staff. It is obvious that the positive impact on the service of the citizen and the protection of his health is also a topical and urgent issue. On the issue of the additional period of pay for fixed remuneration for all family doctors, this is a matter that we have repeatedly discussed during the previous government and before, that is, if we want to give decisive support to the system of primary care in the country and we all know that we must do something that is also urgent. Furthermore, for the issues of pre-repeal centres, precisely so as not to leave pre-repellatory centres without doctors, nurses and other psychologists and nursing staff, we are putting an extension of up to 31-3-2020 under the conditions of this provision. Because until then it is expected that their staff will have been completed by means of the new procedure for selecting staff. I come to the issues of civil protection. On the basis of these relevant provisions, urgent questions about our national security are being dealt with. As part of the refugee policy, the Government had announced by the regulation of Article 17 a new category of staff, the famous border guards. They are fixed-term guards, with an annual term of office, to deal with our country's increased migration flows. This recruitment is being carried out directly and without requiring the proclamation of permanent recruitment to the Greek Police, in order to protect our borders more quickly in the eastern Aegean, as we have committed. Another matter was therefore urgent. In the context of the protection of the citizen, we are making the possibility - as has been said - of reintroducing seasonal firefighters with regard to private work and we are doing so because they have a valuable specialisation in order to ensure that the country's protection mechanism is functioning properly. This regime is well known for anyone who says he doesn't know it, he doesn't know it. It is well known that the status of these contracts has been extended, but for the last time today and for the last five years, because it is obvious that there must be - and there will be - a system which will allow new workers to enter through an open competitive procedure in this service as well. With regard to the work and social security of citizens, we are giving the necessary solutions to urgent issues concerning thousands of people insured. One of these issues is the extension - a breath that we give up to 31-5-2020 to the free traders, lawyers, engineers and doctors, to those who had made a timely application to the EKKA electronic platform for determining their debt, so that they do not lose their right to be subject to the regulation of the relevant law - why not lose it? - as a result of any delay in the process of determining the liabilities of the relevant departments. If that's not an urgent arrangement, I don't know what it is! We are strengthening the action of the Labour Inspectorate, with the aim of better protection of workers and the effective implementation of labour law. This is how we ensure that the OSCE retains the car fleet so that they fulfil the role of controlling working relationships on a daily basis. Because we speak only with projects and we support workers in practice. To conclude, I will talk about protecting the first residence. There, therefore, we are, as we had already announced in the election session, extending the term of validity of the framework for the protection of the first residence until 30 April 2020, so as to complete the preparation of a coherent legislation, which we are preparing, for the purpose of regulating the debts of natural and legal persons. So we allow more borrowers to apply for their membership in a protective framework, that of the first residence, and to have their loan arrangement regulated for the purpose of protecting the main residence. Finally, with the provisions of the draft law concerning the Ministry of Justice, we are giving a necessary solution to a serious issue that the lawyers have raised with the application of Law 4640/2019 for mediation. Thus, the order may be lodged for the purpose of an intermediation settlement at the time of the submission of the complaint or, at the latest, for its discussion on an inadmissibility of the discussion rather than of the action, as it had been adopted. In fact, this regulation has had retroactive effect and also applies to actions brought since the entry into force of Law 4640/2019, an issue that had to be settled in the light of the discussion of a large number of actions prior to the adoption of the mediation law. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the need for a rapid solution to the problems involved has been demonstrated, particularly in the areas of health, social security, public order, protection of first residence and civil protection. Obviously, society's urgent needs always precede any legislative normality, which no one of course disagrees should exist. The task of politics, however, is to give immediate and substantial solutions to the problems of citizens, and we are making this clear with this multi-legislative draft. That is why we support it, aware of our responsibilities towards the Greek society that trusted us in the governance of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: 'Urgent arrangements for the competence of the Ministries of Health, Home Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs and other provisions' is concluded. We move on to vote on the principle, the articles, the amendment and the entire bill and the vote will be taken separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, sixty-six articles, one amendment, the hotel article and the entire bill. Each time on the screen up to four articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendment, the hotel article and the whole. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u254	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u255	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows: [[CHANGING PAGE]] CHANGING PAGE
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u256	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Health: ‘Urgent arrangements for the competence of the Ministries of Health, Home, Labour and Social Affairs and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u257	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u258	Authorization has been provided. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-10-S1-commons.u259	With the consent of the House at 15.38' the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday 11 December 2019 at 10.00, on the subject of the House's work, legislative work: only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: "Accommodation of the exercise of the electoral right of voters who are outside Greek territory and amendment of the electoral procedure".
