ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 18-12-2019 mandate, the Minutes of the CITs, O'AA's, OB's and OC's meetings of 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18 December 2019, including the debate and the budget vote, were ratified by the Bureau.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS First of all, before we proceed to the timelines for today's Questions, let me tell the House on Friday 20 December 2019: A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 323/16-12-2019 was raised by MP Larissa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Friend loans as natural persons and loans with the guarantee of the Greek State". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 322-12-12-2019 topical question by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Papastastasis to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "The Convention of the Greek State with the "FRAPORT" Regional Airports of Greece S.A. - Documents to be submitted to the Convention - Working conditions of officials of Santorini airport fire department'. 3. The Question No 334/17-12-2019 by MP B2 of the West Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr Kritonas Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Image of absolute degradation and abandonment in Mount Aigaleo". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 324/16-12-2019 topical question by the MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaou Symbleniou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Motions against the Industrial Aquatic Parks in the Cyclades". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 335/17-12-2019 by MP B2 West Athens, Mr. Kritonas Arsenis, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Illegal recording and storage of camera equipment at the metro stations". 3. The question by No 325/16-12-2019 of Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou, Member of the Radical Left Coalition, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on 'Change settlements of Pelion'. 4. The question raised by Mr Socrates Vardakis, Member of the Radical Left, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the procedure for the construction of the new judiciary in Heraklion, under number 336/17-12-2019. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question, under number 1297/15-10-2019, by MEP B' Thessaloniki, of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "Strengthening the establishment and operation of energy communities". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1946-14-11-2019 question by MP 2 Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "Energy upgrading of public sector buildings". Ladies and gentlemen, today's topical questions will only be discussed because of lack of competence. This is the sixth question by number 332/17-12-2019 of the second question by the Member of the Heraklion Parliament of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Let the implementation procedures of the Plan of Spatial and Settlement Organization of the Open City (SOCOP) of the Municipality of Minoa Pedada finally begin. Both those who will be discussing and those who will not be discussed on grounds of lack of competence, there is the letter from the Secretary of Government. So we begin with our second question under number 320/10-12-2019, first question from the Member of the Larissa Parliamentary Movement of Change Mr.Evangelikis Lykoulis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Truly delays in the awarding of pensions to the Regional Shop of the OGA (formerly OGA)'. The Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr. Panagiotis Mitatakis. Here you go, Mrs. Liikali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all, I would like to comment on the fact that it is a matter which I think should not even come to the House with a timely question. I think that in 2015 we should have won automation so that pensions, both because of old age and because of death, the widow's pensions, are delivered exactly as they should in the world and within a reasonable period of time, which will not exceed two months, as is done in all developed countries in Europe. Nevertheless, the problems we face are too much and I think that they concern not only my constituency, the Larisa County, but also all of Greece. At the Regional EfKA of Thessaly, things are very difficult, the demands are too many and unfortunately not satisfied. Not only are they not satisfied, but the sizes of time, which we have at the moment, are unfortunately disappointing, dissuasive for every citizen, to think that he is staying in a favoured place which gives him - in return - what he has done all the years of his life, which he has done. So, for old age pensions, we have more than a year of delays, while for widow’s pensions you break the bank with two and a half years delays. In fact, at the moment we have requests that have been examined since August 2017. As you can see, this is an extremely serious issue and there is no obstacle to it. We expect, and expect many, Minister, to listen to you today and see what you have to say to us and what your plan is to deal with this major issue, with the reminder that it is on average for people with a minimum income. And that's something that matters and I'm going to analyze it in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, my fellow Member, for respect for the time. Before giving the floor to Mr. Metarakis, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice has forwarded to the House, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime Responsibility of the Ministers", as is the case in the 16-12-2019, a criminal case against the former Deputy Minister of Health Paul Paulakis and former Minister of Justice Stavros Kontonis. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, thank you very much for your question about Thessaly, a question I had answered last week in plenary on the occasion of a question by Mrs Skondra. We are indeed aware of the situation. In your theology you choose - and I thank you very much for that - to raise the matter a little more generally for the functioning of the EVKA. I shall therefore reply to your oral question. Indeed, the Single Social Security Institution was only single on paper. In December 2016, they changed all the labels in the old buildings, entered this new logo "EFKA", but up to there. They continue to operate twenty-three different information systems, which do not communicate with each other, which creates major problems in applications for retirement, where the pensioner had worked beyond one job, i.e. more than one fund. In this case, the funds should still be able to communicate manually with each other, which clearly creates huge delays. It was assumed - under the Katorugalos Act - that by 31-3-2017 the single benefit regulation should have been adopted in the form of a Presidential Decree, so that there would be uniform rules that would speed up the procedure beyond the issue of insurance justice. This has not yet been done, with the result that, as Minister Brutsi has said in a written question, we have to inherit one million and six thousand outstanding pension applications. These are claims for pensions, claims for temporary pensions and claims for recalculations. That's what we found. So we found an agency that was not prepared for unification at all. The goal of 2020 is to become an e - EFKA, e-mail. Our goal in 2020 is to make digital transformation. Pensions must now be issued on the same day. It is the same transition, my fellow Member, that the Ministry of Finance did in recent years. I remind you that we used to fill out a manuscript on the tax declaration, waited for a line in the post office and went to CEPYO where the details of the tax return manuscripts were typed to come by post after months of the clearance. We proceed with a corresponding process of automation that took place at the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour, the "ATLAS" system - digital pension and we have set specific targets: In the summer of 2020 we issue 1/3 of the pensions on the same day, starting with sensitive pensions, as you well mentioned in your prototype, widow’s pensions. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] And in the summer of 2021, we will reach 90% on the same day. There will always be a number of pensions - particularly those with work abroad, in other countries of the European Union - which will require a correspondence. But if 90% of them go out automatically, you realize the rest of the 10% will come out too quickly. These are our targets for 2020 and 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u6	Mrs Lykoulis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u7	Minister, what we have heard about a digital transformation system throughout the system is extremely interesting. Of course it is interesting and, of course, we hear it very carefully, waiting, of course, for the results of this programme that has been launched before - it is not something that you are bringing now - as it has been delayed and we are going for integration. But look, what you're finally telling us is that in the summer of 2021 we will be waiting for 90% of pension applications to be met. This is an answer that you are giving us a plan for an integrated approach to the problem and so on. And I understand that. It's a political position, it's an announcement. So we salute her. It's good to come and let's go in the summer of 2021. But until then what? You should tell us what your short-term and medium-term planning is. What are you going to do with all these requests, one million and fifty-six thousand, for making requests by the summer of 2021? And to tell you why I say this, Minister, and I do not oppose you, but that is what we have to agree on. We have to agree on what point of political thought we have and we are starting. If we consider that the social nature of pensions is safeguarded in this way, by referring people in the summer of 2021, then we will not agree, then we will be very far in our minds. So both sides will have to agree that there is a matter here that needs special treatment, especially in widow's pensions. He's a grieving man, a man who's lost his man, a man who's waiting. He needs emotion and emotion. So how do you understand it in political programming? What are you going to do by then? Of course I would also like you to reply to Larissa and Thessaly, Minister, because I have not heard of this. Tell us why we've broken the average, we've gotten past him. That is why I have brought you the question here today, saying again that there should not be such questions, Minister. They should be automated and unfortunately solved in advance. I expect to hear the short-term planning on how to deal with all these people waiting from you by the summer of 2021. And with the reminder once again that they are people with very low incomes, that is, people who live from it. It's not their little present. It's their own life. So what do you say to them? How are they gonna get her out tomorrow by the summer of 2021? Because some people are in time that they don't know if they're gonna be there in the summer of 2021. Therefore, empathy has to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u8	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u9	My colleague, you have rightly done and proposed the social peculiarity and sensitivity that the state must show in the widow's pensions, and that is why our aim for widow's pensions is not in 2021, but in 2020, that is to say, in seven months from now, to be able to issue the widow's pension applications on the same day through the 'ATLAS' - digital pension. But you have rightly pointed out and thank you, and that is why the 2020 target is good and 2021, but what we are doing until then. We have moved on to a number of actions. First of all, I would like to say that on 16 December we announced the final implementation of the actions to tackle the chronic problem of the difficult service of farmers, a subject on which the Government is particularly sensitive and which is also the Minister for Rural Development, Mr Vorides. Our aim is within the first four months of 2020 to upgrade the service of four hundred eighty-seven thousand farmers and an hundred and fifty-five thousand protected members, one of the seven regional points currently operating, to become fifty-four and to get to second time the nineteen service points. We are aiming at limiting the inexperienced movement of hundreds of kilometres that farmers have made so far, decentralising the services of the former OGA and using electronic technology where possible. We started with the Region of Central Greece. Pilot implementation will take place in Lamia, and we will be able to inform you in January of how these new initiatives are going. We proceed to two hundred and ninety hirings through an AAP to the HR. We need more people to be able to speed up the issue of pensions, and for this purpose we have, with an amendment that has recently been voted on in the House, restricted mobility by the ECA and transfer more employees from different ECA departments to the pensioning groups. More specifically, for Thessaly, the administration of EFKA proceeded with the adoption of decisions to transfer competences from the Regional Department of Thessaly to other regional offices of EFKA to dismantle the present situation. Also, by decisions of the commander of the FBI, these powers were transferred to the Heads of Administration of the Regional Residents of Carditsa, Larissa and Magnesia and the Local Resident Branches of Larissa and Trikala. There we transferred all requests for a decision to be made to cover insurance, changes in registration details, reimbursement of funeral expenses, maternity benefits, childbirth, lotteries benefits and decisions to be taken by insurance. We don't expect digital transformation. It is the absolute priority of becoming the EFCA e - EFCA, but in the medium term we are moving decisively to speed up the adoption of the relevant decisions. We are aware of the very difficult situation that SYRIZA inherited us into the EFKA. Consolidation took place only on paper. They left us a million loose ends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory, twenty-three students and schoolchildren and three teachers from the 1st General High School in Vyron. Welcome to the House, children and good holidays! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We move to the third with No 329/17-12-2019 topical question by the Member of the Heraklion Parliament of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Conversion of unemployment benefit and social income for solidarity (CDE) (for those who can work) to a job'. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. The question concerns a serious issue, which, of course, relates to the issue of dealing with poverty and, in particular, extreme poverty, but has to do with the way the Ministry, the Government, the State, and more generally, ensuring the minimum guaranteed standard of living, as has recently been guaranteed as an obligation of the state through the relevant provision of the Constitution adopted by most political forces, if not all. Unfortunately in 2014 - 'unfortunately' goes to the following - we created the institution of guaranteed social income, which had three pillars: the financial support to enable the weak, those in difficulty and, at the same time, ensuring access to basic social goods and, above all, the launch of a reintegration process. I am not talking about reintegration into those who cannot work, people with disabilities or elderly people, who, in fact, have and must have the support of the state in various ways and from various aspects, social security systems and social protection. Unfortunately - here is the 'wrongly' - in 2015 the new government of SYRIZA then cut the guaranteed social income and kept it only as an allowance and, even more so, it also called it CRLs and continued to give the allowance, the financial support - and it did well - for the economically weak and poor, of course, by the policy itself followed and strengthened at that time by overtaxation, but they also forgot the second and, above all, the third pillar. Labour reintegration is a very important pillar. And my question to you, Minister, that you continue SYRIZA's stumbled-up is: Will you finally reinstate the pillar of labour reintegration within the institution of guaranteed income? In addition to this, should you consider the issue of unemployment benefit and social solidarity benefit in general for those who can and want to work for a job benefit, through a simple mechanism - by means of the'social cheque' - all of this is institutionalised - in order to work in the private sector and also in private law, self-government and the public? That's our question. My question to you, Minister, that you are continuing with SYRIZA's stubbornness is: Will you finally reinstate the pillar of labour reintegration within the institution of guaranteed income? And, in addition to that, should you consider the issue of unemployment benefit in general and social solidarity benefit for those who can and want to work on a job benefit, through a simple mechanism - with the'social check', are all institutionalised - in order to work in the private sector, but also in private law, self-government and the public? That's our question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u13	Mr Kegeroglu, thank you for one of the most interesting questions we have discussed in this parliamentary term. Indeed, the minimum guaranteed income was a very important initiative of the Samara - Venizelos government in 2014. It showed the social sensitivity of the government at the time, implementing a modern system, a modern methodology for supporting the economically weaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u14	Who was the State Secretary then?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u15	Secretary of State at the time was you, so your own contribution to the minimum guaranteed income was catalytic. And, indeed, as you correctly described, since you remember it since then, it included three pillars. The third pillar, support for labour market integration, was not implemented by the previous government. The SYRIZA government has been facing the minimum guaranteed income from the first moment and has finally come and implemented it ragged, with its great real reform has changed the name. He said so somehow, not to remind the Samara government's legislation. That was the real policy that SYRIZA went to do on the issue of social protection. From there on, the Mitsotakis Government, as you know, proceeded with the constitutional guarantee of the minimum guaranteed income to be an essential element of the state of solidarity. It is the government's intention to activate the third pillar. As of October 2019, a pilot project was implemented to link the beneficiaries of the CRL with the third pillar of the programme. For the implementation of this pilot project, the services of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, OAED, HICP, social services and community centres collaborated in thirty two pilot municipalities. Two thousand six hundred seventy - four beneficiaries were invited to participate in the pilot project. They were registered unemployed in the OAED register and belonged to two age groups: twenty-five to thirty years old and forty to forty-four years old. After the completion of this pilot project, two months ago, the evaluation and redesign of the process of interconnection of beneficiaries with the third pillar of the programme is under way, in view of the universal application of corresponding interconnectivity actions of the beneficiaries with the third pillar in all the municipalities of the country since this year, since 2020. With regard to measures to convert unemployment benefit into a private sector labour allowance, the OAED implements a programme concerning grants to enterprises and general employers for employment in full-time jobs by means of the ‘Retraining reintegration into the labour market’ programme. I'm going to go on in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u16	Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the question of reintegration must be prioritised and must be put to priority for two main reasons. The first reason concerns the weak people themselves, who, by joining the financial support programme and the ban on doing even a piece of money, are trapped and forced to live with the EUR 200. This means low expectations and a reduction in their standard of living constantly. They are compatible with a low standard of living and, of course, social and labour cuts are being cut off. This is called the 'poverty trap'. It is the result of converting the guaranteed income into a mere allowance. What should be done? The whole process should be simplified because there has been an evaluation. And in 2015, the pilot project that worked for six months has been evaluated and the second one you mentioned. The creation of this guaranteed income was not a bureaucratic process of five people at the Ministry - Mr Vorides also reminded me that I was responsible at the time - but he was with all the social actors, particularly the scientists and those who had experience. The World Bank has played an important role because it has transferred our experience from the other states, but at the same time, if you ask the World Bank today, it will tell you that it has gained experience from Greece, because we have given her a different perspective that has to do with this very pillar of labour reintegration, which was not guaranteed in the other countries. There are concrete proposals, Mr Minister. First of all, the beneficiary of the CRL, who receives the allowance, should be able to do both one and two and five payrolls a month. He must be able to work without cutting his allowance. We have anticipated this in the original decision - which I will present to you or tell you the number to find it - so that it does not cut off socially and slowly - by contacting again with work, it can, of course, also be reintroduced through the normal procedure which, anyway, can work. So do not take into account a level of income from wages so that the allowance is not cut for a period of time. The second is to convert the CRL's allowance, growing, into a social check, which it gets on its hands. By this cheque, which has been against companies that have declared themselves to be in the programme, it will in a simple way be able to work in the company, which will for a period of time receive this aid and offer full employment to the people who want to work and who can work in order to get away from this situation in which it was driven because of weakness. Look, the system's problems weren't just in the crisis. Inside the crisis, they got abrupt. The system produces poverty anyway. In particular, if we have policies that undermine the small and medium-sized strata, this will continue. Its value, in other words, was not only to deal with the major problems of the crisis. She's a timer. So I invite you to finally implement the third pillar of labour reintegration, along with those who are also in the range of unemployment and are in the unemployment fund, without having to enter the CRL. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Metarakis, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, too, for your very interesting denomination, Mr Kegeroglu. The Fifths have become "Kegeroglou's time" from the many questions you ask us, but it is very interesting that the dialogue we are having today on the subject of reintegration into the labour market is very interesting. Indeed, the SYRIZA Government was based on a subsidy policy, which was not, in fact, intended to support the weaker, but was intended to create a generation of privileged ones, pulling all Greek society down, and our aim must be to give everyone opportunities to climb up the entire Greek society. This is the big difference in New Democracy's liberal policy in relation to SYRIZA's policy. On the subject of reintegration into the labour market, we are moving towards active policies. I would like to remind you that a few days ago the Minister for Labour, Mr. Ioannis Vroutzis, presented the REBRAIN GREECE programme to support the private sector in order to return new scientists from abroad, So the logic of the third pillar, which was legislated by the previous Samara - Venizelos government, is in the context of what we want to do. In particular, I would like to say to you - what I have started before - that the OAS has been implementing such a programme and that beneficiaries of the re-entry pension are unemployed of the regular unemployment subsidy and beneficiaries of the long-term unemployed who can participate in the programme by converting their unemployment benefit into a re-entry claim on the labour market. The programme grants for 12 months in general private sector employers who employ up to ten people to support small businesses in full employment and are interested in hiring beneficiaries of the reintegration check. The programme may involve the subsidised unemployed, who are not less than 50% of the duration of the regular unemployment benefit either initial or continued. Mr Kegeroglu, the government's intention - and it will appear in new programmes that will start from 2020 - is to actively support reintegration into the labour market. And it is not only financially motivated, it is not only the incentive to support these new workers, but it is also essential. We must give every Greek family the opportunity to succeed, to create. This will help the Greek society as a whole and the Greek economy. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u20	We continue with the first with number 1885-13-11-2019 question of the cycle of petitions and questions by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theophilos Xanthopoulou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "An unjustified delay in paying to the beneficiaries of financial support that replaces the loss of the CSCE". Mr. Blondopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you bear in mind that according to Law 4411 in cases of pensioners with a disability rate of more than 80% who are completely deprived of the CSR, for 2019 an exceptional monthly financial aid equal to the provision of the CSR that has been lost is granted. This procedure was applied for 2018 and the beneficiaries received their exceptional monthly financial assistance. However, in 2019 there are serious problems with the allocation of this amount and despite the early warning and circular addressed by the Minister at the time, Mr Petropoulos, until now no payment of the amount to the beneficiaries has been made. In the Drama Regional Unit that I have personal experience, according to the local NCA there are at least twelve beneficiaries of the exceptional amount, who, although they fulfil the legal conditions, cannot receive this exceptional aid. This is because, as the local EVCA informs us, computerisation is pending, so that local agencies cannot diagnose whether the formal obligations for the award of this aid have been met so far. Since these people are generally of the lowest economic level and the minimum amount for them is very important, since procedural problems of the state should not prevent the enjoyment of the right of the citizen and, Minister, what has prevailed with the social dividend of the HEIs where additional filters were set, such as, for example, the holding of the IX car, which is unpunished for the multitude, I am essentially concerned that it is an indirect way to cut down this benefit. I ask you, Minister: First, what does the government intend to do to restore this injustice? Secondly, if the problem really arises, as I have the information from the offices of the DRC, can it be as an alternative to the aid, urgently, in view of the fact that next week is Christmas, even partially to deal with the problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, I do not hide from you that I was surprised by this question when I received it. At the moment I thought there was also a mistake, because this question is addressed to Mr Petropoulos. As you quite rightly say, it was an issue that Mr Petropoulos had sent instructions to EVKA in December 2018 and had followed an emergency circular in January 2019 to prepare the systems. I want to tell you they didn't prepare anything. No advance was made to prepare for the payment of this allowance created by SYRIZA in 2016. So your question had to go to Mr. Petropoulos. If you speak to Mr Petroulos, I would like to remind you that I, too, have asked a relevant question, which they have never been kind enough to answer from the Ministry of Labour because the Ministry of Labour in the previous period did not answer any questions, but no written question has ever been answered. I'm putting my question to the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr. South Mitarakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So if you see Mr. Petropoulos, let me know what he had done on this matter, too. You are also referring to the CSR and the compensatory amounts in the CSR. I want to let you know that SYRIZA abolished both of them. SYRIZA has legislated to abolish the ESS and the compensation you have proposed, and you are abolishing this, because your order is until the end of 2019. So you come to raise a point, because the compensation that the previous government has not prepared for a CSCE, which you have abolished and a compensation, which you have also abolished, is not given. But let's actually go. I want to tell you we're giving it to you. Since the end of November, a few weeks ago, the amount of EUR 12 has been paid, given by your socially sensitive government to four hundred and twenty thousand low pensioners. Therefore, the payment to the beneficiaries has already been made by our Ministry in a document to the General Secretariat of Information Systems has requested that the income record be sent to HRB in order to check that the income criteria for payment are met. This is, of course, the case, as it has been observed in the past, for the collection of the CSR by non-beneficiaries. At the same time, the Ministry provided the necessary clarifications to the competent ECA department on the method to be used for the search, if there are in some cases unduly paid. So the previous government abolished the CSCE, the previous government gave a set-off of 12 euros, which is also abolished, the previous government did not prepare it, the Mitsotakis government paid it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u25	It is impressive that the major part of your answer refers to the previous government. But since 7 July you have been the government of the country and you are accountable to the Greek people. That's the one. The fact that you did initiate payment of this benefit means that you were bound by the situation that you received. Thirdly, answer me in particular, Minister. I understand what you said to me that orders were made to address the problem at administrative and bureaucratic level. I, as a representative of the DRC, ask: there are 12 registered cases of people who did not get the specific aid of the EUR 12 that you are saying, which may seem lukewarm to you, but for them it is the amount they are entitled to receive. Do you have anything to tell us, commit, when will they get this help?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u26	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u27	Indeed, since July, the country has been in the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and in a few weeks' time since we took over, we have managed to pay what Mr Petropoulos and the previous Ministry of Labour have been unable. So I told you, in particular, that this payment has already begun. If there are 12 specific cases, with the permission of these twelve people, if you will be able to give us the information, to see in the system why the twelve payments in question have not been made. Possibly, there is a possibility that they do not fulfil the criteria that the law of 2016 has set or may, as I said before, because there are twenty-three different information systems operating, there may also be a mistake. I don't hide it, it might have happened. I would also like to tell you that the government's objective - and we have said that in the budget debate - is to have a permanent support mechanism for pensioners. For this reason, in the 2020 budget, the amount of EUR 971 million is set for the additional funding of the permanent support mechanism for pensioners. Of course, at the point you said before that we recognised the law and voted for it, but it is absolutely certain in a democratic society that the laws of the state apply. We did not, however, have the ideal you had, to the minimum guaranteed income, change the name of this 12-euro allowance to present it as a new groundbreaking idea, but we followed the state's follow-up, we paid it and from 2020 we will do more for pensioners than you did. Because you finally did what you did in pensions was to reduce pensions and increase contributions, while the insurance brought by New Democracy will reduce contributions and increase the rate of replacement. That's why the world voted for the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u28	We now move on to the second cycle of questions, to which the Minister for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr Makis Voridis, who, as a genuine parliamentarian, is always present in questions. The first question will now be discussed under number 327/16-12-2019 in the second cycle of the Parliamentary Pellas of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theodoras Jackis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "ELGA and private insurance". Mrs. Jackrey, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u29	Mr Minister, before I refer to the main theme of our question, I would like to refer to the Ministry of Rural Development's communication yesterday on the payment of de minimis aid for table peaches and nectarines. I believe, Minister, that the exclusion of peach collated is a flagrant injustice for producers of these products. In the recent debate we had here in Parliament I explained to you the reasons why all categories of peaches should be granted de minimis aid in order to significantly reduce the reduction of agricultural income in a very important rural area and you know that. I told you in particular about turbulent peach that the bad weather, which prevailed this year, together with the very low prices actually offered by the peaches industry, led to the collapse of agricultural income. In this context, I would add that the imposition of increased duties on peaches when these products are imported into the US market will cause additional problems on the market for crab peaches, which will become very directly visible. I should also like to point out to you that the producers of compact peaches also consider that they have been quite unfairly excluded and that there is discrimination for themselves and their families. I think, Minister, that you should review this decision and include the co-operating peaches in the ‘de minimis’ compensations, and in fact directly. On the main issue of the question, we are well aware that ELGA has been the central body for the insurance of agricultural holdings since 1988, with a view to supporting agricultural income. Indeed, it supports, I would say, morally and economically, farmers who are suffering from extreme and unfavourable weather phenomena and who are a pillar of Greek agriculture, despite the problems. Look, its modernisation is also our position, and indeed towards the removal of the malfunctions that have so far been observed by its operation, the payment of advances, which is a very important tool, and also the adaptation of the Agency to the new data on climate change, so as to cover both these threats and risks. Minister, I think that this modernisation should always be done on the basis of studies, which I know very well that they have already been ordered and are being prepared, and most importantly, that the insurance of farmers in ELGA is public and compulsory. My first question, therefore, is to let me know what is going on with the studies that have been ordered and I know that they are being prepared if they are completed. Also, I hear from announcements you are making, that you are having institutional discussions with private insurance companies, Greek and foreign. I would like to ask on what basis and on what institutional agenda these discussions are taking. How do you plan to include the private insurance sector in the ELGA insurance sector, i.e. which risks will be covered and how will producers pay insurance fees? I must also convey to you the concerns of the rural world. I do not hide you, Minister, that the rural world considers that in the name of climate change private companies are also seeking to be involved in this public insurance sector, which is ELGA, decomposition, to say so, in this sense, and degradation, and the dismantling of a public insurance body, which has offered so much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u30	All right, the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Vorides, will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. And thank you for your kind comment too. Look, if you want to talk about 'de minimis', you will ask a question to discuss this and I would be very happy to answer it in detail.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u32	I've done it and talked about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u33	Very good. You may want to repeat it in order to discuss the specific options I have made, with great pleasure. Let me tell you, however, that there is no injustice and that, in order to be fully aware of this, my policy on the part of rural development and the support of our producers is not the policy of de minimis. That's not my policy. So we should put all the things where we need to and discuss them with a great deal of joy. I now come to what is, in my opinion, important, major and central to our producers. The first of which I would like to begin with is an assumption that you have made in your question and which you have reiterated in the oral development of your question. And you are not responsible for this error, but it is the previous political leadership that you supported with great consistency and which informed you all this time of the existence or pregnancy of a proportionate study. Let me tell you about this analogy study. She doesn't exist. There is no such thing as the training stage, there is no one at all, there is no one in the tendering stage. It is intended that a proportionate study will be carried out. And these are the answers that the previous political leadership gave to Members' questions and to the rural world, when they complained about the situation in which the ELGA was found. What did he say to them? "Don't worry, because we're preparing the proportionate study." There is no such thing, there is no. Next question. Are we happy both as a state, as a State and as a Ministry of Rural Development, but is the rural world happy with this body? In other words, are they satisfied with covering the damage? Are they satisfied with the internal distribution of the premium? Are they satisfied with the lack of choice? Are they satisfied with the speed of payment of compensation? So here one of the main points of criticism and crisis of the system that covers the compensation of our producers is the ELGA. If, then, we are not satisfied - and I would like to hear your opinion on this - the question is whether something needs to be done, what direction must be taken and where it can be done. I take thirty seconds, Mr President, because I know that you are accurate in your time and correct. I only take thirty seconds to your tolerance to say this. However, the ELGA at the moment, to inform about his public finances and his budget, has 170 million revenues - your government delivered this as ELGA - 12 million legally compulsory reserve. There are 158 million left to cover damage and cover his payroll, and he pays between 200 and 210 million euros a year. It means a deficit of EUR 60 million per year. If I went on like this, in a year or two, ELGA wouldn't have to pay compensation. So I'm going to tell you what I'm going to do, but what I'm going to do - you know - is to deal with the big problem you've delivered us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u34	Mrs. Jackrey, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. I don't know what stage these studies are like you said, if they've been prepared...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u36	No one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u37	Very nice, you can publish them and fix them. Because I think there is one issue in the effectiveness of a public body operating since 1988 as a central security body, Minister, and it has been a real pillar of the Greek countryside and farmers affected by extreme and unfavourable phenomena, and most of all because of climate change these are visible and climate change is present and we are seeing it. I would expect a public body to adapt to this, because we know very well that agricultural insurance is a basic tool for agricultural risks. We also know very well that agricultural production is a long process which involves high and high management costs. The agricultural insurance sector is therefore a multi-faceted and multi-level sector. Private insurance is purely speculative organizations, Minister. They're not here to operate with deficits and rewards. The private insurance company, the private companies, have the sole objective of profit. If, therefore, a public body which has 170 million revenues, as you have said, is supported each year by 60 million from the State budget or by its reserves - why are there reserves - it responds in this way, much more so, how much will a private insurer respond solely to profit? That is why I would expect you, instead of making announcements that you are with private insurance agencies in Greece and abroad, first to see the malfunctions and to resolve them at the level of the public body and the organisation that is currently working. That's what I expect of you. In fact, there is much to be done, and for the speed with which the compensation is paid. I would also like a comment on what will happen with this year's and more effective operation, because there are malfunctions there too. But would we throw this model that works for so many years and say that 'I now bring private insurance companies to profit'? It is no coincidence, Minister, that at the level of the premiums until now only 1% of Greek insurance production is involved in the private insurance sector. What has changed from the situation so far to your own days that the remaining 99% will be covered by private insurance companies? I asked you a specific question. What risks will you cover through the participation of private insurance companies and at what cost, Minister, for farmers, with what premiums? As I said before, there is public and compulsory insurance in the ELGA and it is done at the same time and with the statement of the IACS - you know it very well - and that is why the ELGA was collected in previous years. Will you dictate to them to pay additional premiums to cover - I imagine on a voluntary basis - from private insurance companies? As you can see, producers' finances are very limited. Answers to these questions, therefore, Minister. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As you know, for de minimis, we had the opportunity to discuss together on the occasion of another timely question that I made to you here in Parliament. I referred to this on the occasion of today's question because of the current nature of the news. In any case, however, I will ask you, by closing my intervention, to see the issue of the payment of de minimis subsidies and of the producers of the compact peaches. I told you that injustice was clear. In this case, too, when we have a similar phenomenon, it is dealt with by different means.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u38	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u39	This exception is not justified by the scientific facts and facts of this year, which led to the payment, Minister, of de minimis allowances to table and nectarines. I would agree with you that the policy of de minimis is an extraordinary policy, which should not be the main policy of the Ministry of Rural Development. But we expect to see what is the main policy of the Ministry of Rural Development on your days.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, the Members of Parliament, Mr Constantine Tsiaras, Mr Theophilos Lionides and Mrs Maria - Alexandra Kephas, request a short-day absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u41	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. We continue with the debate on the topical and urgent question. Mr. Voridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u42	So, in order to reach agreement here, my colleague, you agree that there is a problem, which you have handed us over. You agree that the previous government, which you supported, has done nothing to solve the problem. That, not only, it has done nothing, that it was also fooling Parliament and the producers, pretending that there is a proportionate study, which is nonexistent. We agreed on that. Now let's go further. We also agree on economic data. If we stay on these financial data, because magically they are not done and there are no more lies that we can tell the people because they have a bitter experience of these lies, two things I can do. Note the parallel requests made to address: First. To include more damages to the ELGA regulation, so to increase the cost of compensation. Secondly, that is requested. To pay faster. This is cash, but it is right and procedural. Third. To be given advances if that is not the case. So that is what is being asked of the world of production and that there should also be an internal distribution. Why? Because there are productive branches that pay a premium and do not take losses and there are productive branches that pay a premium and reach 10% of all losses. So that's what needs to be handled. What do you think? How are we going to deal with them within the public body? Two possibilities we have, they don't make magical. Either you increase the premium or you'll have the state budget to pay - which also raises many issues under competition law - or you'll have damages - no, you'll have damages - to bring the budget to balance. But magically they don't happen, that's what your government didn't want to face.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u43	What are you going to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u44	I'll come to what I'll do. What am I doing? I say that I will open up to this reality - and I am opening up - a dialogue with the private insurance market. And I've opened him up. And to tell you the truth, that is something - to be very familiar again - that we have said in the election. It is one of the four key points developed by Kyriakos Mitsotakis in his election programme - that is, what? - the participation of private insurance in the field of cover for agricultural losses. So it was clear, it was on our schedule, it was approved. There's no surprise, there's no inconsistency. It's very clean.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u45	No one blames you for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u46	Be careful, however: I want to tell you why this is happening. Because the main idea is to have a model of cooperation - for which I have requested time to present it to you by June 2020, after discussions with the insurance companies - which will address these issues. You say, "But, how will it be? They come in for the profit. How is it possible, when only 1% are involved?" But they're only 1% involved, because there's compulsory insurance in the ELGA that gets 4%, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u47	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u48	So what I am interested in - perhaps not you because you have another ideological approach to the question of the relationship between state and the provision of services and the final provision of service to the producer - is this relationship between the private and public authorities to ultimately provide a package that responds to them. Otherwise - you know - the solution to increase the insurance contribution to farmers is very easy. If it were, I'd have done it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u49	So you're going to abolish your obligation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u50	Like the solution to remove damage from the regulation is also very easy. If it were, I'd also have done it. I don't want to do either. I want to build a mixture and present it, in which the private insurance relationship with the public insurance relationship, in the end, will deal with the problems you inherited us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u51	We move to the fifth under number 331/17-12-2019 on a topical question by the President of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "To compensate the affected oil producers for the intensely recent quartzing in Heraklion". Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the fact that the previous period was not the best for the ELGA clearly and does not give you the right to go into choices that will lead either to a further burden on farmers or to insecurity, which may possibly apply, if there is no public sector network, such that is competitive and at the same time can contribute to being privately better and safe. What do I mean? The ELGA with a reform, I call it a "phase"...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u53	Now you're not talking about your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u54	Yeah, I'm talking about the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u55	Oh, because I heard you'd associate it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u56	Yeah, it's the same thing. The first phase of the reform that took place in 2010 made finances clear, took off ELGA from the customer system - with the exceptional decision taken by the Agriculture Ministers and sharing money - and put it under competitive insurance, but at the same time, it also gave a security to the producer himself. It needs a second phase of reforms in ELGA. The second phase must of course take into account the environmental crisis and the adaptation to climate change, which, due to the intense and escalating changes that have caused enormous problems. Of course, it may also be put into the market at risk, on the basis of the regulations which apply to basic products with threshold prices and which ensure a minimum income for the producer. This could be a strong basis for making an opening to the private sector. If you move on to opening up the private sector without shielding the ELGA, things will be dramatic. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So we have the example of Heraklion. For three years now, I have told you with two questions that the problem is about the irresponsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development, particularly of the political leadership, and I am not talking about the workers and officials of the Ministry, who have not paid any attention to their obligation on olive cultivation. So we had this negative result. You came and legislated - and well - in July was the first legislature, how you would change this system. Yes, there are responsibilities. However, because there is also a reduction in producers' incomes, something has to be done with the dossier for the previous years. As far as the current damage is concerned, there is some satisfaction with the announcements in Heraklion. And I say "some" because people don't know exactly how the content of your good words is translated. Recent quarantine caused the damage. What the lack of a good plant protection system has not destroyed in previous years, what has not been destroyed by quarantine, storms and so forth, has come the last quarantine and has finished it. I would therefore like to know whether we have an overall picture of the damages that have been done so far, or whether you intend, following the direct announcement made by producers to examine the whole issue, so that we can see together the various financial instruments for compensation, in addition to the 'de minimis' already announced by the ELGA for inhabited production, there may be other sources of compensation. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u57	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u58	I come to the specific point which Mr Pángalos has raised towards the end, which concerns quartz-laundering on 12-12-2019. So there have been forty-eight reports of damage on this, and there is still statements to be made, which will run until 27 December. Now, at the moment we are talking, fifty-five statements have been made. The damages are found mainly in the Municipality of Archanes - Asterousia and Faistos. With regard to the procedure, the full procedure will be followed which you know and which will be fully compensated for in this respect, that is, what ELGA covers, because this is precisely where we are damaged by the cause of the ELGA. This will obviously be combined with the compensation for the hail in November 2019 from which there have also been significant damages in the region. In order to strengthen the work in the compensation direction, in addition to the seventeen geotechnics carrying out relevant checks, there will be 15 other geotechnics assistance for the timely completion of assessments. In this set of estimates, obviously, what I have said is that the assistance more widely of the project through the ELGA of the special committee set up to deal with the other section we have said needs to be investigated. In other words, we need to explore the causes of our great insult to crops, but also to the climate phenomena that have existed in the region, in order to see whether the claim that in the end there is a significant impact of the climate on the damage that has occurred to the olive oil industry in Crete is founded. Therefore, the step of ELGA has been strengthened. This is obviously about damage to quarantine. I say to you that the directive is to give priority to damage caused by quarantine, because these are damages which go directly to the ELGA compensation procedure and will be fully covered and, of course, also to assist the work of the committee, which has been set up, to see what is happening with the other damages which have occurred.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, I will be extremely brief. Of course, the classical procedure and the obligation of the ELGA goes ahead. There is no doubt about that. What I ask you, Minister, is on the grounds of the insolvency that has taken place in the past time on the part of the state, which has also been expressed in false assurances that there is a dossier, that a dossier has been submitted to the European Union and that the dossier was empty - there was only the title - which has led to a lack of confidence on the part of the producer. The small number of declarations made is the result of this lack of confidence by producers towards the state and ELGA. I'm afraid so. And what I ask you to do is to best inform the producers of Heraklion, and also Crete as a whole, because there have also been the same phenomena in other regions, that there will be compensation in accordance with the regulations in force and under no circumstances will their statement be turned. That is what I would ask you to start - and to be judged by this too - a new period of producers' confidence in the OGA. You'll be judged. You bet. Of course, for all the other things we have asked and committed one way or another to losing income in previous years. I do not want to go further in order to give a message "go, state those who have been damaged, the ELGA is here and the state will respond this time" Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Voridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u62	In addition, in this direction, I would like to clarify what the restoration of the damage is. It is the cover of the loss of production, the quantitative damage, but also the damage resulting from its qualitative deterioration, but caused by the effect of the loss-making factors covered. So in fact the cover is full when we have covered insurance cause, as in this case with the hail. Of course everyone has to make his statement, and I too urge him to do so, because it is right on the insurance grounds covered. And because you made a little mention of the previous question on the ELGA issue, I will tell you this: Look, Mr Kegeroglu, you know me because we have been in this Chamber for many years. Me, well or bad, I'm not lying. Also, good or bad, I don't have much money for people. What I have to say, I say, and I speak in a clear way to people at all times. Perhaps that is why the words are counted and perhaps they are not many and many times and are not satisfied, because everyone wants more. What I can say, that's what I'm saying. What I commit to, that is what I will do. I don't commit to things I won't do. And let me tell you something else: I'd rather do something more because I'd be able to do it without having set it up, and without having said it, rather than saying something more, and then coming up to explain why and how it couldn't be done. This story with ELGA - bad lies - is right at the level of the producers' deception all this time, because against the producers' request for what I mentioned earlier, precisely because there was no chance of the previous government giving a real solution, there was an amazing trick: "We are preparing the proportionate study, we are waiting for the proportionate study". And to have a good question, what exactly do we expect this proportionate study to give us? Two minutes to get in touch, because I'm the one with the numbers. The analogy study will give precise reasons why this damage is caused. So he'll tell us that they took a lot of peaches and took a few farmers. He'll tell us that in that area we have more damage to the other fewer. The real issue of damage, however, must be dealt with, regardless of the specific way in which it is to be dealt with, just how they intend to deal with it? That's what we get. That's what I have to deal with, and that's what I have to give. That's what we're gonna fight. And I say again that I certainly never said that ELGA would not have a role as a public body providing agricultural insurance. I said that we also need to involve private insurance in order to see the exact way in which we will build a more comprehensive system that meets the expectations of producers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u63	You have analysed this in great detail.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u65	And from what I understand, you too endorse Mr Kegeroglu's call for applications. Good. We move to the first with number 326/16-12-2019 in the first cycle of the Member of the West Attica Radical Left Coalition, Georgiou Tsipras, on the subject: "Financial aid for flooding in Kineta with care for secondary residences". The Deputy Minister of Home Affairs, Mr. Theodoros Lebanon, will answer. Mr. Tsipras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, knowing your responsibilities, and without any doubt what I will say to downgrade the appreciation on your face - you are also from the wider region of Western Attica - I hope Mr Theodorikos' absence does not mean a deterioration in the subject. After the storm of “Girion” of 25 November 2019, in the Kinita area of Kinita at least three hundred homes have suffered incalculable damage. Several of these dwellings are secondary and in several cases owners have suffered irreparable financial damage, as I personally found out on repeated visits to the area. In order not to expand in detail, there are two different ministerial decisions from the previous government. One is May 2019. On the basis of the experience gained from multiple natural disasters that are more frequent today and which result most frequently in disasters for people, property and infrastructure, this ministerial decision covered fixed compensation needs, the so-called ‘direct aid’. But there was a previous Ministerial Decision of 2017, 4155/2017, which provided for exceptional aid of a much higher amount, in the case in point for eight areas suffering multiple flooding, i.e. municipalities in any case, and therefore compensation and restorations related to the Kineta issue are related to both these two ministerial decisions, namely the fixed coverage of compensation needs and the exceptional aid. In Kineta, which suffered the greatest blow on November 25, 2019, as any other special and exceptional instances of destruction, special allowances should certainly be provided for, as was the case with the 2017 Kineta, which covered secondary residences in Mandra Attica and other areas. So we have two questions. The second is when compensation is to be granted, and the first question condensates at the same time three issues: the establishment, let us say, of aid in the event of natural disasters, the emergency aid which is in great need because of the very great damage and destruction and, above all, the issue of secondary residence. It's about 80% of houses secondary residences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u67	So when we say secondary, we mean cottage.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u68	Yes, but it is a special case, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u69	Mr Lebanese has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Tsipras, let me tell you that the Minister's absence obviously does not mean a deterioration in the matter. At least, this government, as long as I have been following this House, I think it is consistent with its parliamentary duties and, in particular, with parliamentary scrutiny. On the substance, you referred to two ministerial decisions, the first of which was adopted in 2017 and was, if I am not mistaken, ten days after the disasters and floods in Mandra, where more than twenty people lost their lives and which, because of its location, was signed by the Minister of Infrastructure and the Minister of Finance. So you are addressing a question to the Ministry of Interior which does not have competence. And it has no competence, because the process of secondary residences, as the history of 2017, has shown, is the responsibility of the two other ministries. The decision was signed by Mr Spirtzis, Minister of Infrastructure, and Mr Juliarakis, Deputy Minister of Finance. As regards the Kineta issue, in fact the May 2019 decision of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is a decision that is obviously in the right direction and is used primarily to record losses incurred in construction. What does this procedure say? You set up a three-member committee, visit, record the damage and there is a month time limit from the date of the natural disaster until the applications are submitted. These applications are completed at the end of December, I think on the 27th December following the disaster, and once it has been completed, we will obviously also proceed immediately to the restoration and payment of the beneficiaries. In fact, let me tell you that, in cooperation with the Ministry of Digital Governance, we are moving a step further, in the electronicisation of the request for natural disasters, which is very important, because it will make it easier for the affected. In any case, however, you are giving me the opportunity to tell you one thing. Because I have lived all over the region and I know it, unfortunately after the fire of 2018, which took place on the same day as the tragic event in Matti, we did not go as far as we needed the restoration work. It is known that where there is a fire the same area is in danger immediately after flooding. I am sorry to say this, but the responsibility for this was mainly at first instance in the previous government, which did not start the necessary projects and was the result of the disasters in November. But what must be done, regardless of who is to blame and who is not to blame, is to solve a question of protecting people's property and lives. From what the Civil Protection had informed me that day, it was completely marginal to mourning and human lives from the flood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u71	Mr Tsipras - for the Minutes, Mr Georgios Tsipras, in order not to be confused - you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all, you have not answered when compensation will be granted. It is the most urgent issue and on which there is absolutely no answer. Secondly, with regard to the 2019 CSR, this is a decision by the Interior Minister - I address you - and the Finance Minister. On the basis of this record, the emergency aid, which is much higher than it was. There is a letter to MegaraTV sent by the Kineta floods, which reads: "From the five hundred houses destroyed, less than 20% are permanent dwellings, in the tax sense, as most of them belong to the inhabitants of the Great and are inhabited almost half the days of the year. They belong to our families, which are characterized as secondary dwellings and believe us, they have not been destroyed less than the masters have nor affected us less. These houses are used all year round by all our family members and while we wait day for the announcement of allowances including secondary dwellings, two weeks have passed and we have heard nothing at all. After the fires in 2018, the reaction was immediate and reassuring for those who destroyed the property. But the same thing has not happened this year. Is the scene less tragic? Hasn't he played too much in the media? Aren't we an editable electoral force? Does it show a turn of government to a less social state? I don't live in the last. In reply to the previous disasters, of course, are the anti-military works carried out at a speed in Mandra, after we have mourned for many times over the last forty years. I ask again two questions: when - you did not answer me - whether there would be emergency aid and when the immediate aid would be provided. And let me add this because I have to report it. On my last visit, after the question had been tabled, I found that there is only one excavating machine, one teaspoon, to clear the stream of Piccas. The stream of Pikas has been blocked by the recent flood and thus to possible new storm and flood the catastrophic effects may be much larger. It is also the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior - as it is a responsibility to the authority of the Attica Region - to address the issue immediately so that we do not mourn much greater disasters, perhaps also human victims next time. Last thing I'm gonna say is this. The wider region after the fires were destroyed last year obviously has completely other anti-military needs. Even Olympia Street was built on other technical terms, because we did not know that it would burn the forest, the mountain on top. This is not about the Ministry of Interior, but I say that there is urgency in the whole process, as was the case with Mandra. In other words, we have a series of problems that have come to be added to the constant problems of the Kineta people because of the particular nature of the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u73	It is known in this House that from the top Western theories we attend our meeting of twenty-nine students and students and three teachers attending from the Galatian High School and Gymnasium Annex Eratyr Kozanis. Welcome to the House. Have fun. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. So the May 2019 decision says what? Article 1: the one-off grant of a first livelihood allowance of EUR 600 to each household whose principal residence is...’. This decision is progressing normally.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u75	But they haven't been compensated.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u76	Article 5: the application shall be submitted not later than one month after the natural disaster. He hasn't booked a month yet. When applications are still made how do we do it, shall we, as a precautionary measure, go ahead with the people? Compensation will go ahead. I told you that it was a proper decision, which is now always progressing in all cases of natural disasters, and obviously as soon as the demands are made, the municipality is sending them to the Ministry of the Interior and from the OSCE 045 is going ahead with compensation and those affected. So, in the part concerning the Ministry of the Interior, everything has been done and the matter is being monitored anyway. You referred to anti-milling. We agree that anti-military needs have now changed. All relevant services must be mobilised immediately to make the necessary adjustments. I am able to know and I myself have seen it, the Attica Region is close and is moving on to the restoration and, in particular, to the cleansing of the ravages. We are in cooperation with both the District Director of Attica and the Vice-President of the West Attica, so that, with the cooperation of everyone, the liquidation of the current from the balls can also be avoided in order to avoid such a disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u77	Minister, because I am obliged to clarify the answers - that is also the role of the President-in-Office - I understood that you told Mr Tsipras that once the concept of paragraph 5 of the Joint Ministerial Decision has been completed, immediately the amount referred to in paragraph 1 will be paid.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u78	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u79	It is therefore a matter of a few days in order to complete paragraph 5. And it is good to push a little, where there is possibly a delay - I do not know - the regions running a little bit of work.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u80	The second residence is not covered so, 80%...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u81	It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u82	He told you on the other hand that you should ask one of the other Ministers, whether Mr Karamanlis or Mr Staikoura, to answer the second part of your question. He told you that in his protology. We're on our way to the end. The following are two topical questions, the fourth with number 330/17-12-2019, a topical question for the Second Cycle of the Heraklion Movement, Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the subject: ‘Submitty of State to support children with disabilities’, and the second with number 328/17-12-2019, a top-level question for the President of the Heraklion Movement of Change, Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, which will be answered by the Secretary of State, Domna Michalidou, on the subject: ‘Subject to support for children with disabilities’. As these two questions are exactly the same, and this is about the state's obligation to support children with disabilities in parallel, they will be discussed jointly with Mr Kegeroglou. Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes with tolerance, because growth is about the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. There is therefore a need to adapt the Rules of Procedure when one question is addressed to two ministries. So let us come to the point. It concerns parallel support not in formal education, in kindergarten, in primary school, in high school, where it has been regulated by the state for years and which, in accordance with the procedures provided for, is implemented - certainly there are gaps there too, but that is another issue - but it is also a question of parallel support for elementary education and for children and nurseries. In fact, it also concerns the Ministry of Education, because in recent years some kind of childcare facilities have been operating in the framework of compulsory education by the four and in the context of education in certain municipalities. In any case, what happened with recent Law 4647/2019, which was the well-known law with the many amendments made to the bill, was unfortunately negative. The Ministry of Interior recommended that there should be an escort - a supporter, that is to say, parallel support for a disabled child who is at a child's station at the expense of the parent. First of all, it seems positive, because it gives the right to a family to have a teacher, an assistant, a attendant and to support the child with disabilities. It could be said that it is a right that is satisfied. But he has another perspective. Unfortunately, because there has not been a strong institutional function of parallel support, this is privatization, i.e. burden-sharing - so that I do not use the word 'private' because it has many concepts - the child with disabilities. We know very well that where there are disabled children under the programme concerned, this possibility of supporting children is being given. We know that in kindergartens, in primary schools, there is this support. So you should withdraw this provision in this particular respect as it has been introduced. We also voted for this provision, Mr President, and I would like to say it at first, because the fast track procedure with which it came did not even enable us to reach agreement with the WHO, for example, which is the parental movement of children with disabilities, to see the matter further. At second reading, after the vote, when it was not done in the urgent procedure with which it was envisaged, we saw that this was a mistake. We therefore want this provision to be withdrawn and we want to introduce the state's obligation to support both public and private stations and to be in municipal education - they are three categories - since the disabled child is, of course, certified by the CEPOL, so that we can give the essence of the constitutional requirement for equal rights, but above all, to implement the International Convention on Disabled Persons, which the Greek Parliament has ratified and from which our obligation is to support in particular children with disabilities. Mr President, I have addressed the question to both Ministers because they are in their power. Although the regulation seems only to be about primary schools, it is a whole matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u84	So we're starting with Mr. Livano. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u85	Mr Kegeroglu, knowing your personal sensitivity to this issue, I think this is one - to say it elegantly - of misunderstanding. What did we come here to legislate? We had a request from a number of mayors who host children who need special care at primary school. What's the problem? These children are usually accompanied by a person of family confidence, by a person who is familiar with the child, but who, at least the time we are discussing in December, was not able to be with the child and take care of it in his increased needs. So, to solve this - if you like - firearms for the current year, because that has obviously not happened in recent years, we wanted to move on with a provision which enables the partner who is chosen by the family to attend and care for the child. We therefore give the opportunity to be in the room and to try to help him, so that life can be better for the rest of the children who are hosted at the nurseries, but also for the child who needs special care. Obviously, we are not talking about privatization or weight transfer. What we need to see in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and the Minister present, Mrs Michalidou, is how to resolve this need with an additional voucher. Recruitment could not be done in such cases in the school year. Planning has been done and you know it better than I do. What we did was give a chance - if you want firearms, medium-sized - so that the device can be smooth.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u86	When you said "current year", do you mean current school year?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u87	Yes, the current school year, that is, 2019-2020. That is why this provision came in the urgent bill in order not to waste more time than the school year, because the next legislative procedure, at least from the Ministry of the Interior, as planned, is around mid-January. So that was the essence of the arrangement. That's what we did. If you want there was a request from several mayors and from the children's stations, some of whom were from the Region of Crete and who were faced with this problem. Obviously the Ministry showed the sensitivity and reflexes to satisfy this request, although it was neither the complete nor the perfect solution, obviously for the reasons I explained earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u88	The Foreign Minister, Mrs Michailidou, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u89	Thank you. Mr Kegeroglu, I should like to say frankly that I am now waiting for a week for our appointment to Parliament, since you are extremely consistent with the exercise of parliamentary control. As the Minister said, this provision is the result of substantial consultation with some municipalities and private nursery owners, which is purely subsidiary and not to transfer public burdens to the private sector. This article by Law 4647 in no way shows the state's intention to dismantle and dismiss its real commitment and obligation to help children and families with disabilities in terms of their creative activities. Support for children with disabilities is a high priority for the government of my Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and of course the Ministry of Interior. This was seen in a series of measures that we have already taken. We have not only taken these measures because of the ratification of the United Nations Convention for so many years now. These measures - and I speak very specifically of the social dividend, which we give very specifically and very targetedly and in response to your question last week, without income and age criteria for families with disabilities, but also the exclusion of families with disabilities from the solidarity levy - are two very specific measures which we have taken, precisely to serve this direction and because we believe very much in this. More specifically, in terms of the policies of the Ministry of Labour, they are policies which it has designed and implemented - and you have referred to them - for the creative employment of children. Over there there are two regulatory frameworks: One is the one of the Creative Employment Centres for Disabled Children, i.e. the CSRs - ACs which operate in too many municipalities, and the second is the regulatory framework which provides for the possibility of setting up and operating integrated care facilities, the so-called BSOPs, by municipal enterprises under Article Municipal Enterprises, Associations of Municipal Enterprises and Entities of non-profit character. There we are in discussion with the Minister responsible, to see what more motivation we can give. But until then, what we have to say is that under no circumstances has this provision come to replace the role of the public authorities, but it has come as an alternative, to enable families to take their own staff, a request from municipalities and civil society for some time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u90	I think the answers coincide with Mr Kegeroglu's thinking. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I did not see the substance of this provision from the outset. Look, there's a lot of side effects on this device. While, from the outset, it seems easy for families who have a disability child to go to the nursery, it has many side effects. It's not just financial. The person who will find himself in a kindergarten in order to support a disabled child must first have a certificate of special treatment. So how can it be just the trust and environment of the family? He must have the certification. I'm only saying that, for example, to see that rules have to be in place. The same rules apply to primary education, that is to say kindergarten and primary school. What do I suggest? Because you will notice, Mr President, from all three questions today and every day that we control the government, but at the same time we also have a creative opposition proposing things. I don't just ask, I suggest. They can both Ministries, in cooperation with both education, directly, on the basis of an authorizing provision, if there is no, the three of you to see specific rules. Voucher is a simple, simple way, you said, Mr Levanje, in order that there will be parallel support with a certified person, who will be, if you like, the choice of the family or the competent body, but certified.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u92	It must be family anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u93	At the same time, however, certified by the competent body, namely that it is for special treatment. You can see this immediately, I believe, in the middle of the year, in order to enable other children to join. It doesn't have to be the disabled children's specialty. It can also work at the general child service, with a reform probably of the institutional framework at this point, as an integrated care provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u94	Depends on the type of disability. The doctor's talking now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u95	It's always up to me, and that's why I'm saying the expert has to exist. Of course, it also works in municipal education, which speaks of the need to exist or not. If there is no need to exist, it can be seen from the disability rates and from the opinion of the diagnostic centre, which operates in each county, in each regional section, based on municipal education. So we also voted for it, as I said, obviously good faith in the fact that we are making it easier for things, but you must immediately have a dialogue with PUGEA, which is the most competent body, but also with the other scientific bodies close to the Ministries, to see how exactly a joint ministerial decision - the Ministries of Education, Labour and Interior - must identify parallel support for children and nurseries. That is what I would ask you to do, and I would like you to make a commitment that you will immediately proceed to this cooperation in order to provide solutions. Our role here is to control you, suggest you and help to resolve society's problems. That is what we are doing, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u96	Before I give the floor to the two State Secretarys, I will tell you what I understood, to take them into account in your reply. Firstly, I understood that what was voted on is a temporary solution for the reasons you said. Secondly, in the details that Mr Kegeroglu has mentioned, there is the definitive solution. I would therefore suggest that you, in the two Ministries, first of all take the initiative, after you have a preliminary draft, invite the representatives of all the parties, a representative of each party, to present it, and then call on the institutions, which Mr Kegeroglu said, to present as a joint proposal. I believe that it will be a common or large majority. And within the current school year the matter has been permanently closed. Mr Levanie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. I do not doubt, Mr Kegeroglu, that your question has a good faith or that the way you are trying to contribute positively to solving problems, which, after all, you know them, has shredded the Ministry of Labour himself. I don't have much to say. It is the new school year that we have a problem solved, which was a long time ago, and it was a problem that made life harder for families and families, but it was difficult for the staff of the kindergartens, who did not have the special knowledge and familiarity to handle some such specific cases. Our concern and as a government is great, it is truly vibrant and true, and we will obviously have a consultation immediately, in view of the training and planning in the programme and the “voucher” for the new school year - well or badly it is six months, seven months now, it is not too long - in order to solve this problem as well. There are also institutionalised bodies, which obviously also have the personal interest of their members and the know-how to contribute to a definitive solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, I am sorry, I forgot to wish, because it is my last place for the year in this House, good holidays all over the world and, above all, to have a peaceful new year, which concerns us in particular as a country. Minister, look again at the issue of disabled people in the social dividend, because we have a lot of protests - I have not seen it myself - but we have many protests that an income limit has been introduced and that is why they come out of dividends. Look at it, I haven't seen it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u99	Mrs. Michaelidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. That is not true of the income limit. There were some technical problems on the platform yesterday, which was the first day I think. We have the assurance from the Treasury and the HICP that this thing will roll and run. As the Minister said before - and to return the debate to the provision of 4647 - this measure, if you like, came almost firearms. Why? To ensure that children, especially children with disabilities, will not be able to go to nurseries in the current school year, since the law and regulatory framework does not leave their presence without any staff. So what do we do? Your proposal is certainly in the right direction. I had a meeting with PAOKA again yesterday. What we can put on the table, at our next meeting with them, is how we ensure that when there is no CPMD and there is a family that wants to send, and of course we want the child not to be at home, we want the child to be socialised, and when, as the President rightly says, the disability rate is not forbidden, he can go to a nursery station, which has a conventional infrastructure, to be able with a staff assistant of the choice of the same family, but also certified with a circular, in which we will be, as we want to, in a debate with the competent body and as you rightly said the competent body is the Panhellenic Federation of Parents with Disability, to see how we are doing at this stage. But - and I think we all agree - this provision was necessary to ensure that in this school year children can go to a nursery station and not stay at home. I'll wish good holidays too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. As you will see me on January 7th, I would like to wish good Christmas and good New Year for the employees of the Parliament, my fellow Members, the parliamentary authors and the children of EL.AS. We're being watched. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-19-S1-commons.u102	With the agreement of the House at 11.35 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 20 December 2019, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
