ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 15-05-2019 authorisation, the minutes of the PLAC's PRAC sessions, of Wednesday 15 May 2019, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: "Consolidation of debts to Social Security Bodies, Tax Administration and O.T.A. (a) Degree, Pension regulations and other insurance and pension provisions, strengthening of the protection of workers and other provisions.’]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Parliament's decisions: debate and vote, in accordance with Rule 76 of the Constitution and Rule 118 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, on the proposal by the President of Parliament: 'To amend provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Party of Parliament (Law 106 A-246/87), as applicable'. The debate is under the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to this proposal. The proposal by the President of Parliament was accepted by a large majority of the members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, I will ask who wants the floor. As far as I can see. The debate is therefore adjourned at the outset and under the sole article of the proposal by the President of the Parliament: "To amend the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Party of Parliament (PEP 106 I-24-87), as is the case" and their vote will be taken separately. Does this House accept the proposal in principle?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u2	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u3	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u4	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u5	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u6	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u7	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u8	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u9	Consequently, the proposal by the President of Parliament: "To amend provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Part Parliamentary Party (PES 106 I 224-6 1987), as in force, was accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the article alone. Does the House agree that the only article in the proposal is accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u10	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u11	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u12	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u13	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u14	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u15	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u16	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u17	The only article of the proposal was accepted as it is majority. Consequently, the proposal by the President of Parliament: "To amend provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Part Parliamentary Party (FO 106 A 224-6 1987), as applicable", was accepted in principle and under Rule alone. We shall now vote on the proposal as a whole. Does this House also accept the proposal as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u18	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u19	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u20	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u21	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u22	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u23	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u24	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u25	The proposal was accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the proposal by the President of Parliament: "In order to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Party (PES 106a-24-86), as applicable", was accepted by a majority in principle, the article alone and in whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as regards the vote on the above motion by the President of this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u27	The House has given the mandate requested.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 1. 'Decision of the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Northern Macedonia on the establishment of a border crossing point in the region of Prespa Lake and other provisions', and 2. "Following the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Northern Macedonia on the establishment of a new border crossing point between the two countries, which will link the Promachus, the Hellenic Republic and Majden in the Republic of Northern Macedonia". The draft law was adopted in the Standing Committee by a majority. They are imported into Parliament under the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of these agreements. We therefore propose that a single debate should be held on these agreements in order to take the floor for five minutes. Do you agree with this process?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u29	The House has agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u30	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u31	I'm asking about the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u32	Yeah, for the process. I believe there must be a tolerance from you, from the Bureau, because in essence there are two sanctions for debate and maybe five minutes is not enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u33	I'll have a tolerability anyway, I always have. So the House has agreed on the procedure to be followed. I therefore go to the main question: who wants to speak? Let me inform you that in the committee, SYRIZA voted 'in favour', the New Democracy 'against', the Democratic Reconciliation was reserved, the Golden Dawn 'against', the CEEC'residents', the Potami 'per', the Centron Union was absent. As a result, the two who voted 'in favour' will certainly have the floor, as will those who have voted for reservation or'residence'. So let's start with the New Democracy. Mr. Kumoucasakos has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u34	Where's the government? Isn't there a Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u35	The Minister will be here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u36	Madam President, without the Minister without the appropriate representative of the government, how are we going to have a debate? We'll wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u37	That's a typical problem. Mr. Pappas from the Golden Dawn doesn't want to wait, so we're going with Mr. Pappas. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u38	We're used to it and empty the ministerial benches to talk. The New Democracy insists on having its own alter ego in the ministerial headquarters. In the committee yesterday Elias Kashiri stressed the unique national line expressed by the Golden Dawn along with the overwhelming majority of the Greek people. In other words, there is no "North Macedonia" state called "North Macedonia". No Greek recognizes this state entity under this name. To talk, to speak in this House, and much more to vote for legislation and sanctions where this term is officially stated is a sign of the misery of political life in Greece, it is an assignment of our national sovereignty, a betrayal against our history and our name, the sacred name of our Macedonia. I am thinking of specific points of ratification, for the Greek people to understand, in particular, the size of national risks and the damage caused by the derivative of the Prespecies Agreement, which is also the ratification under discussion. The whole story therefore plays a central role in Article 14, namely paragraph 6 of our Prespecies Agreement. I say this because the New Democracy will respect the betrayal, as it respects and honors the struggles on the left. Paragraph 6, therefore, refers to the technical issue of crossing crossing points, namely paragraph 6 of the contested Article 14, reads what I read: ‘The Parties shall seek to improve and modernise the existing crossing crossing points, as required by the flow of movements, and shall seek to build new crossing crossing points with a view to strengthening their tourist and commercial flows’. It is therefore clear that ratification is nothing but the agreement itself. Today we are voting again in the Chamber on this appalling and treacherous Prespecies Agreement. We clearly have the undermining of our national sovereignty and independence by means of a sharing regime - to say so - or to take advantage of the Greek benefits, that is, the respective sectors between Greece and Skopje. This is therefore the principle of the practice of fragmenting and fragmenting the situation of Greek national sovereignty, initially through the liberation of the sceptic in energy, the economy, trade and transport, as I said a moment ago. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Can you rest in New Democracy for a while? I'm very worried about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u39	Welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u40	You're welcome, Mr. Kumucaco. Congratulations may be said more slowly, because there is a speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u41	Is it a bad thing we said "welcome"? We won't tell you, but the government can.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u42	You are not saying to us "welcome", but to the government you are saying. You're ready for the big coalition. Dendias has shown the way. So welcome, Minister. You are now putting the European Union, by this unscrupulous ratification, to perpetuate the region and to face up to the challenge of exercising and safeguarding Greek sovereign rights. Skopje seeks through the agreement to gain effective access to the Aegean Sea. With the ratification of flesh and bones the vision of Tito, that is, exit to the Aegean. Ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the ratification being discussed is to establish a new border crossing. This is the first technological, preparatory action for the entry into force of the agreement, which is aimed at undermining the Greek economy and national sovereignty in the short term, so that the Greek factor plus the time is fragmented along with its territorial integrity. Madam President, I will need two minutes to deal with a major national issue, which also relates to the committee, which discussed the ratification to be discussed yesterday and, above all, to hear from the Greek people that the New Democracy, according to accurate information, was put today at the meeting of the Greek Parliament's Ethics Committee on Ethics on a joint line with SYRIZA, and not only, but also with the rest of the 'democratic arch' in favour of not lifting the immunity of MP Nikolaos Philys. The order, for those who do not know, of the lifting of Mr. Friend's immunity was made by the Prosecutor of the Ice Arrow and related to his criminal prosecution, criminal prosecution by the SYRIZA MP, for his placements on television stations, which supported the positions of Albanian killers against the memory of the nationalist Constantine Katsifa. With his ethnically neutralist speech, Philis, who is the same and unparalleled as the whole of the Left, committed the offense of the memory of the Albanians who were executed by Constantine Katsifa, even at a time when the body of the ethnic witness was expressed by the organs of the resurrected Albanian regime arbitrarily and who had refused to hand it over to his relatives. The Philadelphia case - and I shall end, Madam President - has come to the Greek Parliament following a complaint from the happy parents of Constantine Katsifa. The pseudo-patriotic and equally nationalistic, in fact, and dangerous death in New Democracy was written with SYRIZA and the rest of the democratic arc. Greek people, New Democracy has asked for Phile's parliamentary immunity not to be lifted and this is the official position of the New Democracy party and this is officially recommended by the New Democracy. And I say this so that tomorrow, when the vote is taken, there will be no one who will be differentiated for micro-party reasons. It does not change the political substance of the New Democracy's vulnerability. It does not change the treasonal attitude of the neoliberal New Democracy, the New Democracy of the NGOs, the "Kourides" and the "Tatsopoulos". It should be noted that in the law on which the New Democracy does not want to be examined by Greek justice and Philis to benefit from the parliamentary privileges of parliamentary immunity, he is proposed as the first witness to a pharmacist, a state of the New Democracy and a professional voter for the North-East of Greece. This is another demonstration of the bishop, the old-fashioned and mockery of the New Democracy to the Northcontinental and the Northcontinental Hellenism. The Golden Dawn, holding up the flag of the vindication of Hellenism, the flag of Northern Epirus and honoring in this way the memory of the nationalist Constantine Katsifa, was the only political force that, for reasons not just political, but also for reasons of substance and moral order, voted in favour of the lifting of immunity of the nationalist and the hybrid of hero Katsifa Nikolaos Friends. The question that is being asked and closed: What else can self-sufficient patriots expect from the party of treason and subjection, namely New Democracy, the pistachios, the nickname of the natives? What else can they wait to turn her back?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u43	Mr Koumoutsakou from New Democracy has the floor for five minutes, with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u44	Minister, when I saw you were gone, I had the impression that you were in a hurry, while the elections were at 26. I thought you left before there was an election. Well, welcome back to listen to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u45	I'm not leaving, Mr. Kumucaco, ever.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate, which concerns two agreements on sanctions that bring to the Greek Parliament, is taking place in a specific environment of national developments, geopolitical developments in our wider region, in the Eastern Mediterranean and in the Aegean Sea. This is the real theme in society right now. And when we talk about a foreign policy issue, we cannot close our eyes on what is happening. After all, Turkey's major military exercise is under way, the 'Sealyn' exercise, which confirms that Turkey has been caught in a strategy of tension. Because, at the same time, it has been excluded from positive energy developments in the Eastern Mediterranean. He was self-evident because he does not want to apply international law, because he does not want to recognise the Republic of Cyprus, because he has problems with all its neighbours. And because it has been self-exclusion, it has also been entangled in a string of constant tension, evolving into a factor of instability, uncertainty and dangerous tension in the Eastern Mediterranean. It is therefore an opportunity, here in the Greek Parliament, to send out some clear messages to the other side, but, as you will see, to the government. First of all, to Ankara: the electoral internal party opposition in our country will not be misinterpreted. Against any challenge and any threat, they will find united Greeks and Hellenism. And if they think with these exercises they'll scare us, they're making a huge mistake. They will scare us from the strength of our national unity to their challenges. They have not understood what power the unity of the Greeks hides, so they should not play with fire. This message comes from that part of the country that believes that national unity is Greece's strongest national power factor. That is why this section is valuable and I am sorry to say that the government has been dealing with all these years, not with the first concern of safeguarding national unity, but with the first concern of undermining the division on all issues, so that it can benefit partisanly. It is now time for the government to abandon the biscuiting polarisation it has chosen for the sake of the election campaign, which will, in any case, lose. It is therefore just as serious as this message with one more, and this is only about the government. It was something that we mentioned and I personally mentioned immediately after the National Foreign Policy Council of 22 February. The government at the moment of its return, now that the countdown is moving at speed and its exit is specified, cannot make decisions on major national issues. It cannot go into commitments, actions and decisions on critical aspects of our national issues. So, in institutional terms, I say this in the name of knowledge, from the Step of the House, on behalf of the Officerial Representation, and I would like to point out to you, and I warn you, that you will not proceed to decisions which will bind the country just before you leave power. Don't do it! And you know very well what I'm talking about. Foreign policy is not an area of impression, and indeed, when the context has the characteristics of the intensity of the present. Don't do it! You know that I am referring mainly to your thinking, which is in the press, leaked or notified, concerning some of the actions that you are considering in relation to the Ionian Sea, but also beyond the Ionian Sea. It's leaks you haven't been disproved. So we have to repeat this message that I have told you. Don't do it! Because it's not the time to play games. I would like to conclude with one more message on the Eastern Mediterranean issue. Mr Alan Duncan, United Kingdom Minister for European Affairs, made a major challenge, effectively adopting Ankara's views, moving beyond and contrary to the International Maritime Law and the recognition of the Republic of Cyprus as the only state representing the Cypriot people. It's a major manoeuvre. The Cypriot Government and its President, Nikos Anastasiades, have rightly launched clear and substantial responses to these views. As far as the issues that are concerned today are concerned at the plenary session of the Greek Parliament, I had the opportunity yesterday in the committee, Madam President, to point out this. Bilateral relations with Skopje, our northern neighbours, can develop. After all, it's a matter of political will. The institutional framework existed. There was already the interim agreement. I would remind you that there were at least three Memorandums of Cooperation, 'practical measures', which provided for all these movements. You are wrongly linking the development of bilateral relations to the harmful Ambassadors' agreement. Of course, there's a political thing coming in. Why now? What happened five days before the election? I believe, and we believe in the New Democracy, that it is still a political manoeuvre and effort to caging the New Democracy and counterpopulation in what you have always had in mind since you started negotiating on the Prespecies Agreement. The Embassy Agreement is and will remain historically an unstable legalization agreement. The Greeks will never love her. And that's where her great failure lies. While it is intended to regulate a matter of identity, i.e. beliefs, it has 80% of the Greek people across the street. The need to promote bilateral relations with the neighbouring country is present and can be done. It is a question of political will and not of a legal background. As I said, this was also the case with the interim agreement. So because you are seeking more regular handling of caging other political forces, as you have done throughout the negotiation with Skopje, we will not play this game, for many reasons, and we will vote against, as I said yesterday in the Committee on Foreign and Defence Policy of Parliament, the two texts of your ratification today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u47	Mr. Karras has the floor for five minutes from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u48	Madam President, the two sanctions brought to the House by the government create a dilemma, and I can say a great dilemma - on the one hand, because they are based - and, if you like - on the Prespecies Agreement and on the other hand, one is asking questions about whether they are useful for relations between the two neighbours. Of course, the Democratic Association of the Ambassadors did not vote for it. On the contrary, she had full reason in her negative vote. I must remind you that we did not just stand by the name, we stood on language issues, we stood on identity issues. And I remember now, since I am before you, my speech at the respective sitting of the House, at which I asked a question, rhetoric, of course, which has not been answered, at least scientifically, to date, as to whether this agreement is a return-free journey for Greece. It seems, unfortunately, that the journey is without a return, because its text, as we read it at the time, did not have any complaint clauses. Indirectly, he obviously referred to the Vienna Convention on International Conditions. This was, of course, a stricter legal framework for our country, which could not have reserved a right to complaint if the other side did not respect its positions. So we are driving through the Vienna Treaty into an endless procedure, because if the Treaty of Ambassadors is violated, even if the Greek Government considers that there is a valid complaint to annul the agreement, the results of this agreement will remain. They will remain in relation to international law and the international community. So this is a dilemma that returns to the Democratic Incorporation today that is coming to Parliament to ratify the two agreements on opening and operating transit stations. One is through the lake of Prespes, and the other is near the Promachus. This is two different courses. So if we stood in the prehistoric history, we see that there were between the two countries, Skopje and Greece, but these were atypical and they served other times and different situations. Today, of course, after the political change in the Western Balkans - and I must remind you of the dissolution of Yugoslavia, which has taken place violently for our region, in a genuinely violent way, we cannot forget war and, in the form of civilisation and cruelty, which has been followed by the new Slavic countries in the Western Balkans - the dilemma is taking place again and you see our concern in this position. The dilemma is about what matters. Is the relationship between good neighbourlyness among peoples a matter? Because these routes are expanding substantially and further, since the agreements provide for the construction of roads on the one hand and roads on the other. There is a concern that we will come to have better relations, not with the governments - that is not the present one, I do not believe that - but with the peoples. And we think, Madam President, what our position is on this point. First of all, I have to say this. The international round is upset, and that will last for many more years. We see the aggression of the eastern neighbour, we see a great turbulence in the western part of Skopje, in Albania right now, and we do not know how a political or other situation will develop, we see Greece trying to strengthen its position in the Eastern Mediterranean, and we ask this. The Prespecies Agreement took its way? I'm afraid not. It did not take its way because it did not acquire the legitimacy of the majority of the Greek people who question it. And she doesn't question it according to her legal terms, she disputes it with emotion, with the Greek soul. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] All the great leaders of Greece had spoken from their hearts and from their souls that Greek Macedonia is our cell. Today, then, we have already made a retreat with the Prespecies Agreement. We have retreated to a large extent, not the whole of the Greek political world and the whole of the people, but a portion of the people, expressed by the government, which, of course, also during the polls, is in a minority and which, a few days before the elections, brings these two conventions to be ratified. Whatever vote we give has no legitimacy, no recognition from our part of the Presidencies' Agreement. We still regard it as a bad agreement, which has bound the country. On the other hand, however, when relations between peoples are being developed, conditions of economic development are also being created. We cannot rule out from the press that these roads will end up in the north, they may reach and serve even the Slavs of Serbia and the north. So we cannot deny that this will lead to economic growth and the region of northern Greece, which has indeed not been approached, so that we can say that it is at a high level, especially after the crisis. It has always been a agricultural character, a main traditional agricultural and microbitechnic character. With a cold heart, Madam President, with real concern and a cold heart, we will vote for both of these agreements, with the express statement that it does not mean...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u49	But you were telling the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u50	You want to talk about these, Mr. Xydakis? I'm ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u51	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u52	If you want to talk, I'm ready at all times. I don't have a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u53	That is what we have been discussing since 1992. That's acceptable and nice.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u54	Let go of the comments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u55	Twenty-seven years we've been talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u56	You're right. If you want to talk, I'm available at any time and to any extent required. Well, I'm coming back, and I'm closing it, because I think I'm going to change my vote right now, if you think you're gonna have to be ironic.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u57	I'm sarcastic? I said that in committee there was a different suggestion from your resignation. To God!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u58	Is that your impression created?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u59	Come on, Mr. Carras. Nobody's ironing you. I'm protecting you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u60	Madam President, there is a personal issue. To God! Because you know, it is easy to make impressions, because we have not completed the vote. Well, I come back and sum up, regardless of Mr. Xydakis who has used us to such interventions at the bottom. They're not strangers to me. Heavy-heartedly, we are voting on these two conditions, without that means accepting that the Ambassadors' Agreement is legalized. In terms of the Democratic Alliance, it is not legitimate. All our positions, which had been formulated in both debate and society and towards the Greek people, are now being maintained on the basis of the development of the good neighbourhood relationship between the two countries and the economic development of the border regions of Macedonia, which, if these corridors are excluded, will create another disequilibrium at its expense. So I would ask that these be recorded, Madam President. The vote is taken, but it keeps all our concerns and concerns to the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr. Carras. The representative of the JRC has the floor for five minutes with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u62	Madam President, with regard to the ratification of the agreements which we are debating today between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Northern Macedonia, on the establishment of the two border crossing points in the region of Lake Prespa and this in the Pellas, as well as the upgrading of the liaison office to an Embassy of Skopje and the Consulate General Monastery, as we have noted in the committee, the JRC throughout its way is in favour of the friendship and common struggle of the peoples. And from this point of view we are dealing with and dealing with relations with the people of neighbouring Macedonia, and we are working to upgrade these relations, much more so since, today, in the Balkans, there is dangerous mobility, major economic interests conflict, repeated the negative and very dangerous development of border change, intervening its imperialist practice 'divides and reigns', nationalism is exacerbated. The United States of America and NATO are multiplying military bases in the region. The European Union is promoting its own objectives in the region on behalf of European economic groups and, of course, the conflict between the Euro-Atlantic bloc and Russia which also promotes their own economic and geostrategic interests. The friendship, cooperation between the peoples, the common fight against nationalism promoted by the JRC's policy, has nothing to do with the agreements between governments implementing the planning of the urban classes and the imperialist organisations, such as NATO and the European Union. We note this, reminding us that the Communist Party of Greece has welcomed the fact that the People's Agreement - which, in our opinion, does harm to both peoples - is based on the accession of northern Macedonia to NATO and the European Union. The government of the neighbouring country, together with the Greek Government, participate in the implementation of the dangerous objectives of the imperialist organisations in the region. Finally, the JRC has repeatedly raised the issue of the nationality and language of the people of Northern Macedonia, which is also referred to as "Macedonian", despite the fact that it has historically no basis. So, despite the fact that we wish to take advantage of any opportunity to contribute to the development of relations between the two peoples and we could positively address the new border points and upgrade the Skopje Association Office to Embassy in Skopje and the Monastery Consulate General, we are considering the negative consequences of the Euro-Atlantic inspiration - the Embassy Agreement and we will be placed with 'the present'. We also want to note that with regard to upgrading, as mentioned in the relevant texts and modernisation of road and communication networks and tourist development, there are serious gaps in the draft law. The terms and conditions for involving large groups and interests have not been laid down, and in this respect our choice is being strengthened. I would like to say a few words in my time, on the issue that has come up here in the debate on developments in the Eastern Mediterranean. As a Communist Party of Greece what we want to stress is that no one needs any reassurance. On the contrary, the Greek people must be vigilant. The situation in the Eastern Mediterranean is dangerous. The violation of Cyprus's EEZ, Turkey's threats, the exacerbation of Israel's criminal aggression in Palestine, the new tension in the Persian Gulf and increased military mobility by the US confirm this. Turkey's bourgeois government at the moment wants to guarantee, as it says, its own vital interests, which are naturally not at the expense of the sovereignty of other countries, namely the Greek EEZ or the Cypriot EEZ. It constantly lags the aggression, insists on the demilitarisation of the eastern Aegean, "pushes" in an introductory second geotrack in the region and moves on to large-scale exercises. They gradually go de facto to enshrine rights that do not belong to them, and from this point of view it needs vigilance rather than reassuring the Greek people. The celebrations of the urban parties in our country around the issue of the exploitation of hydrocarbons hide the great picture of the intensity and an increase in competition between the urban classes in the region and the energy sizes, which, of course, conflict in the region and lead to interventions and wars. The SYRIZA government is exposed, for it is constantly doing nothing but comforting the Greek people. The Prime Minister's recent statements on a television channel are also known. She's exposed because she deepens our country into these very imperialist organizations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u63	Thank you. Mrs. Libertyraki, now the turn would be for someone to speak from the Potami. But because you are 'in favour' you do not need to speak. This is not the case with those who vote 'in favour' as with SYRIZA and others. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-seven students and students and three educational sessions from the 17th Gymnasium of Patras (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] He has the floor as a representative of the Central Association, which was absent in the committee. Mr. Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u64	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to look at two draft laws which ratify agreements with a state whose name came from an agreement that the Centro Association had voted against, an agreement which has only been signed by the Greek Government. The position of the Centro Association and my own you know, ladies and gentlemen. I will not go back to it, as this issue has been exhausted by the present government for us. The present Government has undertaken the political cost of this agreement and will, where appropriate, bear the electoral cost of this agreement. All I would like to repeat on this point is that the Greek people were never consulted at any stage of the negotiations by any government, by any government which managed this national issue, as was never informed by the Greek people in the course of any negotiations, commitments and agreements. We are currently examining the two bills in a formulated situation, so in which we have never consented and never heard our arguments with the utmost importance. We didn't move emotionally. We have put forward reasonable arguments. And although one can say that foreign policy is cold and has no feelings but interests, we will say that anyone who approachs foreign policy clearly on the basis of emotions is wrong, but also anyone who ignores the will of the Greek people again is wrong. So in the already established situation based on the government's arguments, number one, its main argument for the Prespecies Agreement was that Turkey, the number of a national threat, enter the Macedonian decision-making centres and play the dangerous game, which has been used to play for decades. The most important analysts agree that we can distinguish three separate but not autonomous geographical subsystems in the diplomatic expression of Turkish reform, in the military manifestation of Turkish aggression and, at the same time, in the action of Turkish secret services. This is the subsystem of the Western Balkans, which includes, among other things, Skopje and Albania, the second subsystem consisting of Thrace and the northern Aegean, as well as the third subsystem, i.e. the Dodecanese and Cyprus. In Thrace and Cyprus, what we all know is happening. Turkey extends its hand to grab what it can do with the blessings of the English government. And that's what we have to say. We must remember that when we speak in this Chamber again about 'Brexit'. For some time now I have insisted on the need for a common position between the parties to the democratic arch, according to which Greece should immediately make its attitude to the "Brexit" with the attitude of the English in the Cypriot but also the question of the return of the thieves. If the Parthenon sculptures do not come back and if they do not get out of Cyprus, I find no reason at all to give them support with our vote, when that time comes to ask as a Greek Parliament, for the kind of relationships that we must seek to have with them as a common European market. But I am coming back to what is of interest to us and what is not. So if we accept for the sake of the debate that the Government's argument is correct, that is to say, with the lake agreement, the opportunity for Greece to drive Turkey out of Skopje and thus restrict its overall action in the Western Balkans, then we are obliged to try to answer the very simple question it has: This agreement leads to that? Is it a good thing? Is it in our interest or not? These two conditions under consideration and ratification which ultimately relate to the operation of two very important customs stations, strengthen the Greek interests at the expense of Turkish planning in the Western Balkans, yes or no? The response after careful study is clearly no. The operation of these two stations favours and facilitates local producers, entrepreneurs and exporters. It also allows the Greek infiltration into the bureaucracy of Skopje. But was that not the framework to move outside the Prespecies Agreement? So we couldn't drive there, do the things that this bill says without having brought as a prerequisite for the Prespecies Agreement? Do these two bills favour the restoration and blocking of Turkish planning in the Balkans? Can't you see what's going on with Turkey? Don't you see where Erdogan's going? Turks insist and wait at that time they will want to grab something from Greece. Even if Greece's planning was - which is not, because we simply do not have a national policy on this issue - to achieve this with these two sanctions as a start, the price we have paid is too great. The cost, in other words, to have this opportunity today, to be able to achieve such an important blow to Turkish interests and to strengthen Greek interests was too great: we gave the name of Macedonia. So those of us who were in trouble by giving the name of Macedonia and not the various minor aspects of the Prespecies Agreement are constantly wondering and we have been anxiously considering what exactly democratic response we have had from the previous year. Unfortunately, however, it is clear that since the Acoustic Opposition itself has not succeeded in publicly proposing anything that would lead to the overthrow of the Prespecies Agreement, at the same time as reassuring the Greek people that it will protect Greek interests by means of great rigour towards the European course of Skopje, the chances of a Greek government denounced the agreement of this lake are zero. As rapporteur for the Union of Centres, always faithful and consistent both in words and in actions, I am voting against the two sanctions, precisely because they are linked to an agreement which we have often described as harmful to our national interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr. Saridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u66	Madam President, I would like the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u67	What do you want, Mr Pappa, why am I going to give the Minister the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u68	As we did not place ourselves in the first part of the sitting, which involved filling the position of the Vice-President, the change in the Rules of Procedure of the House...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u69	Are you referring to the amendment to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u70	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u71	This has been voted on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u72	I would like a minute to place ourselves, because we were negative in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, but here too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u73	I give you a minute to record your position in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u74	In this one minute I would like to say a few words about these facilities - which were made a little while ago - from SYRIZA to the Potami to the political junction called Potami. This amendment to Parliament's Rules of Procedure could well be called the Potami Amendment. Of course, this filling of the position, following the re-establishment of the River Parliamentary Group, concerns and is a matter of a few months' time. A hundred and twenty days? How much can we say? For this meeting of the Vice-President, perhaps someone would say that it is not worth mentioning in the barons' piece, which served the purposes for which it was created, voted, that is, the third memorandum, voted for the infamous Prespecies Agreement, voted for all the anti-national and fictitious bills brought by SYRIZA to the Greek Parliament, the bills that dismantle the social fabric, social life, which affect the country, religion, family. But in this case we have to say a few words, Madam President. In today's case we would say, as the people say, "Yiannis, he's buying and Yiannis drink." What happened today is: "Yiannis buys and Yiannis drinks". That's exactly what happened today. So let us say that your company is nice, but we are not going to take it. We're not participating. We do not participate in the tricks of your political anomaly, i.e. in the changes of the parties, the Vice-Presidents, etc. Before these changes in the Rules of Procedure come to the House, you can add and remove Vice-Presidents, change provisions, but we in these opaque processes, which precede the proposals, and these legislative support systems that you have from the Scientific Council of Parliament are not part of. So you find us opposing. After all, it has already taken care in 2012, with the agreement of SYRIZA, that Samaras' government has been putting out completely undemocratic, completely unethical and unconstitutional the Golden Dawn from filling the position of the Vice-President who belonged to it, something that has been done for many years, without the requirement that the vote be rolled out, which you have reverted to create with the relevant amendment to the Rules of Procedure in order to ensure that you are properly and democratically. Of course, we're negative. Not only do we vote against it, but much more we do not participate in this political law of yours. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u75	Okay. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u76	Madam President, we are two people, me and Mr Athanasios. Let the Minister answer after that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u77	This is not the case in the Procurement Regulation. Mr. Athanasios, you know the Rules of Procedure from the outside. Do I have to do it by tolerance?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u78	Give us three minutes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u79	Good. Mr Athanasios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u80	Madam President, in view of the fact that we come from there and we will be speaking last. Things will be heard that you don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u81	There's nothing we don't know. Five months, that's what we've been talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u82	It's okay. The last position is honorable. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u83	Here you go, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about two bills concerning the ratification of agreements between the Hellenic Republic and Skopje or the Republic of Northern Macedonia, as is now called by you, concerning the establishment of new border crossing points between the two countries, which will connect the lake of Prespa and the Promotes. One wonders: What is so urgent that this ratification should take place ten days before the European elections? To show that the Presidencies' Agreement takes effect? At the same time, you could have opened them up regardless of agreement, or even with a bilateral informal agreement between the two states. So do not ash in our eyes, neither ours nor our people, nor simply present issues of bilateral relations as triumphs of your foreign policy. The results of the unacceptable Prespecies Agreement are different and they have already begun to appear in terms of diplomacy, but especially at the moment at the economic level, especially in the field of patenting trademarks. And, unfortunately, the agreement, as it was structured and voted on, will create other problems in our country, and will produce benefits mainly for the neighbours, who once they have achieved what they want, namely, their membership of NATO and the accession timetable for the European Union begins, I am afraid they will change the question. So these agreements are not the result of the Prespecies Agreement, but they are trying to appear as such and for election reasons, despite the fact that you commit the next government a few months before your departure. However, speaking of agreements, I think they have problems too. In particular, in the relevant articles - Article 3 of both agreements - I am referring to the setting up of a committee of experts from both countries, it is not precisely defined or what the subject is to be investigated by the famous experts or because they need two committees, one for each crossing station. Moreover, why so much importance, since the necessary infrastructure is there? When will they be implemented? For example, the road network, when will it be implemented? In a year? Two? Three? Generally, dealing with the question of our relations with neighbours is the vague referral of everything to committees so that you do not need to get public positions that may cost you. With these kinds of tactics and foreign policy work, we cannot consent. It is a wish that these initiatives are from your last as government of the country. For these reasons, as our rapporteur has said, New Democracy is voting against the bills, especially if they appear as a result of an agreement with which we have never consented and which is harmful to our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr. Athanasios. Mr Antoniadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u86	Thank you, Madam President. I'm a congressman, Florins. Every day we live the relations and contacts with the inhabitants, the neighbours of Skopje. First I listened with surprise yesterday - I am not in this committee - the SYRIZA colleagues from Florina and Pella who, perhaps, in the euphoria of the moment, promised growth, economic heavens and others, which have nothing to do with reality. They either have full ignorance or deliberately mislead both the citizens of Florina and Pella and all the people and all Parliament. Let's put things in place. I'm starting at the farmhouse. Mrs Jackson said the Pellas Prefecture is dynamic - indeed - and they export 120 million agricultural products. In fact, he said that the opening of this border station opened up new prospects. No more untrue. I can only tell you that, when sold in Florina and Pella 1 euro kilo or 80 minutes, in Skopje, the apple is sold 30 minutes. It's easier to sell snow to the Eskimos than agricultural products in Skopje. Let's go to the Zarisa. They have half the price. Although we inform the citizens "Don't shop in Skopje, why they run them with pesticides banned, suffering, uncontrolled, next to Skopje and banned by the European Union" because of the crisis, perhaps, they go and shop. These are toxic bombs, which we can't control. Let's go to livestock products now. Illegally bolts come with milk, which are delivered to the dairy industries, along with transport, at half the price. Who are you competing with? The same goes for meat. So what Mrs Jackson said about rural development with cooperation is fairy tales. There's not even one in a million. In fact, he also announced a number of road axes - and I tell you our opposite - Florina and Pella, of the nineteen counties that embrace Ennatia, we are the only ones that have not made the connection with Ennatia. They're now announcing streets that are going to happen in Pella. In Florinna, nothing. They're getting ready with a trailer to open a border station. They did not even anticipate the improvement of the roads, nor even facilities for the application of health rules, nor even policemen carrying - because it is the third border, which opens up in Florina - and otherwise they want to open borders. I come to the worst: Do you know what we're living in Florinna? One third of the businesses have been closed since the crisis and one third of the businesses have been closed from the economic bleeding to Skopje. Everyone's going out there shopping, and that's why they've booked business. They went to unemployment business and all the workers at the stores. I challenge and invite all the members of the committee - I will host them, at my own expense - to go to Florina to discuss with the shopkeepers, with the trade unions, with the EBRD, with the President, who is not up to us. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, please. It's a serious matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u87	Everything is serious, but there is also the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u88	Second, do you know how much bleeding is? A hundred and fifty thousand cars spend the year from Florina to FYROM. It is at least 15 million, with the most subtle estimates, money that migrate to FYROM. The only tail we heard, the investors, who will come from Skopje, is the tail of the Greeks, which we have when they enter Skopje and the tail when they come back to their homes. It's scary! Come and ask the businessmen what they're up to. Third...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u89	Mr. Antoniadis, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u90	Madam President, please listen, because these have not been heard so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u91	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u92	It's serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u93	We talked about it for five months.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u94	No one else has an interest, just like I do. That opens in Florinna, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u95	There are other Members, Mr President. It's not just you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u96	No one else speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u97	They've done it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u98	So you can't show tolerance for two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u99	Anyway, we won't have a dialogue. Exceptionally, three minutes. I've already held a tolerant attitude.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u100	If what I said has been heard before, please tell me to stop. Does Parliament know what is going to happen here? Does he know what's going to happen in Pella?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u101	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u102	It's unacceptable what you're doing. I'm telling you something and write it down: In the next three years, especially in Pella, which is a great prefecture - Florinna has suffered the disaster - we will cry with black tears. Twelfth, Scydra and Giannitsa will close one third of the stores because of this border station. Put on the side and the posts of Mrs. Jackri and the other Member of Parliament. Antoniadis! And put me in the main square!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u103	Don't say names because Mrs. Jackres isn't here and she can't answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u104	That's what you do and don't let us talk. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u105	Madam President, the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u106	All right, Mr. Amanatidis. We've already gone too far. It's Article 108 and people who disagree. I left them, they spoke to as much time as they wanted. Now you don't have to. The Minister will speak. You're in favor. You don't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u107	Madam President, yes, but Members have also spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u108	Yeah, but you're in favor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u109	Parliamentary representatives speak. Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u110	But I refused to give the floor to the river. I didn't expect there to be that much...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u111	The majority will remain silent? The parliamentary representative must speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u112	But it's not a matter of silent observers. Now, because you are a parliamentary representative and you have the right to all procedures to ask for the floor, I will give it to you for five minutes. The Minister also has five minutes and no one else.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u113	Madam President... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u114	Mrs. Liberaki, are you a parliamentary representative? And SYRIZA was in favor and he's asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u115	Madam President, please. Mr. Amanatidis, I'm not giving you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u116	Madam President, you have also given the honourable Member the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u117	Now I don't know why the appetite opened you. Look, you are not registered as speakers and you are not provided for the listing of speakers. The article in which the contracts are ratified is well known. You're not a rookie!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u118	Madam President, you have given Vice-Presidents the floor, you will also give the majority Members. Whatever Mr. Antoniadis is, it's me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u119	The Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u120	Exceptionally, I gave the floor because it was only two. If I knew it'd be ten or two, I wouldn't give him, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u121	Madam President, I too want the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u122	Madam President, I would like to speak for two minutes on an original issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u123	Let's see what you all say, what's the original.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u124	What I'm saying is a deep political one. There is the self-inspiring of the New Democracy and the colleagues who are voting against it. And there's self-inspiring, why? They have, on the one hand, the position of Vice-President of their party, Adoni Georgiadis, where in the committee of Parliament he said that "we vote against any applicable law coming for the Prespecies Agreement" and on the other hand the position of the President of the New Democracy, who has said that "we will do everything so that the negative consequences of the agreement do not apply". And I directly ask the New Democracy: these two sanctions have a negative impact on our country and on what points? Mr Antoniadis's view is deeply appalling. They are afraid that they will be told that "with these things you recognize the Embassy Agreement." I would like to ask again why a second question arises: does the New Democracy consider the Presidencies' Agreement to be unconstitutional? Oh, no. It was placed in plenary session differently. So he's not hiding. She'll take a courageous stand and say her opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u125	Mrs. Libertyraki, would you like the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u126	Madam President, we have discussed this in committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u127	Okay, I know, but everyone wants to talk today. Well, Mr. Xydakis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u128	Thank you, Madam President, for giving me the floor. I thank the KINAL colleagues who, after the hesitations of the committee, give their vote in a policy of open borders, friendship, cooperation and development in the Balkans. I would like to respond to the fears of colleagues from New Democracy - as Mr Antoniadis has sincerely said - that the Greeks of Macedonia, northern Greece, have known for many years that the borders have been open, circulated, gone and coming. As well as a one and a half million citizens of northern Macedonia regularly, every summer and before and outside of the summer season, they cross the border and leave their symbol in Greece. That means neighborhood. This means friendly, peaceful relations of development and understanding between neighbouring states. We see conflicting, rejecting votes in a contract, an agreement that upgrades diplomatic relations, opens passages and comes to meet years of demands from the Greek productive population. Since years there have been requests from Greek industries and Greek companies that have established interests on both sides of the border, to facilitate crossings, to facilitate another border open policy. With regard to the issues he has raised in some ways, it is clear that the support of the Hellenic Republic to the Republic of Cyprus is complete, lasting and unconditional. We don't have to repeat this. I guess we need to repeat this. so that our fellow citizens can hear it. It is also known that in these last years since 2015, the left-wing governments have shown unprecedented diplomatic activity. They extended foreign policy to many fields and deepened to other areas, where there were good starts. A diplomatic chapter was raised and through the conclusion of the negotiation and exit from the memorandum. A large part of the eaten prestige of the Hellenic Republic and the Greek people has been recovered from the slanderes of the populist tracts of Europe and populist politicians, who have slandered the Greek people and have often swept away - densely and on the occasion of the refugee and other diplomatic initiatives taken by Greece, Greece at the moment may not be pleasing to some circles of European states, in the reactionary circles, but they account for Greece, respect it. He took the lead in the major alliances and in the progressive Europe and in southern Europe with substantial interventions and ultimately, those who are caught up are the people who left their political positions, the political processes of many years from successive Greek governments and found - for reasons that they themselves understand, but we can take them out as shallow demagogy - on the steps of the Syntagma Square, without any policy, disproaching themselves, disguising the international declarations, the international organisations, to denounce along with the evidence they have made against the Greek Parliament, with extreme elements which none of them adopt, except some policies, which were the first to sign up for Macedonia's name in 1991-1992. These are the historical events. I wish, like KINAL overheard the hesitation...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u129	Don't overthrow what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u130	.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is a political attitude, with political arguments. I also hope that the other political forces, which have been on the back of their own positions and foreign policy processes, will understand what open borders policy, development policy and the policy of focusing on the country's forces where we must look. North Macedonia is not an adversary. These people, who feel in their hearts Greek and Greek, are not rivals, people with whom we live and will live in the coming years. But there is concern, elsewhere there are risks, that's where we need to focus, and that's where we're focused. Thank you very much, Madam President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u131	Madam President, I would like to speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u132	Mr. Kefaliannis, in order to reach agreement, three speakers from New Democracy have spoken. So whoever goes through will talk? You can't do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u133	Madam President, I am speaking as a parliamentary representative for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u134	Can you say something about what your colleagues didn't say?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u135	Of course, to answer Mr. Xydakis as well. I ask for equality of arms, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u136	Okay, I can't control this anymore. You, Mr. Carras, are not a parliamentarian.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u137	I'm a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u138	As rapporteur, you have spoken with the above.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u139	Madam President, you know that, when I speak, I am a telegraph in my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u140	Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor. Say the telegraphs, let's see.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u141	First of all, I would like to begin with two comments on what I have heard from Mr Xydakis, who, at the edge of his speech, said that for many years there has been open borders policy between the two countries. I think that we are being asked reasonable questions and one of the main arguments put down by the SYRIZA Government for the sake of the Pact. If, indeed, this was the policy of open borders, then we all realise that, for the Presidencies Agreement, one of the basic arguments put forward by the government is supposed to create better conditions. Secondly, I have heard once again - in a polite way Mr Xydakis put it - about the coexistence of certain forces in this matter with the Golden Dawn. I would remind you that SYRIZA, in many cases politically, was united with the Golden Dawn, as in December 2014, when Mr Dimas was not in favour of President of the Republic at that time. They joined together in the July 2015 referendum, joined together when MPs from SYRIZA, from the Independent Greeks and from the Golden Dawn, only attended the meeting of the Committee on Foreign and Defence in Kastelorizo in December 2016. There was a strange coincidence in Mrs Thanos' vote as chairman of the Competition Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u142	They didn't need the votes of the Golden Dawn to be elected.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u143	Let it go, it doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u144	Will you repeat the make news of the scandal websites?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u145	Wait a minute, Mr. Xydakis. You opened a topic...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u146	Now we're gonna count on how many bills have you voted together? Mr. Kefaliannis, we said a pre-election period, but let's not completely relax it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u147	You opened a topic...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u148	Were 61% of the referendum golden?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u149	You opened a subject, I didn't open it, and it's due to some answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u150	I didn't open any matters.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u151	If we go to that logic, I can tell you most of the cases where this coexistence existed. I'm closing up with the bill. I will say that it is actually a slap, a hasty piece of legislation. Both Mr Kumucaskos, our rapporteur, and Mr Athanasios, have spoken about political purposes, but I would like to point out two things, for example, if you look at the draft law concerning the Protagonists and Miden. Because, you know, our main task here is to be legislators and we also need to see the integrity of the legislation. One starts, reads the first article, ends Article 1 which says about the text of the agreement and when one goes to look at the text of the agreement, there is no agreement, but there is after the text of the legislation. If one goes to the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, it will in most cases see that there is no specific reference to expenditure generated by this agreement. The same applies, of course, to the other draft law, which also to the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, there is no specific reference to costs caused.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u152	Is Northern Macedonia gonna pay for the guards?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u153	No, I am referring to the costs to be incurred by stations on the Greek territory. I am saying this, and I am closing down with this because it seems once again that you want to bring these two legislations into orderly, a few days before the elections, for the political purposes to which my colleagues have referred and, unfortunately, even to such a small piece of legislation as far as possible, there are so many manipulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u154	Madam President, I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u155	Madam President, you will give me the floor on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u156	No, no. It's over! You've taken advantage of my tolerance. You are rapporteur, you do not have the right to secondary education. So do you. It's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u157	You are violating the Rules of Procedure, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u158	I will give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u159	I'll take the personal speech later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u160	No, no. I regret the procedure I held. It's over, I can't hear anyone! Madam Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u161	Because I only have five minutes, it's already counting my time, and please don't eat my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u162	After the Minister, I'll take the floor on staff. I am entitled to it under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u163	What's the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u164	There is no staff in this procedure. Leave it, you won't get the floor for any reason! Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u165	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to apologise for the slight delay in my arrival. It was not my job to escape because the government is on the way out during Mr Kumucaco, but some discussions had to be held with regard to what happened with the United Kingdom. I would like to say that today, as I will explain for tomorrow, but from now on we see what the practical benefit of the Prespecies Agreement is. After we spent months and months talking about an agreement of the Prespecies that gives it and the other, the time finally came to see in practice that the country is its people, local communities and what is absolutely needed. That's what we're talking about today. This bill and these agreements came from heaven. I barely had a lot of pressure from local communities to get the legislation before Easter and while I promised them, and I apologise, we did not have time, because the legislative procedure has its time and we did not have time. It was a direct demand for local communities. It has been heard here that with the framework that we had before and without the Presidencies Agreement, cross-border routes could be opened, all of this could be done. Unfortunately, no, and I call it categorically. The framework which defined our bilateral relations until the vote on the Prespecies Agreement was that of the Hellenic Republic with the then Yugoslavia of 1959, Mr Kumucako. We have opened infinite cross-border roads with Bulgaria and Albania. We didn't open anyone up with northern Macedonia. We have not been able to renew and update the institutional framework governing the relations between the two countries. And you know why? It's very simple. There has never been any legislation in the Greek Parliament concerning the two countries. Why? Because there was the problem of the naming. One has come, there is the Interim Agreement of 1995, which in Article 19 provides for the opening of a cross-border road in Laimo. The Prespes could not come because the names mentioned in the Interim Agreement do not appear in the press. It was Part One, Part Two. He couldn't come to the House. A piece of legislation has come to Parliament, only the Stability Pact in Northern Macedonia, then Macedonia, for the European Union. Absolutely nothing else. He couldn't come. So we had a framework of bilateral contacts in 1959. Alas, the residents of the Florina region have been calling operators since 1967, which closed the cross-border road in the region of Laimos. They've been yelling and made infinite representations to open this road. He couldn't open and he couldn't open. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] You will give me some time, Madam President, because they have asked me questions and I have to answer them. The Prespecies Agreement solved both the hands of the Greek state and the Republic of Northern Macedonia. So there was a need for the Prespecies Agreement. And a second point, because we keep saying 'It doesn't want 80% of the Greek people.' Well, because the practical application of the agreement will show exactly what the agreement is, so we have these reactions here too, "no, no need" etc. Can I give you a simple example of what I said yesterday in committee? The Pan-Macedonian Federation of Canada was against the Ambassadors' Agreement, as was most Macedonian organizations abroad. Do you know what agreement they used to contradict arguments from other organisations in the dispersion of northern Macedonia using signals, ancient Greek emblems and others? The Embassy Agreement, because it started to solve issues. Because I was asked yesterday by Mr Koumoutsakos in committee, the committee appointed under the auspices of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on trademarks, trade names, etc. is meeting for the first time tomorrow. It meets for the first time in Thessaloniki and there are issues raised by the businessmen of both sides who stayed unsolved until the Ambassadors' Agreement was signed. I also mean for Laimos mainly, for the Prespes, because at the beginning I said that they are the people and the land that these people live and who want to grow on this earth and not leave this land. We all know very well that, while in Europe, these Euroregions, which are cross-border areas, have already started in 1958, which lead to the development of local societies around the borders, which favour the protection of the ecosystem, as the Prespecies of the unique ecosystems, which promote cooperation, reconciliation, etc., in Greece, the Peace Park in the Prespecies took place in 2000 or 2001, if I am not mistaken. It could not develop as much as it should, due to a lack of cross-border roads. I have had the happiness today of receiving from the European Commission a study on the development of the Prespes region, which - thanks to the agreement - will be able to develop this cross-border link. But because you mentioned pesticides, etc. and because I said at the outset about the institutional framework and you said 'What are these committees?' And I have the committees here. In other words, I have the agreements as they have been signed and in what articles, under Union law, are provided for, for phytosanitary purposes and for the protection of the environment, for customs and for the police. Here it is. I think you should have been operated together with the bill. I don't know if you have them, but if you don't have them, they're here and they can be copied, so that you can see what the designated committees will do. As for the funding, it says in the bill that it will be from European programmes. But I want to be more specific. Already in Florina, 4m euros have been committed by the INTERREG programme, which will proceed with the work and 40m euros, which have been left off the Egnatia Road, for the Pella region. Meanwhile, because the mayor of Prespes and the Vice-President of Western Macedonia had come to my office and they had seen me and urged me before Easter to legislate on the cross-border route, I was told that the region was taking over the costs needed to move this project forward. It is a development project - apart from all the others - in both cases, in Pella and Florina. I would like to close with one issue for Turkey, because Mr Kumoucaskos said something and I really do not want to leave it unanswered. We all agree with the government in the most unequivocal way, both by an oral Prime Minister and by an oral Minister for Foreign Affairs and Minister for National Defence has been placed on the issue of Turkey and its provocative activities in the Eastern Mediterranean and especially in the area of the EEZ of Cyprus. And it has always been put in line with international law, international treaties and talks. Because the country's strategic choice over time is peace and it tries to bring its neighbour, without, of course, in any case, showing that it does not have a deterrence capacity. But, Mr Kumucako, I really want to ask: Do you stress and warn about what exactly? Don't let the country go any further? So this government is considered to be a reduced liability or a reduced national liability? Every government elected democratically by this country on matters relating to foreign policy and national issues - I think we all agree on that - has the responsibility and power until the last minute to legislate and do what the mandate of the Greek people has given it. I hope you do not mean what you have been informed many times by the National Foreign Policy Council, namely whether or not the country has the right to extend its territorial waters to the Ionian Sea, especially when it has spoken and found them with the neighbours concerned. I think - and I said yesterday - that there should be no national auction. I am very pleased, however, that after 1967 we succeed in opening up the cross-border road to Florina, between Laimos and Markova Noga and Pella - which was never there - between the Protestants and Miden. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u166	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u167	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u168	Madam President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u169	There's no possibility. It's over, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u170	I would just like to make a point of fact. It's Article 14 and Article 26 of the Interim Agreement, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u171	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-seven students and students and three educational attendants from the Municipal School of Bamvakopoulou Chania. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u172	Madam President, may I have the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u173	I told you, Mr. Pappa, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u174	I have a right to take the floor for a minute to explain the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u175	No, you have no right. You said so personally against everyone that we'd be here by 20:00 an hour!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u176	But I'm asking for the floor. Give me the opportunity to tell you what the staff is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u177	No, I'm not giving you that. The debate is adjourned at the outset and on the articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Under the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Northern Macedonia on the establishment of a border crossing point in the region of Prespa Lake and other provisions’. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, six articles, the farewell article, and the whole bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. And, of course, you must make sure that you have passed all the articles, the hotel article and the entire bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u178	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u179	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u180	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Repeal of the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Northern Macedonia on the establishment of a border crossing point in the region of Prespa Lake and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u181	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned at the outset and on the articles of the draft law: "Furthermore, the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Northern Macedonia on the establishment of a new border crossing point between the two countries, which will link the Protestants, the Hellenic Republic and the Majden (Majden) to the Republic of Northern Macedonia". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, two articles, the farewell article, and the whole bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. And, of course, you must make sure that you have passed all the articles, the hotel article and the entire bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u182	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u183	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u184	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Northern Macedonia on the establishment of a new border crossing between the two countries, which will link the Protestants, the Hellenic Republic and the Majden (Majden) in the Republic of Northern Macedonia’, has been accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of the articles and the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u186	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-15-S2-commons.u187	(b) legislative work: only discussion and vote on the principle, of the articles and of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Declaration of the donation contract between the Greek Government, of the Penteli Children's Hospital and of the Cooperatives of Elizabeth Papagiannopoulou's Testament", (c) applications for waiver of immunity: discussion and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, on applications for immunity from Members of Parliament, etc. Theodorou Fortsakis, Nikolaos Friend and Aristides Fokas, as well as (d) electing Vice President of the Greek Parliament.
