ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-26-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its reports on the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: 1. ‘Preparation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the companies “Total E&P Greece B.V”, “ExxonMobil Exploration and Production Greece (Crete) B.V” and “Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company” for the granting of the right of exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons to the marine region “Western Crete”, Greece”. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Preparation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the companies “Total E&P Greece B.V”, “ExxonMobil Exploration and Production Greece (Crete) B.V” and “Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company” for the granting of the right of exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Southwest Crete Sea Area”. 3. ‘Creation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the companies “Repsol Exploration S.A” and “Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company” for the granting of the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons in the Ionian Sea Area, Western Greece”. 4. ‘Creation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the company ‘Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company’ for the granting of the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons in the marine region 10, Ionian Sea, Greece’. I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-26-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Let me start by announcing the topical and urgent debate on Friday 27 September 2019 to the House. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 31/23-9-2019 by MP Chania of the New Democracy Mr Manos Voloudakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "New radar approach to the airport of Chania". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Pellis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theodoras Tsakris to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, dated 34/24-9-2019, on "Following the work of the Giannitsa and Chalcidona bypass". 3. The 23/23-9-2019 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantina (Nantias) Giannakopoulou to the Minister of Health, on "Without Chemotherapy, patients remained at the Attica Hospital". 4. Question No 28/23-9-2019 by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union on tsipouro-tsikoudia". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 32/23-9-2019 by Mr. Athens, Mr. Fotinis Pipilis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Decision in favour of pedestrians". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question under number 36/24-9-2019 of the Thessaloniki Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Integration of Thessaloniki Metro in the immediate direction". 3. The question by number 24/23-9-2019 of the current question by MP Argolidas of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Agreement of the EEA with private clinics for the disposal of beds in Intensive Treatment Units". 4. The question by No 37/24-9-2019 from MP B3' South Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Mousala, Minister for Civil Protection, on "Designing the Government for the Refugee - Migration question". 5. The 30/23-9-2019 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Health, on "Problems from the subscribing of the Paedophiliatric Clinic of the University General Hospital of Heraklion Crete (PAGNI)". 6. The question by number 38/24-9-2019 of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Reforming to the Primary Care for Health (PHY) and the prospect of the Local Health Units (TOMY)". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question by No 40/24-9-2019 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Yiannis Delis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "New deadly accidents at a quarry in Drama". 8. The question asked by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Tryphona Alexiadis to the Minister of Finance, on "Exemption of the training of auditors to private companies". Ladies and gentlemen, we now come to the topical and urgent questions of today's issue. The first under No 22/20-9-2019 topical question by MP Halkidiki of the Change Movement Mr.Apostolos Pana to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject of "Degrade of the Second Local Degree of Halkidiki to a Decentralised Department", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister Panagiotis Mitaraki, who is in Hydra as a representative of the Government. He's a central speaker at a conference. The first question under number 41/24-9-2019 of the second question by the MP of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject of "Intensified insecurity of workers in social work programmes" will not be discussed due to the exceptional family reasons of Minister Ioannis Brutsis. The second question under number 26/23-9-2019 of the first cycle of the Greek Communist Party MP, Yiannis Delis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Serious earthquakes in the schools of the country", will not be discussed due to lack of responsibility. For this, a letter from the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs, Mr Stylianos Koutnajis, has been sent to us. The second question will now be discussed with number 27/23-2019, on the second question by MP B3', South Athens, of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, on the subject: “The “Help at Home” programme and the recruitment of workers”. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-26-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you know, in the "Help at Home" programme, three and a half thousand workers work in eight hundred five structures and offer social support and assistance to over 100 thousands of our fellow people who are part of vulnerable social groups, such as HEIs, over-ages and others. The need for this programme is not questionable. But every year, he's in the air. Its financing is lacking and is maintained by continuous extensions. With Law 4583/2018, Article 91, the process of integrating the program "Help at Home" into the organic units of Grade I OTAs was launched. According to Article 91(1), "Help at Home" workers continue to work with fixed-term employment contracts that have been extended up to 31-12-2019. It is planned that such workers continue to work until the final lists are published in the organic posts. Minister, we have been a few months before the end of 2019 and the competition has still not been opened, which makes workers rightly concerned and not just. That's why you're asking: What do you intend to do in order to make it possible to carry out the recruitment invitation and what measures will you take in order not to find the workers last minute without an active contract and without a legislative framework for their wages? We're waiting for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-26-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr Katsotis. Mr Panagiotis Theodorikos will answer the timely question. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-26-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, thank you very much for the question, because we have the opportunity to inform the House of an important issue concerning social policy conducted by local government. The view of our Government and the Ministry of Interior is that the program "Help at Home" does indeed offer important positive social policy services to vulnerable groups of the population, such as people with disabilities, third-age people with problems, etc. That is why we are determined that the programme should continue properly and assess its results in order to upgrade it. As far as workers are concerned, I have held meetings with their representatives and have confirmed them what I have now to say to the House. All municipalities have been asked to amend the Agency in order to convert the posts of workers working in this area permanently. The positions must be permanent, because the work they offer is permanent. Of the two hundred and seventy-two municipalities participating in the programme, we have been sent the two hundred sixty-sixteen data. Six municipalities are evacuating. In particular, they are the municipalities of Acharnon, Thermaikos, Mykonos, Xanthi, Piraeus and Florida, with which the Ministry of Interior is in direct contact, so that they also send us the data as soon as possible. As soon as this is completed, the Ministry of Interior will send the approval decision to the AACC in order to carry out the tender. In our assessment, the competition will be opened in 2019 and its results will be published in 2020. Since we do not want there to be any interruption in the programme at all, the Government, the Ministry of the Interior, by means of a legislative provision, provides that workers' contracts should be extended until the tender procedure is completed and the new nominees will come to work in this area. The amounts concerned have already been provided in cooperation with the General Accounting Office of the State by the Ministry of Interior and there is absolutely no concern about the financial costs of this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-26-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr Panagiotis Theodorikos. Mr Katsotis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-26-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. We know, Minister, that you have made the meeting with the workers' representatives, as we know that these were the commitments to them concerning the Government's attitude to this programme, which you said is necessary and which offers valuable services to those who need it. And, of course, they will never stop needing such services. Because there has been a lot of discussion for many years in relation to this programme, you know very well that it is in this employment relationship, with continuous extensions, that these workers have been 15 to twenty years ago. A lot of workers are working right now. There is a reservation in relation to this regulation provided for by this law that we mentioned earlier, where the solution, if you like, is promoted on this issue, whether it will indeed cover all workers working in this programme. We have a reservation, if they really stay out, as is the case with all this procedure, cleanliness in the municipalities. There's been too many workers out there, they lost their job, even though they've been working for several years. We therefore have a reservation if all the employees in the ‘Help at Home’ will be covered by this procedure that has been decided and that you will continue, of course, by the notice, as you said, where the competition will take place in 2019 and the results will be achieved in 2020. That's what we want to share, we want to project it, because we think they're unfair workers, who have been working for several years, to lose their jobs sometime. They have a know-how, they have an experience and I think it is not right to leave this position that they have and which offer important service to this programme, as is well known to be necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-26-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much Mr Katsotis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-26-S1-commons.u9	As far as the procedure is concerned, the legal requirements will be followed and there is no doubt that they will be complied with as procedures by the AACC. We all know that the workers already in the programme are modulated with a very significant number of molecules, which gives them too many possibilities. On the occasion of this position, however, I would like to say that it is very important to have a right to work and young people and people who want to enter the labour market or people who have a corresponding experience, but do not have it from the public sector and from the self-government. And they are citizens of this country, with rights, and we have to respect these people's right to that too. The legal provisions on how to recruit from the IASP, which includes a strong moleculosis of workers already in these self-government units, will therefore be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-26-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Civil Protection, Economic Affairs, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Education and Religion, Labour and Social Affairs, Home Affairs, Tourism and the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs tabled a draft law on 25-9-2019: ‘Amendment of Law 4251/2014 (A 80) on the adaptation of Greek legislation to Directive (EU) 2016/801 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for research, studies, practical training, voluntary service, exchange of students or educational programmes and on the employment of indemnity assistants (au pair)’. The first question under number 258/7-8-2019 - the cycle of petitions and questions - of the MP Rodopi of the Change Movement Mr.Ilhan Ahmet to the Minister of Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Restoration of injustices for compensation for tobacco producers - cotton producers in the Regional Unit of Rhodope affected by diseases in 2018". The Minister for Rural Development will answer Mr Mavroudis Voridis. Mr Ilhan Ahmet has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-26-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in 2018 we had dry-heated conditions in Rhodope from March to June 2018, resulting in a disease called "nurse" and destruction of all tobacco production by 80% - 85% and according to the study and conclusion of the local ELGA Alexandroupolis 55% scientifically documented. As if that were not enough, we also had in cotton a similar phenomenon for reducing cotton yield to levels below the minimum required area performance. Since the ELGA Regulation does not provide for compensation for disease viruses, the ELGA services have said that they need to be compensated by state funding, the budget of the PESA. A question was tabled in the previous House, in which your predecessor, Minister, has responded positively and said that there is indeed this damage and must be compensated by the PESA. Unfortunately, nothing has progressed since then. And tobacco producers and cotton producers are waiting for a very clear answer from you, the current political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development, if for the 2018 losses that can now be paid out in 2019 by the PES budget, state aid, let us say, you are willing to compensate, because the situation is tragic. If we add the fact that in 2019 - this year - we had other flooding phenomena, which are of course part of the ELGA - you understand that the economic situation in the region is tragic and we would like a clear answer from you about the intentions of the current government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-26-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr. Ahmet. The Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Vorides, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-26-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, you are aware of your interest in the issues of your region and especially the issues of agricultural production. Thank you for this question. Because you raised a question of political will, I can assure you that the government's political will is that the income of our producers must be based on all our regions and especially on our outermost regions with even greater sensitivity! I can also assure you that the issue of compensation for disasters caused by primary production and therefore the loss of income of our producers mainly from weather causes is a subject that we are most concerned with. So we will see how we can improve the compensation conditions. I am going to this particular, which you are interested in, but which has expressed the government's political will. Indeed, things are as you have said and as you described them. So what? These causes are not covered by insurance by ELGA. That's true. And, indeed, the compensation procedure is now being followed by the so-called State financial aid. As far as state financial aid is concerned, it is also controlled at European level, beyond the question of the government's political will. And I would like that to be something that will be heard, because when we say 'political will of the government', one can understand that it is a signature of the Minister, which, if he does not, does not want, but, if he does, wants it. It is not so because, as you know, we are in an increased regulatory landscape. What does that mean? All kinds of financial support, therefore, to primary production, but also to all production, is controlled in terms of its legality and at European level. A non-legal aid will create recovery issues as a result of breach of the competition rules. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] So there are legal conditions here - the political will has been expressed, I stress - which are being met? What must be done in order to go to the procedure I mentioned, state financial aid? I remind you: The production of the year of damage has been damaged by type of product at a prefecture level of 30% or more. You mentioned this, too, by saying that this condition is fulfilled and fulfilled. To be scientifically substantiated by a committee that loss of production is the result of an unfavourable weather treaty and not a combination of many. This is therefore a prerequisite for the initiation of the procedure. Official meteorological evidence to confirm the characterisation of weather conditions as unfavourable. That is the third condition. Fourth condition: to approve the cost of compensation for damages by the General Accounting Office of the State - here I would say that the political will is involved - and the proper cultivation technique has been followed and appropriate measures have been taken to avoid damage and the spread of damage. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Do I have some time, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-26-S1-commons.u14	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-26-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much. In order to draw up the relevant dossier, all of the above-mentioned dossiers must be collected - so there must be a documentary dossier - and then, after the collection of the official data, it follows that they have been processed. In this case, the whole process is under way. It should be noted that the finding of a loss documentation by the Central Coordinating Committee set up to address and examine these conditions is expected to be completed in October 2019. I know you have received assurances in the past for a shorter conclusion. Know that I have given instructions personally to complete this finding at the earliest possible time and in order, if you like, to address the fourth issue, namely to have the appropriate amount in the General Accounting Office. But until we get there - which you will see the government's political will - the other four conditions must be resolved and the dossier must have been established at that level. So at the level of administrative management we have done our utmost. We have given a mandate for the quickest possible handling and I would like to say to you the government's political will that, once this has been done, there will be compensation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-26-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Ahmet Ilhan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-26-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Minister. First of all, I would like to thank you for your sincere position and intent on the political will that you have developed very nicely and we are happy as Rodopetes and as Thracemen for this political will. In addition, in 2019, in the recent floods we have, we have indeed seen that mobilisation was quite satisfactory, and I would like to express that in plenary. On this point, Minister, you quite rightly said that there is a very clear need for scientific documentation, so that the political leadership will not be exposed to the European Union, which, although the law changed, did not cease to be controlled by the European Union for all state aid to be paid in the form of PES, which we have already known. However, I can assure you with the contacts I have made in Rhodope with the relevant directors of ELGA that the dossier is complete both in terms of the level of damage and the meteorological conditions that existed at the time and by the National Meteorological System of Thessaloniki. It's technical. I, too, ask the farmers, in order to plan their debts and their jobs, to have a clear picture. You gave a date at the end of October. It's okay. The point is to make a fair assessment of the situation. The previous government proceeded only on tobacco, not on cotton in Rhodope, to payment of aid with the de minimis programme. It was, however, a horizontal contribution, which clearly did not satisfy anyone and even created more injustices. The CMO was the right one to deal with this issue. With the CMO I think that this injustice can be restored to the region and there is a positive approach to farmers' finances, because the region has been diagnosed lately. Again, thank you and expect the pleasant results from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-26-S1-commons.u18	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-26-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Considering that I have completed my answer here, let me say this by taking this opportunity to discuss the general issue of compensation. I would like to say a few things about this. As you know, the issue of compensation is actually covered by a triple - let me say - a mechanism. The main mechanism is ELGA. This is then the case for financial aid. In addition, the de minimis system is coming. I would like to stress the following: the de minimis system must be used in pussy, it must be used restrictively, and it must be used only where there is really no other effective compensation mechanism. It's an income support mechanism. It has more - let me say - competence in this sense, even though it is also notified to the European Union. But I repeat that, because the money is limited to de minimis and the total sums are controlled, I am afraid that one must use it, otherwise it gives rise to injustices, such as those described by you: who will get it? On what criteria? Why him and not him? Because obviously in the hands of the previous government this had become a tool of micro-party and micro-political arrangements to the voters, this is something that we need to bring it back to the right path and to its right use. Yes, it's a governmental possibility. Yes, it is an income support mechanism for affected producers, but there will be these criteria. The main issue we have to resolve and deal with, which will not be easy and wants a lot of work, is the issue of agricultural compensation through the central mechanism of the ELGA. And on the one hand, you see that we are talking, for example, about this particular issue, because it is damages that are not covered by the ELGA Regulation. If they were covered by the ELGA mechanism, we wouldn't have had this conversation right now. I therefore fully understand the request to extend the damage covered by the ELGA. However, I would also like to inform you in this Chamber of the financial results of the ELGA. Because this is one of the issues we have to deal with. The ELGA budget is 100 million, which is fully linked to the insurance contributions paid by producers. In these seventy million, twelve million are legally anticipated to form a reserve. We have a hundred and fifty million left for damage, to have a balanced budget. The losses that ELGA paid for the past three, four years, are of the order of two hundred million or more. This creates a deficit of 50 million in this regulation that has no additional losses. So if we do not deal with this soon - I am not telling you that the ELGA will have a problem tomorrow, it is not - very soon, the ELGA will have a problem. So, that's what we have to redeem. We also said that in this case we all want to involve the private insurance market in the payment of compensation for the agricultural world. So far I have to tell you that this is a political statement of ours, but we have to get involved with the insurance market, to see a fair way of participating, because it is also obvious and I want to say that we do not discuss a solution to which we will give the insurance pie to the private insurance market - to say what insurance pie is: people who pay for insurance contributions, but do not take any damage - and keep the heaviest piece, which are people who pay for insurance contributions, but systematically take losses. This is what you realize would lead to the collapse of the ELGA. So we have a complex exercise to be done. It was assumed that the previous government had developed preconditions and a proportionate study. I do not see anything like this at the moment anywhere on the horizon, the famous proportional study. It is therefore a job that we must start and do in depth to balance the problem of damage in the agricultural sector. We're starting to deal with it. Here we go. We'll see them very closely. I have, however, fully expressed the political intention and direction of the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-26-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Before I declare the sitting is closed, I would like to make two announcements to this House. First of all, I have the honour of announcing to the House that the Minister of Justice has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Article 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as in force, on 25 September 2019, a criminal case for the former State Secretary of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Anastasios Petropoulos. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to this House the proposal of thirty Members of the New Democracy Parliament who tabled a special parliamentary committee for a preliminary examination against the former Deputy Minister of Justice Dimitrios Papagelopoulos, in accordance with Article 86(3) of the Constitution, under Articles 153 et seq. the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and Article 5 of Law 3126/2003 on 'Prime responsibility of Ministers', as applicable, concerning the investigation of any offences committed in the performance of his duties. The proposal will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, printed, distributed to Members and placed on a special agenda, as laid down in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-26-S1-commons.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-26-S1-commons.u22	With the consent of the House at 10.34 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 27 September 2019, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
