ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Monday 18 March 2019. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 416/12-3-2019 by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "True shortages of staff at Kilkis Hospital". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 414/8-32019 by the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Koutsoukouou, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Procedures for medals at the expense of the services provided with the residual Pathological Clinic of the Amalada Hospital". 3. The question by number 421/12-3-2019 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Yiannis Delis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “In suspension the Surgery Clinic of the General Hospital of Kilkis, due to lack of staff.” 4. The Question No 412-3-2019 by Congressman I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on "Confidence of Personnel of the Fire Corps". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 417/12-32019 by the Deputy Minister of Attica, New Democracy, George Vlachos, to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: ‘Police breaks from the South-East Attica departments to strengthen the Attica Police Operations Directorate’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 420/12-32019 of the Greek Communist Party MEP Mr. Sakis Vardalis to the Minister of Finance concerning “ELVO S.A.”. 3. The Question No 413/8-32019 by Independent MEP I of Athens Mr Spyridonos Lykoudis to the Minister of Health on "the progress of implementing the reform of the health sector". 4. The question under number 384/26-2-2019 by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Erections related to primary health care in Heraklion Prefecture and the extension of the Cardiopathy Intensive Monitoring Unit (MPC) to the University Hospital of Heraklion (PAGNI)". 5. The Question No 390/26-2-2019 by MP Achaias, New Democracy, Jasona Fotella, to the Minister of Health, entitled “Without end” the deadlock with the family doctor. 6. The question by No 375/20-2-2019 that was raised by MP II of the Democratic Integration Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Involvement of Greece in the European Union's defence cooperation". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 355/12-2-2019 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance about the "providing the real estate to a Public Property Company (ETAD)". 8. The Question No 350/11-2-2019 by Mr Georgios Vlachos and Mr Georgios Vlachos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: ‘The Support Account of the National Bank of Greece (LEPETE)’. 9. The 351/11-2-2019 topical question by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association, Mr Ioannis Koutsoukou, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The feasibility and moderation of the transfer to the supreme building required by the lenders of fifty of the public buildings in the Municipality of Pyrgos". 10. Mr Leonida Gregorakos, Member of the Commission. — (ES) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, Mr Leonidas Gregorakos, on his excellent report. 11. The 332/5-2-2019 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, on "the chronic problems of the Psychiatric Clinic of the University General Hospital of Heraklion (PANGN)". 12. The 329/4-2-2019 topical question by MP Drama of the New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Creation of the Bran Branch of Hospital / Oncological Clinic at the General Hospital of Drama”. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The 322/4-2-2019 topical question by Congressman Larisa of Democratic Incorporation Mr Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Recalculations of chemical treatments'. 14. Observed. The Question No 262/9-1-2019 by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Emergent need to increase the military service". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 2932/31-10-10-2018 question by MP II of the Democratic Incorporation Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on "Democracy of the Municipal Closed Gymnasium of the 2nd High School" of Saint Varvaras from the Supreme Court. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS First of all, I will read out the timely questions which will not be discussed. Immediately afterwards, we will move on to the three questions which will be discussed in today's sitting and which will be answered by the Minister for Migration Policy, Mr Vitsa. Let me inform you in advance that, because of a health issue that the Minister has, he will exceptionally respond to. I think that is acceptable to everyone. The ninth under number 389/26-2-2019 topical question by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios State to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Announcement of a post Professor of Shiro-Beligomia at the Democritus University of Thrace", will not be discussed due to a blockade by the MP. The first under number 415/12-32019, the first question of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Changes in PPC tariffs", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr. George Stathakis. Cause: government mission abroad. The fifth question under number 405/5-3-2019, the second question of the Athens Congress of the Radical Left, Mr. Panagiotis Kouroublis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Refund fees for large hydroelectric power stations", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the relevant Minister for the Environment and Energy Mr. George Stathakis. Cause: government mission abroad. The second question under number 419/12-3-2019 is the first-round question of the F' Vice President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. George Lambroulis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Stop the installation of wind parks in the mountain peaks of Agrafi", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Minister and Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy of Mr. Georgios Statakis and Socrates Famelou. Cause: government mission abroad. The first under number 418/12-3-2019 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece.Giannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the Minister's decision on "Introduction of Students to Musical Studies", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religion Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. Cause: workload. The second question, under number 400/4-32019, on the second question of the Attica MP Mr. Athanasios Bourras to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Reopening of the General School of Magulas as an exam centre", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. Cause: workload. The fourth question under number 395/1-3-2019, on the second question of the Greek MP, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The new ministerial decision to introduce students into the music departments of the country will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. Cause: workload. The first question under number 4659/3-1-2019 of the circle of petitions and questions by the MP Drama of New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "on the solution to the partnership of the Democrat University of Thrace (ITH) - TEI of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace (AMTH)", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. Cause: workload. The tenth under No. 279/15-1-2019 topical question by MP Heraklion of Democratic Integration Mr. Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Direct actions to introduce Crete into the transport equivalent", will not be discussed, due to the obstruction of Deputy Minister of Shipping and Island Policy Mr. Nektarios Santoriniou. We have already discussed the same question of the honourable Member's content. The eighth Question No 388/26-2-2019 topical question by MP I Piraeus, New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The government is calling for a selective partition of municipalities with micro-party criteria, just before the municipal elections, causing confusion and inconvenience", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Haritsis. The reason for this is that it has parliamentary duties. The relevant letter from the Government Secretariat is also available for all the impediments. So we begin with the debate on the seventh under number 399/4-3-2019 topical question by Independent MEP B' Piraeus Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister for Migration Policy, on "the risk analysis report for 2019 of FRONTEX, showing that migration pressure remains high at the external borders of the European Union". Mr. Comrade, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Mr. President, good morning, Minister. With regard to the FRONTEX report, which we have received some time ago, there are increased flows. We have seen all the statistics and, to avoid eating the time from my report, I will read about the practical questions and then analyze your findings and answers. What are the exact numbers of illegally entering gateways either from Evros or from the islands of the eastern Aegean, in detail per admission island and at the same time what results from the Ministry's data on gender, age, country of origin of illegal immigrants? How many of them are financial and how many irregular immigrants? We ask this because in the mixture we have immigrants from Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria and unknown origin in the report. What is derived from the Ministry's data on the exact number of unaccompanied children from 2015 to today per year, what is their age, gender, and what is their fate? What are the provisions of the state? Are they hosted in special structures or other points and what? Is there any control by whom of their fate if they're joining a hosting centre? Have you detected malicious acts such as kidnappings, rapes, greedy acts against them? Are there any charges for organ trade? I say this because Mr Kotzias had made a statement in this regard, to which I have tabled a question on organ trade. The charges relate to the trade of organs of unaccompanied children and the involvement of diplomatic officials. Finally, is it part of the Ministry's planning to further strengthen border guarding, particularly in Evros, both in human resources and structures? Are the borders really guarded? What is your responsibility for border guarding? My last question isn't for you. He's left with the question about the Minutes. This question, Mr President, has long been tabled to both ministries, such as the Ministry of National Defence. Unfortunately, the Ministry of National Defence replied through the services that it is not competent to answer us about the land flows in Evros. It makes sense when ten - fifteen - twenty - thousands of people walk from Evros to ask the last question - are guarded and who keeps Evros in what procedures and goes 15 000 people - the Ministry of National Defense, which, for the Minutes, Mr Minister, said unreserved and therefore addressed the question to you. It does not, of course, concern you to guarding the borders. If you want, answer the rest and comment on my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Kammenos. Minister, you have the floor and I repeat that, for health reasons, the Minister will respond as well. You pass by, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, I understand the difficulty of an Independent MEP, that is to say that he does not have a party structure behind him to monitor all matters, to compile questions and to be able to be adequate in his role. I understand that because I have to tell you that your question does not have the character of the timely question, in the sense that it asks too much information, which, if we start discussing them one - one will take time. But I think I'm going to cover you in the sense that I'm going to give you all this information, I'm going to give it to you so that you can draw your own conclusions. At the same time, I have to say to you: the responsibility for these issues of border management lies with the Hellenic Police, namely the Armed Forces, who are responsible for protecting borders from an external hand. The Greek police manage it, and among the information I will give you will be Mrs. Gerovalis's report on the situation. We did a job so we could satisfy you. What can I tell you? From 2014 to 2018 one would say that from the point of view of nationalities, citizenship, the first place Syria has always occupied, namely Syrian nationals, Syrian refugees and close together are either Pakistan or Iraq or Afghanistan. I have to tell you at the same time that in the first few months of 2019 there is a significant change. Afghanistan has gone first, that is to say, we no longer have very incoming people from Syria. We have a relatively new phenomenon, to have a lot of people from the neighbouring country. That's the two new evidence. The third concern concerns unaccompanied minors. The unaccompanied minors in Greece are currently a little more than three thousand. The two thousand of them live in specific structures of the Ministry of Labour and Social Solidarity, the others in a safezone and in hotels and twenty-two under protective care, which we are trying to solve, so that no one gets into such a process. Anyway, I've prepared a whole file, I'll give it to you, you can draw your conclusions and make your report, or whatever you're making. Let me make a small remark, serious to me. The word'smuggling' refers to things that go in, for example, free of charge and not to people. I say this because - and you are relatively young, I mean at age - what we have decided in the Council of Europe and in the European Parliament is the incoming ones in this way that we enter to call them 'irregular immigrants'. It also seems in the question that he wrote you, I imagine your partner, you say on the one hand - I beg your pardon within my own introductory - 'lathing immigrants' and on the other you write 'irregular immigrants' as if it were another charge. The same thing, so we don't get mixed up with a Babiniotis, Mr. Babiniotis does and gets what's in society and puts it in his dictionary. It doesn't mean he agrees. These are the basics. Now the last question, although you certainly understand that I am not competent, but that does not matter, the government is responsible, so every minister can answer it properly. Special measures have been taken for the Evros region. There is within the overall storage and operation plan of the Greek Police a special storage plan for the area of land borders. This storage plan has within it the recognition, reception and prevention. With very satisfactory results...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u5	The Department of Defense?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u6	No, the Citizen's Department. In fact, a few months ago I visited Evros and talked to the men of the Greek Police. The results are very satisfactory. Of course, in my opinion, most of the good results - to bless our beards a little - come from the relationship that the Ministry of Migration Policy has developed with the Turkish Ministry of Interior, so that they can also take a number of measures from their own. I will conclude with an issue that has nothing to do with your own question, and I will say things that have happened over the last week. The management of the European Commission may not and must not exceed their responsibilities. They help, they don't control. And I say that, without any criticism.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u7	You've got a second. I'm just reminding you. It is important, of course, that you reply to the second part asked by Mr Kammenos. If you're done, let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u8	Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u9	Thank you. Mr. Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Minister, for taking the trouble - rarely does the ministers, and I tell you that because I know your sensitivity to many issues and parliamentary control - to gather information from the other ministries to answer me. I was waiting again for the Department of National Defence to answer the third part of my question about border protection. The world - I will say it this way for the most popular - when it comes to a neighborhood, cafeteria or family, and reads a report that in 2018, sixteen thousand pedestrians from the land borders of Evros are being created with intrinsic basic questions. I'm also talking about the Evros area, but also about Piraeus, where I am, and anywhere. How do fifteen thousand people pass from guarded borders from the army? We had the incident with our two officers last year, we have illegal Turks coming in, arrested, with bulldozers, with guns. You've lived and handled them very well. This question has not been answered. I understand the role of the Ministry of Citizen Protection, Mrs Gerovasili, which, as you said - and we will read it afterwards - I do not doubt that she is doing her job very well and in collaboration with the Ministry of Interior of Turkey, but remains the question: How do we know from the sixteen thousand to walk, I say again - not by boat that is harder to control in the Aegean - through the moat of Evros, from the passages, that one of them is not a terrorist, does not bear a weapon? What's the role of the Army? That's what we're asking. And that's how my question started. I mean, if one bears a gun, a bomb, it's violence, or it shoots someone - I beat a beating, that's never happening - who controls it? It'll be late if he arrives at the Citizen's Department. We'll have to guard the Army. If the patrol or patrol, the onboard or the pedestrian, sees a horde twenty, thirty, a hundred people pass, how does the patrol leave them? It is not about you, but you must know - and I say it from the Minutes - what is the source of the question and the source of concern. I understand the management - and I will read and I am sure you are doing the best - but this question has not been answered. And I would like to say at some point also from the Ministry - I will put the question to the Ministry of National Defence again - that this question should be answered very specifically. We see the streams of 2019, as they are now coming out. We have again a thousand and fifty-nine out of land, two thousand three hundred forty-eight - if the post is correct, I imagine it is right of your own evidence - on our islands: in Lesbos nine hundred seventeen two, in Chios three hundred twenty-three, in Samos four hundred fifty-nine, in Leos three hundred ninety-five, in Koss sixty-four, in Symposium thirty-three and three in Rhodes, according to the figures of 2019. Small numbers. They increase the pressure on the structures that exist. You know it. You've done it. And I agree with you. We're gonna have to do something. To close, to say here that it is important, on the days we pass, the morality of the political world, the morality of the police, which has a very difficult task to do with the immigrants, and with any other civil or non-violence in the cities, to be high. We also saw the incident in New Zealand. We must be very careful. The morale must be high. And for the Minutes alone - and forgive me - I will say that I disagree with the rigour of the sentence on this lad, the Quaestor, who said "Macedonia laudable", falling by parachute. I'm still a Special Force officer, too. His sentence could be exhausted in a ten-day imprisonment, disciplinary control, yes - because he brought his cell phone - but not expelled from school. Because for us the cruisers and the spirit of the Armed Forces when by someone for three jumps you remove the right to take the "pillar" is something that will bring to its entire life. And I want to tell Manolius that we support him. We're with him. He shouldn't have brought the phone. I've done this job. I've done it, and I know it. It's his cell phone's fault. To me, his sentence was extremely severe, insulting for this House. Yes, his control, yes, a ten-day imprisonment that way. And I hope that the Penal Code, as Mrs Gerovas said, will be running away from everything we have had these days: a great deal of disagreement with the recommendation made by the Committee on Legal Affairs in relation to the management of molotovs, crises, attacks, offences and everyone's rights, in order to bring security back to the citizen, which has to do with both native violence and outward violence. Finally, I agree, as you say, with regard to illegal immigrants. For me, whoever doesn't have papers is wrong. It's not a product. It's human life, human nature. But legality and the rule of law must apply everywhere. So when someone comes into a foreign country without bearing the formal details - his passport or the reasons why he enters it - enters wrongly. And that's the only reason my name is on it. No racism and no other concept of quality from me. Most are tortured, but as we see they are also economic immigrants - from Afghanistan, Iraq and other countries - who come to stay in Greece or go to another country in Europe. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Kammenos. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. To give some additional information, Mr Kammenos: In 2014 they submitted a request for international protection of nine thousand four hundred thirty-one people from various countries. I told you about the composition before. In 2015, thirteen thousand, eighty-seven, because they were leaving. In 2016, fifty thousand fifty-three, in 2017, fifty-eight thousand six hundred forty-two. And in 2018 sixty-sixteen thousand ninety-nine. Unfortunately, the pressure, although compared to 2015, has fallen by 97%, remains high. In the first quarter of 2019, we have an increase of 16% compared to the first quarter of 2018. That's to get a sense of the thing, how we're right now and about the kind of help. Sometimes the aid given at this level and by the European Union, I think, is not sufficient. We are working in this direction to strengthen this aid. That's the first and the main one. Two. You have no doubt that the Greek police, along with other special forces, are following the conduct with this whole process. So we are fully aware of what is going on, the possible risks, and we are working with INTERPOL and other international police forces. That's why there's a perfect silence. The silence that comes out, I'd say, it's a product of effort. It's not a quiet thing to do on its own. I think it is clear that credit must be given to the Greek police. It's important to me that we all work together. This is a global issue of humanity in particular. There's more to it than that. I am very pleased with the last position of Commissioner for Migration Policy, Mr Avramopoulos, who was a few days ago in Greece and said that all Greek forces - of course I do not put the Golden Dawn - should cooperate with each other, because this is a pan-European, global and national issue. Mr. Cammene, I'm also presenting the relevant documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the third under the number 394/27-2-2019 topical question by the Member of Parliament, Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou, to the Minister of Migration Policy, on the subject: "Appointment of a sectoral secretary of the Ministry of Migration Policy". Here, Mr. Colleague, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I would like to express my disdain - and I imagine this House - for the terrorist blow against two religious places of prayer, two jams in New Zealand, and forty-nine dead and many injured. Let us hope that the international community, but also the competent institutions in the countries, will be able to face this terrorist blind threat, which only creates hatred, victims and leaves behind devastated. I come to the question now. Minister, I asked this question to highlight three things. Firstly, I wanted to highlight the status quo by which your Government is implementing the first of a number of positions with a choice of PSA to the sectoral administrative secretaries, so as to prove in practice that not only do you collect the state, but you continue with a greater depth of partyisation through photographic notices and with elements that are fully constructed, so that you can reach the desired result. Two. There has been a lot of talk of the new Secretarys-General with a term of office that the state will be colonising. The institutions had returned a series of notices. Not her. She's the first one to come out. I would also like to highlight - and I do not do so at the level of staff, but at the level of your Government's policies, which I think you understand - and these methods of the 'poor state' type, which you think you will do and reach the desired result, but no one will get any news of this engineering of power. It's just things. In the FEK dated 25-2-2019 Mr Miltiadis Klapas was appointed as the sectoral secretary of the Ministry of Migration Policy. He resigned from his post as Secretary-General who previously held. I have found that the same person is changing his or her status, and indeed, with his or her term of office, so that he can follow the policy that he has been pursuing for the next three, four years. In fact, through these notices you have in mind, but call on the AACC simply to determine whether the conditions exist, to make photography notices. The first is a superintendent proof. I would like you, Minister, to explain to us how it is possible for all of these qualifications that a sectoral administrative secretary can have in the Ministry to choose the specifics with such great photographic loyalty, so that before we open the file, we can know who will ultimately be chosen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Papatheodorou. Here, Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Papatheodorou, I'd say it's an unfortunate example of you, but everyone thinks what they think. You know, of course, that this procedure has been established under Law No.4369/16. For our part, we had to put the outline, one would say, of the qualifications that a respective secretary of my own Ministry has to have. Because I don't understand, I guess you'll explain to me what these special circumstances are. I don't understand. At least in the notice I signed, there was no special treaty. The process went straight to ASPD. Forty-eight proposals were submitted to the AACC, that is, forty-eight people wanted this position. The AACC has made a series of meetings and I will give you the copies of the minutes of these meetings under Mr Lascaratos. He could propose to the Minister up to three, of which the two civil servants certainly did, and he concluded to propose two. I have chosen, in full consciousness, that I did something well, Mr. Klapa, who has offered too much and is, you would say, the first to carry institutional memory now and will be very useful to any Minister in the next few years, based on his term of office, since he has handled issues from the protection of asylum seekers, until 'Golden Visa', he has set up the respective committees and I imagine you do not raise any question about his ability. If you put it in, you'll tell us. The question is that it is quite strange - and that is why I said 'hard' - that there is a second one, since there were two proposals. The point is that the second, Mr. Pantelatos, is also known to me. And I'll explain right away what I mean by my acquaintance. I mean, he was my three-year partner in my office at the Ministry of National Defence, mainly responsible for immigration. Yes, he also has a higher score than Mr. Clapa. I chose Mr. Klapa, because I consider Dimitris, Mr. Pantelato, more operational. The only thing I can say is that it's a process in everything objective that proves there's excellent in all the places where they can do the job. You understand what I'm saying. I'll give you the minutes, as I said before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Here, Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u18	Minister, you know - if anything - that as long as we are faced with this House, I am diligent. So I don't think that's true.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u19	One example is that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u20	Yeah. You set up a photographic proclamation to reach the desired result. That's right. I'll prove it to you with a few clues. That is why I said earlier that you believe that because the institutions did not find it, no one else could read the clarity of the AACC. You set up a procedure from the beginning. So here's how you set her up, how beautifully you set her up. It's a photographic device. There is no other notice to any other Ministry that has this condition, 'eight years in a high position of responsibility'. What is a high-responsibility position, Minister? And why was this not used in any other provision, in any other notice, in any other ministry? Because the candidate - by chance! - he had eight years in the previous high position, whether the Secretary-General or the mayor, Minister. Forty-eight came, apart from the others excluded because they didn't have eight years. I've searched too many notices. Setting's here. I've searched too many notices. Three years? Five years? Six years? In the meantime, you have not ended up among you - because every ministry wants to take their own after - in a bosom, say 'five years','six years','seven years','seven years', 'eight years'. This is 'eight years in a high position'. 'High position', so I have looked into it - and you, too, are looking for it by journalists - there is no other notice. There is not one of you to the other Sectoral Secretary of the Ministry of Migration Policy. It seems that he does not need or have had the high responsibility. Do you know how we understand it's a photographic proclamation? When we see the curriculum. When we look at the candidate's CV, we see whether or not it corresponds to that position. Indeed, Mr Pantelatos is the other candidate. Of the forty-eight leave forty-six, because no one had the eight years and no one knew what the "high position" is, while you identified it within the notice. It's paragraph b. So, in formal qualifications - because here we have to see, it has been posted, I have looked at it - Mr Klapas with an excellent 'thousand' takes 'two hundred and thirty-eight'. Mr. Pantelatos gets 'three hundred and fifty-six', a higher score. But we are coming to the interview and there in the interview we should at least save the pretexts. In the interview, with an excellent 'three hundred and fifty', you say - Mr Klapas - I did not say so, you said so - takes 'three hundred and twenty-two'. You've done it all over the ministries, you've done it in the House. It is the well-known trick, 'we change it with the interview'. "Thirty-two" in "thirty-five"! Mr. Pantelatos is not so excellent, he took "Two hundred ninety-six". However, because you cannot get your other partner out, it becomes the sum and Mr. Clapas takes "five hundreds of sixty", Mr. Pantelatos takes "six hundreds of eight". However, you must choose. And who do you choose? Mr. Klapa, to stay - how long is the term? - for three, four years. Listen, Minister, this is called the setting-up of a contract notice. And since I am asking exactly this question to prove it, you have to accept that you have the opportunity to set up notices to all ministries, to have the desired effect of some of your own members in the next period. I should also like to say to you in the same way that I will propose - from whatever position we may be in the next House - that these procedures be reviewed. Because when you were put back by the institutions, you had done these and worse. Now you just thought no one's gonna see it. That's the truth. I am sorry that others might have been able to put themselves in a process of colonisation rather than a party. And that shows the absolute state of government. Against that I am. I am not against Mr Klapa, whose few qualifications we have been able to see so far. So far your policy has failed. So you can't talk about excellence. On the other hand, we highlight this process here, to denounce it to every ministry where we can find the same evidence. And be sure we'll find them in every department, in every place you're trying to set up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much Mr. Papatheodorou. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u22	As you can see, Mr. Papatheodorou, what you were saying about Mr. Klapas you could have said about Mr. Pantelatos if I had chosen Mr. Pantelato. It's very obvious. So it's a very strange photographic proclamation for at least two people, i.e. it's a photograph for two, so it's not. The second mistake you make, of course, is that you get the years of experience that one has to have in such a serious position. Also, for some reason - perhaps because you are not well informed - you do not understand that Mr Klapas, whom we are discussing, does not have eight years in a high position, but seventeen and a half. He was eight years Vice Mayor of Preveza, eight years...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u23	Is the vice mayor's position a high position? Is that the deputy mayor's responsibility, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u24	What do you think? You haven't made...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Papatheodorou, you don't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u26	It's okay, I hear him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u27	It's good to hear about the Minutes, and people listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u28	In a municipality like Preveza, we have to say that the position is too high. He was eight years as vice mayor, eight years as mayor of Preveza and a year and a half as secretary-general. So it's 17-and-a-half years. The problem with everyone else was not that they had eight years in the high position with this position. You will see - because I will give them to you - that there are most people who are now starting their career. I hope that they will go very well and help the country. So I also think that this is an argument and there are no special circumstances. The third question concerns the initiation of this procedure. Never of the institutions for this position - and at least two of the Ministry's three positions - did not sound 'kitch' for the whole process. Don't forget that the interview is not taken from the Ministry but from the ADP. Will we now build a conspiracy theory that I'm in control of ASA and I'm telling them what questions they're going to ask? I can tell you this: I like them and I appreciate them both in particular. If anyone told me who you like most, I'd probably tell Dimitri. But that's not the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u29	If it's such a family case...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u30	But that's why I told you he prefers ASA...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u31	I understand your position. You don't know who to choose.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u32	It prejudges the AUSA two skilled people, whom I happen to know. One, Dimitris Pantelatos worked very hard with Yannis Daphilis during the first three years of the migratory crisis, worked in Afghanistan, etc. The other has set up the Protection Department for Asylum Applicants and has done a number of other things. I had to choose. I have chosen the person I consider most appropriate at this stage and for the sake of the Ministry and of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the sixth question under number 401/4-3-2019 of the second question of the new Republic of Athens MEP Miltiadis Varvitsiotis to the Minister of Migration Policy on the subject: "The situation in the hosting of refugees - migrants in Samos". Mr. Comrade, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, taking the thread from the previous topical question, if we really are talking about competence and inability - regardless of whether they have a responsibility or not - those involved, Minister, with Samo must, in fact, get the prize for incompetence! I've been to Samos' hotspot over seven, eight times. Never did, but I never saw the head of the Asylum Service overseeing Samos. Never! I have seen a commander who is unable to give an answer to the situation of the indifference he commands. It's disgraceful. It's disgraceful. Last September, the North Aegean Region considered the hotspot to be sanitaryly inappropriate. Thousands of people are on the slopes around the hotspot, staying on improvised scenes, without any health coverage. Since September, not a single new chemical toilet has been installed, not even a new shower container has been installed. There has been no progress in normalising the situation. None! And you, as an observer, are coming to say: 'Big problem in Samos'. Thank you so much, I know! But what are you doing? The time comes when the flows will increase, because winter is always the one with the low flows and in summer flows increase. How will you welcome the new flows, Minister? In those infrastructures? In these circumstances? What have you prepared? Because you're telling us that one or the other were capable, they were your partners. But this is what all your policy is judged to be a failure. It is judged as a failure at all levels, particularly in humanitarian, where you have now been saying that SYRIZA is the power of humanism. No humanism! Inhuman politics, when you stack four thousand three hundred people into a hotspot that is capable of managing seven hundred, and because of its geography it doesn't get any expansion. Minister, at some point you must also answer the citizens of the northern Aegean about what you must do, but also the citizens of the rest of the country, but also the European citizen who, in the report by the European Commission, asks for you to be held responsible. We as a opposition from last year when you brought the asylum law to you said that this is 'aspirin for cancer'. A year later, his results seem. No real acceleration in the asylum procedure, the European Commission again raised your alarm code the other day and asked you to make better use of the funds and to make more refunds. The day before yesterday, we were with Mr. Mitsotakis in Lesvos. Eighteen thousand went to Lesvos and three hundred left to Turkey. Three hundred! That's the number. How long will this incomplete policy continue? I believe that this policy has an ideological sign for you. Clearly. It is advisable and it is one: you do not believe that the illegals should be returned. Do you want to tell them 'illegal', do you want to tell them 'irregulars', do you want to say'migrants'? Tell them what you want, it doesn't matter. Those who are not entitled to remain in the country, for us they must go, for you they remain. And that is the result of an ideological political decision, the result of which we are seeing today, both in the islands and in the inland. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, my colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u36	Mr Varvitsiotis, we first need to resolve a matter between us. You have again made a statement last week that I am not coming to the House to answer you. And you surprise me for that thing. In fact, you are squeezing your ten questions to which I have not answered them. As you can see, I would like to know these ten questions that I have not answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u37	Here I have them, I'll testify to you, if you want, so that you can have them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u38	Yes, I would like to know them, because my information says that I took part in ten meetings of topical questions in this House. As far as you are concerned, you have tabled seventeen questions and topical questions, nine of them the six of which have been answered, the two have not been answered because they were not ours and one has not answered because, oh of the miracle, you have asked the same question with the same content on the very next day of the timely question you have tabled with the entire New Democracy Parliamentary Group. Of course, then, we also had the strange thing that your Chief of Staff two days later asked for a debate in the House or ignoring that his group's group had asked a question or assuming that you did not work well, not you yourself, but the whole parliamentary group and you together. I have answered two topical questions and you have asked me two topical questions yourself. In one, which you again denounced me, I was in Vienna. I appreciate the fact that you think I can be in two parts of Europe at the same time. The last time I answered, I was in Brussels, I arrived at 23: 00 and I asked for three questions to be taken in one week. Alas! What, I'm afraid of you? No, of course not. Neither are you afraid of me nor I fear of you. Let's get these things straight. Of the nine questions, I've been telling you I've answered at six. The one question I did not answer is whether any drug has been given to refugees in Scaramaga in the knowledge of the CEDEFOP. This is a matter of the Ministry of Health, not the Ministry of Civil Protection. In relation to this, I should like to say this: do not distort things. I raised Samos's issue as a problem when everyone was looking at Moria. I was saying that in Moria there is a system and Samos is the problem and she goes by saying. I don't want to assure you. Samos's problem will solve it. Yesterday three hundred and eighty people left Samos and everyone will be gone. I'm gonna solve it, not in the sense that I'm gonna lower the numbers. I'm gonna evacuate the center and that's gonna happen in the next time. A new center will be built in the Samos Slaughterhouse. We're in the final process, we're out with the local owners. The cost will be about 10,000-12,000 if I'm not mistaken, a month and a modern reception and identification centre will be built for thousands of two hundred people. This means that in order to function, with those who are at this moment and those who are coming and leaving, we will have closed down in various ways. There's got to be a thousand two hundred left. In other words, two thousand eight hundred, of those who are now, plus those who are coming, or returning to the area. You are insisting on the issue of refunds and insisting on some directors from the European Commission. And I say: The European Union-Turkey Joint Declaration, some of them and you have read it among them? What does this joint statement say? That the proceedings are over. You accused me of having to get another thousand employees. I am also impressed by one thing, on an issue, which is the real problem in Samos, you never mention - because it involves your representative - the issue of vulnerability and the speed of vulnerability.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u39	What do you mean by that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u40	I mean the performance to be given in relation to the characterisation of the vulnerability that is a medical issue. So you're saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u41	And what do we do with it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u42	You're not referring, Mr. Varvichiotis. Do you understand that? Secondly, you say: "Anikan the Commander of Samos", a woman who currently manages increased flows with amazing difficulties. A lot of people - I don't put Balbakakis in Lesvos, knowing him - would have lifted his hands up. This woman fights every day without help. When I say without help, I mean from the local authorities and especially from the Antiregion of Samos, which does everything possible to prevent the solution. He's going to the Mytilians and he's organizing gatherings, he's looking for ways to avoid building a new reception and identification centre and he's going by saying. But that's gonna happen. No matter what they do, no matter what they try, in any political municipal future and invest in them, they will.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u43	Minister, let me remind you that you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u44	I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Varvitsiotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, first of all I would like to put the unanswered questions in the Minutes so that there is no question and that I will not waste my time on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u47	I imagine my unanswered questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u48	Of course, they're yours, yours. They are my questions or other colleagues. Let's move on. This candy that the situation on the islands is caused by someone who may be involved, who has a party or a friendly or ideological ending in the New Democracy, to end. You are fully responsible, government, you have not involved any local government in this story, no one. Have you consulted the local authorities? Have you given the regions and municipalities money from the funds and immigration policy? Have you given them responsibility and asked for responsibility? How do you do that? And then - you, much more elegantly, your predecessor, much more steadfastly, even displayed Facebook posts - you say: 'My pleasure creates a problem or my suffering creates a problem'. Your own policy creates a problem. To Samos, not to mention that we discovered her now, I went last January. I pointed it out to you with my public statements and places in the House. Nothing. In September we went with Mr. Mitsotakis. Nothing, no reaction. In December you, too, gather together as we have seen them all the actors in Samos and people say: 'No longer can't be done. And we're coming in March to tell us you're going to build a new center. You know, they're full of promises. It's like Moria's sewage pipeline. You had announced him when you were at the Ministry of National Defence - since 2016 this - and it has not even started, yet today that we are talking about has not started. If this doesn't look incompetent, what does it look like? We blame you - and I told you before - for a misguided policy, but we blame you for the way in which you manage the problems and the objectives and the achievement of the objectives which you put yourself in. You said in December that you will resolve the Samos issue and you will come to the House today in March and tell us that you will resolve it permanently by building a centre for a thousand five hundred, when today in Samos we have four thousand and three hundred. We have four thousand three hundred. In fact, no one ever believes in the islands your policy. You said that the European Commission is obsessed with returns and so on. This is the framework of the agreement. And it is not only the European Commission that you have directed the International Organisation for Migration to rent houses to stay here and at the same time do not give the direction to strengthen the programme of voluntary returns. Why has the voluntary return program collapsed? Why in 2014 were 20 thousand voluntary returns and today is under ten thousand? Why? Does it not show a political, ideological and pragmatic aiming for people to stay in the country? And let me tell you the last part, because I heard it before you said what a good job you were doing with unaccompanied minors and the Ministry of Social Solidarity. Hair! His report, which he makes every month, shows that he has not improved the situation at all. Even today we are talking about a thousand nine hundred eighty children, who stay out of protection and stay on the street in unknown addresses and anywhere. He hasn't made a single seat in the past year. This year she has nine hundred forty - three seats last year at this time she had nine hundred and fifty - six. No progress. Where's the successful policy? And you think that these executives, who say they managed this crisis, that they should save and well give credit and give them titles and put them in permanent positions, transfer their inability to the next governments as well? Oh, no! We do not want to work with these people who have brought the country typing to the inability to deal with, not any more a crisis, but regular flows. Because what is happening in the Aegean is not a crisis. Twenty-five thousand came in 2017, twenty-five thousand, about, came in 2018. That's all the numbers. Today begins a new crisis and a pressure from the side of Evros. And it was very appropriate to ask Mr Kammenos how sixteen thousand people crossed the most protected land borders in the country walking in the country without stopping them. It is a reasonable question to which, at last, you must give answers about what you will do with border care, about what you will do with the situation of the islands, about how you will make a policy that will give asylum where it is truly entitled to protection, but it will close the door to anyone illegally seeking to enter the country with a view to changing to an economic immigrant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr. Varvitsiotis, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u50	I'll say it quickly and one by one. In 2017, there were five and a half thousand third-country citizens. In 2018, fifteen and a half thousand, of which two thirds are known to be Kurds from Afrín, through a corridor opened by the neighboring country, so that the defeated of Afrín pass to a safer place. They were beaten, that is, and they were given time. That's the one. Secondly, what do you say, Mr. Varvichiotis? Are we serious? Twenty thousand willing on the basis of the IM's programme? Are you referring to the Albanians? Get me that evidence. They don't exist, because first of all, there was no programme then! And you sit down and tell me such things in the Greek Parliament?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u51	How he didn't exist!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u52	Twenty thousand?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u53	Of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u54	And last year, a thousand five hundred, two thousand? Really? What does the joint statement say? The joint declaration says that we give Turkey 3 billion to keep these populations in their own country and as a corrective mechanism they are returns, after all the procedures provided for in the Geneva Convention have been carried out. Don't you know that? You know it! Are we going to discuss a national topic in this way? It's not possible! Thirdly, you asked the question about Samos' finances. Don't think I forgot. The first part of the formation of Samos's CYPD concerns you - not yourself - because it is known that this was created under the Government of New Democracy, at the top, with a capacity of a hundred fifty people and we had arrived to be within a thousand people. And it's a closed C.T. You know that. The second part you know was created by the Ministry of Citizen Protection, i.e. the two "pezoules", to name it technically. It doesn't make any sense to say that I was then arguing to be there and I wanted it to be done elsewhere, not there, in the Slaughterhouses, elsewhere. It doesn't matter. It is important to reduce the population, evacuate the island. And finally, don't get confused. I don't mess with man. I say that the central issue, which is vulnerability, never mention it. And you're also doing a micro-believable thing, in my opinion, in your question. I come out and say that, on the Turkish side and on the side of Samos, traffickers who do not exist - not that they do not exist at all, probably exist - in Chios. But I'm not in charge of looking for them. I also mentioned it to the Turkish Interior Minister that there cannot be military areas across Samos - on the border across Samos, as you know, it is a military area - and they can go from there to Samos. We do not have a corresponding military area to Turkey. The helipad that has been in existence, as you know, does not work for too many years. So, here we have a problem. Shall we sit down, come to my office, have an open conversation, find solutions? Yes! Shall we do to Chios this Samos thing? And we're going for December. Is it possible to tell me such things? Is it possible to have the threat of 'Zorba', of the weather phenomenon, and to stand up for the Vice-President and say that in Samos we do not give a single place, do we not give anything - in the bad conditions that you and I have said since August that they are marginal - if anything happens to protect them? That way he's going to be a mayor? Let's get out. Rejoice him! So I say - to close - that we will build the new reception and identification centre. This reception and identification centre will be clearly smaller, it will be seven kilometers from the Vathi of Samos. It'll be in the old slaughterhouses and surrounding area. There will be protectionist measures so that there is no concern about the local population. And those who are at the moment will either be judged vulnerable and crossed into the mainland or returned. Returns are made. Last Monday, five more left. You gonna tell me five? Yeah, five.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u55	But five? Five-five can't do it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u56	What am I supposed to do? Let me make you head judge - you're neither a judge nor a judge - make more decisions. But they're coming too and they're swinging our fingers. And I look and say, what returns does Germany make to Afghanistan, for example, which has good relations? Nothing. We have a given. And I am sitting with Mr Varvitsiotis and politically fighting within Parliament on an existing system for how efficient this system can be and be humanitarian at the bottom. And I am going to committee and asking: what is the corresponding system in Italy? What is the corresponding system in Malta? What is the corresponding system in France, Spain? There are no systems. It's a blame game! And we as a parliament are going to sit down and submit to the blame game - did we remember Yannis with the two "n" now - of the others? Oh, no. We are owed by the Europeans for what we do about immigration! And I can say that I am proud of these people who work with the Ministry of Migration Policy and will use them any government tomorrow or tomorrow, because they have both the experience and the ability and the attitude and the knowledge in this matter. And under no circumstances will I accept or accept that Greece from - no-one would say - a protective force of humanity is a danger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELEITERIOS VENIZELOS", forty-two students and students and seven teachers from the 17th Elementary School of Thessaloniki and from the Elementary Schools of Vasiliki and Sfakion Lefakada. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Unfortunately, you're at the end of the meeting. It is Parliamentary control - a debate on topical questions - and that is why you see a few colleagues in the House. The theme of the day was migration policy and the major issues for management and the problems that may arise from the migration flows in our country and the Minister for Migration Policy, Mr. Vitsas, replied to three questionable colleagues, Mr. Kammenos, Mr. Papatheodorou and Mr. Varvitsiotis. I would like to make two more announcements to this House: MP II of Athens Mr. Georgios Koumoutsakos seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from 18 March to 20 March 2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u58	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Also, Congressman II of Athens Mr.Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis asks for permission from a short-day absence abroad from March 17th to March 22nd 2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u59	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, the minutes of the sittings of Tuesday 15 January 2019, Wednesday 16 January 2019, Thursday 17 January 2019, Friday 18 January 2019 and Monday 21 January 2019 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u60	The minutes of Tuesday 15 January 2019, Wednesday 16 January 2019, Thursday 17 January 2019, Friday 18 January 2019 and Monday 21 January 2019 were therefore validated. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-15-S1-commons.u61	With the consent of the House at 11.10 p.m. the sitting is closed next Monday, March 18, 2019, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
