ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Discussion on the report by the Intergroup of Parliamentary Committee on Populations pursuant to Rule 45(2) of the Rules of Procedure, on a proposal from the Government, pursuant to Protocol No 854/20-2-2019 of the relevant Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Theanos Fotou. The debate will take place on a similar basis under Rule 137(2) of the Rules of Procedure, namely the procedure for the generalised question. In accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents, I propose that all twenty-three members should participate in the debate - Members of the intergroup parliamentary committee on demographics, if they so wish. In particular, the debate will begin with the speech by MP Achaias of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, chairman of the committee and now Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Sis Anagnostopoulou, with a speech time of seven minutes. We will then enter the speakers' speeches on the single list, pursuant to Rule 65(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which will consist of two circles of speakers and exclusively of Members who have been members of the committee, varying from one another in proportion to the power of the parliamentary group represented in the committee. The first cycle will consist of thirteen MPs, who will participate as follows: five MPs from SYRIZA, three MPs from New Democracy, each MEP from the other four parliamentary groups and one from the Independent Members. The second cycle will consist of nine MPs, five SYRIZA MPs, two New Democracy MPs and two Independent MPs. The speakers and speakers in the single catalogue will be given the floor for seven minutes without a second-right. The speaking time of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups is the one provided for in Rule 97(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure. In other words, the length of speech by the President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and the President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group will be up to twenty minutes, the Chairman of the Democratic Independence Group, the Chairman of the People's Association Parliamentary Group - Golden Dawn, the President of the JRC Parliamentary Group and the President of the Centro Parliamentary Group up to 15 minutes. On completion of the speech by the chairman of the committee and the two circles of speakers, the relevant Minister will take the floor for 15 minutes. Then we will enter the circle of speeches of the Vice-Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, who will speak up to ten minutes each for once. If, however, a speaker from a parliamentary group has been given a precedent, his deputy will be given the floor for six minutes. On behalf of the Government, I propose, in accordance with parliamentary practice and the decision of the Conference of Presidents, that the Minister responsible should close the sitting, if he wishes, with a secondary term of ten minutes. I think you have all seen the report, which is very important for what is happening in Greece. I therefore propose that the sitting be closed at the latest at 15.30 p.m. If the list is exhausted earlier, the meeting will obviously end earlier. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. The floor is for the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, the Chairman of the Committee and now Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Sia Anagnostopoulos, to speak for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President of the House, ladies and gentlemen, we are pleased to present to Parliament today the report by the intergroup parliamentary committee on demographics. Our committee was set up on 22-5-2017 following a unanimous decision of the plenary on 5-5-2017, on a proposal from the President of the Democratic Compensation, Mrs Gennimata. The intergroup's work lasted one and a half years - up to 15-12-2018 - and many bodies and persons were heard, I consider it to be much more than any other time. Whoever asked us to come, came and had the comfort of speaking. From the position of the President, I should like to begin by thanking the President of the Parliament who has given us every opportunity to carry out and complete its work and in a scientific manner, giving us the opportunity to invite scientists from abroad. I would also like to thank, on behalf of the committee, the scientists who generously and without payment, have given us all possible scientific assistance, but, above all, have drawn up the scientific report, which is due to the fact that we are presenting today. On behalf of the Committee, I will therefore thank Mr.Vyrona Kotzamiani, Professor at the University of Thessaly, Mr. Dionysios Balourdou, Researcher, at the National Centre for Social Studies, Mrs. Anastasia Kostaki, Professor of the Athens University of Economics and Ms. Alexandra Tragaki, Deputy Professor at the "Charokope" University. The event was voted by a majority vote by the committee from the parliamentary groups of all parties except Golden Dawn and the Communist Party of Greece, who submitted their own reports and have, of course, joined the end of the finding. Finally, I would like to thank all the members of the Intergroup for the fruitful cooperation we have had. Despite the contradictions, despite the different perspectives, we have managed to find some consensus fields, which are reflected in the report. I would like to say a few words: firstly, the demographic problem is complex and it is not for destructive purposes. It is a problem that can trigger us - and it must trigger us - to first see ourselves as a society, in relation to what policies have been pursued in the past, which were successful, which have failed and what can be done from now on. It is also very important that we see ourselves as a society in relation to other European societies, to see what has happened there, if there have been more successful policies. What we can say as the first point is that demographic is dealt with by combining policies - social policies, economic policies, labour policies - and, of course, above all policies relating to the same - that is, the welfare state. Second point: it is not enough to point out by destroying that, in fact, our country since 1980 has had a great decline in births, a fall that since 1996 has reached its level of 1.3 children per woman, a level which the journalists call 'low birth level'. Now in the crisis we've fallen under this one-one-24 kids per woman. It is not enough, therefore, to say this or to negatively address the ageing population, that the elderly and the elderly are more than young people. And, of course, the birth-death balance is negative in favour of deaths. What it takes immediately is to see how this birth reduction is handled, to see what we can do in the long term. Easy answers are not available and demographics are not solved within five years. It takes a long time. So what will be made today must be with a decade ahead, at least 20 years. The first big point we made in looking at Greece in relation to the other European countries is that the countries of the European south have the same problem with us. It does not present such countries as France, such as the Scandinavian countries, etc. So what we have seen - and the scientists have seen it - is that the southern countries did not have a strong social state, a real welfare state. In Greece, the concept of a welfare state began in 1980. It was not followed, however, in a firm way and in a consistent manner, but fragmented and fragmented. Other countries such as France or Germany, for example, have built a strong social state since the 1960s when they started to have this problem. The Eastern European countries also have a demographic problem, but that is more due to neoliberal policies, which have led to Brain Drain. We therefore have in the rules of cruel austerity imposed by a lack of a strong social state and austerity policies. Another thing we have come up with is that the social state must be horizontal. It is not only about vulnerable groups - of course there being much stronger - but also horizontally up to middle classes. I mean, the isology of the child. You have a social state from one child to all children, with an increase, of course, as long as the number of children increases. The benefits policy, limited only to vulnerable groups, cannot be understood as a welfare state. Especially when this is not transparent, it leads to other stories. I shall conclude, Madam President, although I have had a great deal to say - with reference to labour stability and the harmonisation of work and working life. We cannot deal with the demographic problem by turning back to attitudes, because a society cannot come back. A and Omega are the racial equality of women and men. Women's emancipation is a very important thing. That must not be interrupted. It is only - and this must be deepened and the state must help in this direction. Labour stability, collective agreements, minimum wage. In other words, the scientists talked about all this, which is what we are talking about anyway. To conclude, in order not to waste any more time, I would like to refer to a last minute's problem: when we say demographic problems, we cannot only talk about births and not see the elderly, where the welfare state must be very strong, because it also releases forces, women and men, who in productive age deal with elderly people to care for them, etc. There it must focus on the social state, 'Help at home', medical care, i.e. elderly people who are healthy, active and active. We cannot in the name of demographics get to a situation of racism - with or without introductory terms - against the elderly. We need to highlight the creativity of each generation. Being elderly healthy and active in social life is very important. I will close by saying one thing: we cannot talk about growth and productive reconstruction unless we address demographic and one of its parameters very important. Overconcentration in three cities in Greece - primarily Athens and Thessaloniki, of course - and the almost desertification of the countryside is not the best way to say that I will have a demographic curve rise. I close, thanking once again all the members for the work we have done. I believe that our proposals will, at some point, be integrated into policy. Some of them have already been incorporated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u4	Thank you. Now I will call from the single list of speakers of the first cycle Mr. Stephen from SYRIZA Mr. Stephen, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the demographic issue of public debate in our country for decades. A prerequisite for the establishment of policies that will lead to the resolution of or the restoration of subgenitality in Greece is the description and analysis of it in modern terms, while placing developments in the international environment and global context. The planet's image of genitality is complex and contradictory. In general, however, it can be said that part of the planet, the poorest, is overborn and the richest subgenital. It's oxymoor at a glance, but it's real. Europe's demographic behaviour presents very basic similarities and common social processes. However, we could identify three parallel realities. The first refers to the northern countries, the Scandinavian and France, where the fertility index is close to the breeding limit of the country's population. The second concerns the countries of the European south, where the fertility index is lower than the production limit. The third relates to the countries of Eastern Europe, where there are signs of a high decline in the population. This situation also characterizes our country. Greece's demographic behaviour is similar to that of the rest of European countries more or less developed. Modern science says that in order to ensure the reproduction of a country’s population, 2,07 children per woman are needed. This figure does not have any European country. Each Greek woman corresponds to 1.6 children, which is one of the lowest in Europe. That's what we have on one side. On the other hand, a number of peculiarities are identified: our country did not post-war known the so-called 'baby-boom', that is, we did not have a birth explosion like in the rest of Europe. The dissolution index of married cohabitations is low though with upward trends. The age of departure of young people from the home is one of the highest. The rate of women's homeless women is growing rapidly and is one of the highest in Europe, 20%. Women's work is, to a large extent, considered to be a complement to male work. The responsibility of child rearing lies with the woman. The incompatibility between family and working life is one of the most powerful in our country and, finally, the resources allocated to family policy are one of the lowest not only in Europe but also among the OECD countries. The above are only a few of the Committee's findings, which describe the situation and place demographics on its real dimensions. Therefore, targeting for most of the fields of policy for the country needs to do two things: The first is that for the next 20 years, Greek governments should take very seriously into account the expected population reduction and the increase in the number of people of age groups from sixty-five and over and eighty-five. The chairman of the committee made a reference a moment ago. The second is that measures must be taken to oppose the negative sign of immigration and increase fertility to 1.8 to 1.9 children per woman. I would remind you - I mentioned it before - that in Greece this figure is 1.6. But how do the policies specialize in order to achieve these objectives? To answer the question, we must take into account what has been done so far in the country to deal with demographics and assess how effective the measures taken have been. The second is to study the practices followed by countries such as France and Sweden - and this has been mentioned before - which have better effects than other countries, applying the good practices of these countries and Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the debate that has taken place in the committee, in my opinion it should be stressed that the subsidy policy that has been followed in previous years has not produced the expected results. Let me make it clear that I do not claim that multiple families should not have the help and support of the state. On the contrary. But we should, with a clear glance, see whether allowances, facilities and all kinds of benefits have been a solution to the demographics. And the answer here is negative. On the other hand, we see that in the countries mentioned above, priority was given to harmonising and fully interconnecting family and working life, while the focus of policies was on the child itself. The more simply means that demographic potential is dealt with more effectively by strengthening the social state. Measures such as maternity leave and childbirth leave to all workers, parental leave to all, the institution of the full-day school so that working parents do not worry about the child, the creation of childcare facilities outside the home - children's stations - are in the right direction but are not enough. There needs to be a combination of benefits policy, along with benefits of such an incentive to young women to give birth to. Measures to reduce child poverty, strengthen equality of opportunity, pre-school education for children are not a policy to tackle demographic. So we're talking about a spectacular reinforcement of the social state and not a shrinking of it. Without labour support measures, the provision of opportunities to young people, equality in the working and social environment of men and women, the strengthening of childcare institutions cannot be addressed. In this context, it seems hypocritical to any declaration in favour of the family without accompanying social measures. I wonder how much value does two grand have in a child when there's nothing else? In the context of the treatment of demographics, I consider it particularly important to establish a demographic monitoring body in our country. We need a body that will monitor developments, propose measures, evaluate results in order to address the problem. However, we need an agency, which will also have as its main concern the demographic information and education of the whole society, the dissemination of information and the creation of a demographic culture, which reflects modern realities through the collection of research data and the formulation of proposals. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more minute, Madam President. I left for the end an aspect of demographics, which we all have to think about, because it is also in the context of what society we want. Immigration. This aspect has two arms. One is all these thousands of young people who left the country during the period of the job search crisis, who create their own families and help to tackle the demographic problem of their host countries and the other, that the economic exit from the memoranda has created a reality, which must be strengthened and stimulated by job creation, so that these young people return to the country. One issue is the part, which concerns immigrants and refugees coming to our country. The experience we have as a country in demographic terms - but not just that - is that the presence of immigrants since the 1990s has contributed to increasing the population, especially for the second generation immigrants. These are people who have not met another country, who have finished in Greek schools and universities and see their future here. Therefore, as a society, we should consider and consider how and in which areas our country will become more attractive so that immigrants who come to contribute to economic and social development. The rest - and you know what I'm talking about - are ideologies that actually hide hatred not only for these people but also for our country. The answer to the demographics is therefore double. From a social policy and social state to the benefit of the citizens and the second migration policy based on the needs and specificities of our country's economy and society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-five students and students and five educational sessions from the 2nd General Lyka High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Harakopoulos has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the demographic problem is indeed the major national problem. We used to say it's a time bomb on the foundations of our nation's society. But that is, unfortunately, confirmed by the figures, the actual facts. In recent years we have had a dramatic decline in births and an increase in deaths combined with the fleeing of hundreds of thousands of young people known as Brain Drain. The birth-death balance in 2017 was negative by thirty-five thousand. Greece, by common accord, is one of the most ageing countries not only of Europe but of the world. The fertility index fell to 1.3 per woman, when to reproduce and be at least stable the population should be 2.1. Young people are increasingly postponing family creation, as are women who are getting backwards to become mothers. The image is grim and if no immediate measures are taken - yesterday - it will be irreversible. So, as I said, we regard demographic as a national issue as the number one. The truth is that when our committee's work began a year and a half ago, not everyone shared that view. If you look at the minutes of the first meetings, you will see colleagues who will characterise these views as conservative obsessed with what I am presenting to you, speak and challenge us that we are overreacting and at risk and attempting to restore conservative stereotypes to Greek society. And the scientific committee's finding came, of course, to dismantle illusions and, indeed, to show how difficult the situation is. It leaves no margin of misinterpretation or reassurance. Let me still mention some numbers. In 1928 in the census in Greece, we found ourselves close to six million and our eastern neighbours in thirteen and more than double. Today, our country is ten - eleven million with a population, as we have said, of the oldest in Europe and our eastern neighbours are eighty million. The projection of all the demographers for 2050 is that we will be about seven-and-a-half million people and, of course, the eastern neighbours far more. The consequences will therefore be dramatic in all areas from national security to the insurance or health system. A country with more grandparents than grandchildren cannot be optimistic about the future. A country where 1/3 of the population will be over sixty-five, a country with a high rate of over-age, what economy and what development prospects can it speak of? Demographic, of course, ladies and gentlemen, did not occur in the years of the crisis nor was it a result of the crisis. It was, however, afflicted by the crisis of fleeing, in particular, new scientists abroad, young people, who are, however, in creative and even reproductive age. As the 1990 figure pointed out, the demographic problem has been evident since the early 1980s. However, then its consequences were not visible, because we had the coming of hundreds of thousands of people from the northern continent, Russians - as was unfortunately introduced at the time - from the countries of the former Eastern Europe and also migrants, in particular, from the Balkans, who, of course, were quickly integrated, because we shared with them quite common cultural features, as we lived with our Balkan neighbours a thousand years under the Eastern Roman Empire, Byzantium as established by the Franks and five other centuries under the Ottoman Empire. Also, the demographic issue is not just an economic one. If only the benefits for its treatment were sufficient, the old continent, Europe that is old, or Germany which is the steam engine of the European Union would not have a serious demographic problem. It does not have a higher per capita income in Pakistan and India or the sub-Saharan African countries, which have a high birth rate. It is - I would say - a problem of the Western world, what we once said 'Christian West', the demographics, and it is primarily about values and standards of life. And we, too, have to ask ourselves, what standards and values are we going through to young children, new generations from school books to television shows. I am pleased that, in the conclusion of the Scientific Committee, the illusions of some people are being dismantled that the uncontrolled entry of migrants - irregular economic migrants - who do not share European values, can be resolved in Greece or Europe. It mentions the conclusion of the Scientific Committee: "While without active policies the majority of those from the former Eastern countries of economic migrants in the past decades have been integrated into our country without great difficulty, it should not be assumed that this will also happen with newly developed refugees and economic migrants, or with those who arrive in the future. The environment today is clearly different, as the anticipations, pursuits and certain features of these populations are clearly differentiated, meaning clearly the different cultural and valued burden they have. The conclusion of the Scientific Committee has been studied - and we have had the opportunity to hear and hear experts and scientists from abroad - best examples of other states. The conclusion, therefore, is the minimum common denominator that we have agreed on the six parties to sign it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I would like a little tolerance. The New Democracy presented a six-axle package with the first-axle reduction in the cost of having a child, with measures such as a one-off allowance of EUR 2 000 for every young child born, a reduction in taxation for every child. The second axis is support for working parents and, above all, working women. No child should stay out of the juvenile station and where there are no public children's stations, we will be giving a 180-euro coupon a month in order to access this voucher to private schools, really full-time schools and certification of foreign language in the public school. I'm referring to a few specific measures. The third axis is institutional measures such as the creation of the Bureau of Demographic Policy in Parliament - as there is the Budget Office - which will monitor every law, every amendment, if it affects the country's demographic policy, so that Members can know before voting. Fourth axle. Measures to promote active ageing such as preventive medicine and health care and the training of elderly people in new technologies, in the digital age, in order to be able to serve digitally. After all, digital knowledge helps to tackle the depression and dementia that are ill of our time. Fifthly, it is, of course, the support of large families, multitude families, polytexts and tritecs. We are committed to restoring allowances to pre-2018 levels, because there have been drastic cuts in multiple families. We are talking about a discount on the traffic fees and a review of the documents, the forecasts for cars in multitude to be extended to both third parties, but also of an increase in the tax on house purchases in the multi-selected families and a review of the evidence. And the sixth axis is the reversal of Brain Drain of the flight of young people. We are talking about support to newly-born enterprises, about brave tax incentives to startup businesses, creation of positions in universities and research centres for remarkable scientists who have left abroad. Here, of course, it could make a significant contribution to overcoming some of their ideas and progressing in the constitutional review in the revision of Article 16 and in the creation of private universities, which would create thousands of jobs, for worthwhile scientists who left abroad. To conclude, I would say that in order to reverse the departure of young people abroad, a dynamic relaunch of the economy is needed. Sure, security, optimism is needed for the young man to have a family today to have children in our country. In conclusion, Madam President - and thanking you for your tolerance - I would like to say that a joint finding of all the scientists who participated in the Scientific Committee and those who had the opportunity to speak in this year and a half is that the effects of demographics are very slow. Any positive measures we undertake to take today, in order to yield, need a long time. So the decisions we make today, it is important not to have the fate of other findings, not to be forgotten in any drawers or to stir dusted in some libraries. We need a policy to be implemented. As far as we are concerned, we are committed in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u8	Mrs. Gara has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes. I would ask everyone to show some respect for time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of my placement from the Step of the House, I, too, would like to take note of the particular importance of the work of the Intergroup on Municipalities. With our participation in the demographic issue on a parliamentary and scientific level, we have managed to record modern approaches, implemented proposals, but also to bring back to the fore one of the most serious social and time-consuming issues that cross horizontally across all areas of political and social life. Demographic burden is largely due to factors of a sociological nature such as the tendency to continuously strengthen the formal education qualifications of young people and to care for professional rehabilitation. Both reasons delay decisions to have a first child in couples. Furthermore, the modern retreat of a series of stereotypes - social, religious and family - is very often leading a couple or even a person to the conscious choice of not having children. The economic crisis also works inhibiting the birth rate and in the intensity of the negative balance contributes to the negative migration balance. Thirdly and most importantly, in recent years in Greece there has been a serious lack of politics and as many measures as have been taken in the past, it has been fragmentary or possibly incorrect. The problem, however, was not only about family financial aid, but also about the absence of a political commitment from the State to solve the demographic problem. Equally characteristic is the fact that only 4% of social expenditure is directed to families and children in Greece, when in other countries that resist demographic decline, the corresponding figure is more than double. For all these reasons, the state must activate an action plan that can immediately reverse or retain the negative trend over the next few years. A key issue, however, remains the change of attitude, the acceptance of different social modern standards, so that fear of social exclusion does not lead to the avoidance of fertility. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to point out that this government has so far introduced a series of legislation which can help improve the demographic issue. Of course all our policy is just one part of an integrated approach, which goes hand in hand with overall development, economic and social policy. In particular, demographic policy is complemented by the corresponding employment, family, maternity, parentality, gender equality, and child policies. It is also important to stress that, in modern societies, the structure of the family has a variety of forms and that is why it is worth focusing our policies on the child itself and putting it at the centre but also on support measures from the first child. In addition, subsidised policies should be strengthened and complemented by a number of other complementary, such as policies to harmonise family, personal and working life, ensuring job losses in the case of household poverty, active employment policies, targeted policies for migration and refugee populations, policies to eliminate racial inequalities and discrimination in the labour market and in private family life, as well as policies for easy access to new fertilisation methods. Although some initiatives have been legislated in recent years, much more measures are needed to address the demographic issue. However, I would like to refer to some of the flagrant instruments introduced by the SYRIZA Government such as the adoption and assumption. Significant interventions have been in the area of modern family forms, such as the National Gender Equality Action Plan. It was also important to legislate on a special maternity protection licence. Law 4488/2017 regulates matters relating to child benefit, self-employed persons who adopt a child up to two years of age, maternity leave, parental leave and protection. It is important that Law 4443/2016 on the application of the principle of equal treatment of persons irrespective of racial or ethnic origin, etc., while in particular the policies pursued for the child itself are of particular importance. Children have been at the heart of SYRIZA policies, aimed at tackling child poverty and social exclusion, protecting and strengthening the family. Among the most important are the changes in legislation on admission and adoption and the creation of a National Register of Minors by voting for Law 4538/2018. A number of initiatives are also aimed at harmonising professional and family life such as the introduction of two-year compulsory pre-school education. But there are also the health initiatives that have been taken. As I have already said, there is a need for a multi-faceted approach to the issue. In this context, measures have been adopted and implemented by the Ministry of Health, which help to improve access to health structures, and thus improve the conditions of life and everyday life of citizens. However, I would like to focus on a key and quite modern phenomenon, which has an impact on the demographic issue. And that is the phenomenon of Brain drain, of immigration, that is to say, in another country of young - scientists, mainly - who are in productive age. I believe that the consequences do not need to be analysed in detail, but policies need to be taken on the one hand to bring Brain back, and on the other hand to return young people who have left our country in recent years. On the one hand, it seeks to change the development model by shifting to the knowledge economy in order to increase the demand for skilled human resources and to reduce their flight. In addition, in a shorter term, we have already created an institutional framework to stimulate a shift in investment of high added value and intensity, and we are redirecting the legislative framework for attracting large investment in the same direction. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me one more minute, Madam President. We support employment, entrepreneurship and innovation with measures such as the strengthening of self-employment in higher education graduates, the strengthening of newly developed enterprises, actions to strengthen primary health with TMG structures, the recruitment of medical staff, the strengthening of R&D in "Research - I Create - Innovation" operations and actions to strengthen innovation and entrepreneurship at universities. Secondly, we support academic and research excellence through the IKY and ELIDEC scholarships - candidates for doctors and postdoctors - of new recruitments at IKY, TEI and research centres. Finally, the "Bridges" initiative is important for the networking of Greek scientists abroad with the Greek economy while staying abroad. It is an important tool for informing and connecting Greek scientists who live around the world. Its main aim is to achieve with mutual benefit the contribution of all Greek scientists and professionals to the national effort to develop the country in the direction of the knowledge society. The policies mentioned above gradually reduce fleeing and will lead to the return of some young people back to the country. In addition, however, all this Greece can attract scientists from around the world who will live and work in our country. It appears from the above that the objective of demographic policy can be no more than cross-sectoral coordination. To address this issue is a function of more general social and political objectives and to implement horizontal and holistic policies, such as employment policies, childcare infrastructures, allowances, tax and other incentives, healthy and active ageing policies, health policies and others. All policies that have so far been implemented by the SYRIZA Government, many of which already have measurable positive effects and have a direct and positive impact on the development and healthy reconstruction of the country. Thank you and thank you for your tolerance, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-seven students and students and three educational sessions since the 1st General School of Nice. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Barriottas has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Madam President. We are here today to discuss a very complex and serious issue of demographic ageing in Greece. It's not a country's privilege and it's not a demographic crisis. It is an issue that concerns all - not even the Western world - industrial and post-industrial societies in the last forty years, as the significant changes that have taken place since the beginning of the 20th century in the role of the family, the integration of women into production, the emancipation of women's movements and contraception - have brought appalling changes in the role of the family, in the number of children and in family patterns which have a very negative effect on the demographic firmness that it needs. Greece follows Europe with some delay as in many other things. Already since 1980, the genital index has practically collapsed. Even in the 1980s, a decade of economic and political optimism, if you want, and at the same time of urbanisation, the index collapses, in order to reach its worst -1.3 births per woman - just before starting the migration current of the 1990s to Greece, which temporarily relieved statistics and gave the image of improving births and demographics, bringing births to about 1.5 to 1.6 per woman. It was a temporary breath but, unfortunately, the crisis exacerbates demographic and even in many ways by further reducing births due to economic and social insecurity, with the outflow of the reproductive population. Whether it is a repatriation of immigrants or a migration of Greeks abroad, we have a negative immigration mark, that is, as fewer and fewer people of childbearing age stay, work and have family in the country. Demographically, however, apart from being exacerbated by the crisis, it in turn also exacerbates the crisis in many ways, as the reversal of the age pyramid, i.e. the growth of the elderly in relation to young people undermines growth itself. It is known that many times - the example of neighbouring Turkey is very characteristic - countries with young people, with large numbers of young people, have in themselves a dynamic economic development, by the pressure exerted on these layers. It also undermines the viability of the insurance company, as fewer and fewer workers produce, in import, contributions to pensions and a social state. It increases health costs due to the reversal of the age pyramid and social services. So demographic firmness is a prerequisite for exiting the crisis and developing at least in the long term. Demographically speaking, today is the country's main problem. In my opinion, it is a more important problem than the economy and from the crisis, precisely because its reversal requires policy over time, 20-year-old policies which are expensive and costly have and are very difficult to implement in a country where the political system is diseased, among other things, and precisely in the ability to implement long-term policies and consent to them. In this context, the intergroup committee, which was an initiative by Mrs Fofi Gennimata, President of the Democratic Association and our party, and in which she has responded to the whole House I must confess, was an initiative to launch a process of convergence on a policy which must be agreed and implemented for the next twenty years and a move intended to highlight the problem as a key problem for Greek society and Greece in general for the coming years. The experience of one and a half years in the intergroup has been very positive, and this must also be credited to the chairman of the committee and to the President of Parliament and to all the Members who participated, as there has been a scientificly sound and well documented effort. The Scientific Council was set up at the first time with Mr Kotzamani, Mrs Tragakis, Mrs Kostaki and Mr Balourdos, who drafted the final report of the Scientific Committee, bringing together the opinions and opinions of all the bodies. So at the end of the process of a process in which almost all concerned were discussed and presented, there was a scientific basis, a basis for data, which was the basis for the objective convergence. There was also, of all the parties, other than the Communist Party and the Golden Dawn, a genuine mood of convergence and the creation of a single finding and a single policy. The main idea is that demographic policy is a policy which is intertwined, complemented, if you like, by a series of policies. In practice there are issues in all areas of policy, but certainly employment, family, maternity and interparentity, gender equality, child policies, education policies, immigration policies, all are policies that are articulated and divided with demographic policies. Direct targets are the increase in the final fertility of women born after 1980 in Greece, the arrest of immigration and the change of the migration mark from a negative to a positive one. In the next few years, people, people who enter the country, and even people of childbearing age, must be consistently more than the people who leave it. Also a direct objective is to care for the elderly and active ageing, as we say. It is precisely because one of the characteristics of the demographic crisis is the increase in the number and percentage of the elderly, the policies of care for the elderly and their integration until they wish to do so in productive processes or in processes which contribute to the raising of children or the support of the economy, they are desirable and we need to see them. Donor policies in the fragmentary way they have actually been implemented in Greece over the last few decades are not enough by themselves. They have their value, but they certainly are not the only solution for demographics. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The conclusion is that there are tens of measures which we have all agreed on. For reasons of time, because the President will start to press me, I shall speak briefly. Harmonising family, personal life and working life, ensuring in the event of loss of work, active employment policies, protecting motherhood and child are the main directions, along with reversal of the famous Brain Drain. Perhaps we should see something that we did not see in the conclusion, namely the attraction of people, Greeks from the huge tank of the homosexuals, with various policies. In tourism, for example, there are opportunities. There are policies that could bring new relatives of the second and third generation Greeks back home. As we should see integrated policies on immigration and the refugee population. We must seek to prevent and eliminate social exclusion and the smooth social integration of people living and working in the country, as it is a key element in social cohesion and economic development, but also in answering demographics with policies, of course, to eliminate gender inequalities and discrimination in the labour market, especially in the private sector, and to ensure as I have said before. The Change Movement tabled a proposal for a law, at about the same time as we reached the conclusion, which incorporates the measures that we consider to be priority measures and must be implemented immediately. It would be a good thing if we were to discuss this in the House sometime and see what of this really can start immediately, the resources, the possibilities and the measures. I'm just outlined. Household assistance to families with children, universal coverage of all children and infants in kindergartens, a commitment by the state that every child born in Greece will be covered by a day zero from tomorrow - it is something that we need to do and there are ways, we have proposals - and the integration of three-twelves into multi-text families, that is to say, without, of course, affecting the privileges and rights of the multi-texts. I will ask for another minute for the most important proposal that we have made and which has been incorporated into the conclusion, which is the establishment of a special secretariat for demographic policy in the Ministry of Labour and the establishment of a national committee for demographic policy. And that's why? Both the proposals of our draft law and the many important proposals of the conclusion concerning long-term policy are at risk from the same time the Greek political and administrative mechanism, which cannot implement and cannot serve policies that go beyond the parliamentary life of a government, very rarely even a minister. So if we want to have long-term policies like those that are needed to solve demographics, there must be an executive arm, at least, that can implement these policies over time. Otherwise, the fate of the '92 conclusion mentioned by Mr. Charakopoulos, earlier, that is to say, squeeze into a drawer, threatens the 2019 conclusion, which is important, for a problem that is now precisely because nothing happened in '92, has become even more pressing and even more difficult today. So the establishment of a secretariat is serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u12	Come on, Mr. Barriotta, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u13	The demographic problem is the country's most serious problem, as I said before. Our task is to become a consciousness of all, political and civil, this reality. Greece needs young people and needs more children, more people of productive age for the next thirty years. It is an immediate need to ensure the country and nation itself. National identity and national sovereignty are at stake, and so, following Mrs Gennimata's initiative, there must be continuity and tension in the great, really, national effort to reverse demographic indicators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u14	Mr Nikolaos Friend from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is impressively worrying to reduce births, to launch the migration of new productive ages, to ageing population, to permanentisation even at lower levels than today of mass poverty, to threaten insurance. Five factors that each one alone would be a social bomb, exist and act cumulatively and worsen demographics. The problem becomes even more explosive, since the definition of life expectancy in our country over the next few decades is actually affected by mass poverty and the threatened reduction in pensions. Because mass poverty entails great difficulties in accessing health and, at the same time, it is a source of health problems. That's the problem. This is what we have to respond to, and in fact directly, by putting this issue at European level, in negotiations with our partners, pointing out a colossal contradiction, namely that the European institutions themselves, who, in their studies, demonstrate the deterioration in our country's demographic problem and, at the same time, are the ones who have imposed on us hard policies of austerity or anaemic growth and structural divergence policies from the rest of Europe, policies that not only face the demographic problem but also exacerbate it and prevent its solution. The problem is becoming more difficult because it has become clear now that infertileness and mass migration in only a small part can be replaced by the necessary, of course, incorporation of immigrants into the Greek society. In order not to forget the geopolitical dimension of the demographic problem, in 2050 our neighbour Turkey is estimated to have a population of ninety-five million people. Ladies and gentlemen, in the black eight years of the memoranda, the most important factor in saving cloned social cohesion has been the family. Without this we would live unprecedented and incomprehensible situations in our country. The left should open to Greek society aggressively - based on its awesome, ideological and political arsenal - a great debate about the family. Recognize and support all its types and forms as we live in the 21st century. To get away from the paradoxes of Macron type about "Family 1" and "Family 2" that do not show up at all but on the contrary level all forms and types of family, while concentrating on the arrows even those who in the words try to protect them. Promote a policy for the child, drawing good practice, positive examples from other European countries. Put the child, his protection and development as the main priority of the memorial period. To lay all the weight on dealing with subnatality by strengthening new couples, implementing targeted policies first for the first and second child and then for the third and upwards. The family is a key factor in stirring up the grim prospect. Next to the family and on the basis of this need for strong protection policies for workers, a strong social state, tax exemptions for children and not children tax presumptions, effective gender equality policies with recognition of the role of both parents and their equal involvement in children's magnification and with a shorter perspective. There is no social reconstruction from the destruction of the memoranda, not beginning with family support. In this context, that is to say, family policy, we must put forward every progressive change that we want in the social state. The political and ideological differences between the parties will no longer exist. In the European Union, however, they have found a minimum consensus. Here, in our country, we are very often moving with prejudice, stereotypes, hooks and labels. We heard some earlier. Others implicate their political opponents that they do not have demographics in their priorities, because they are often working to dismantle national and state cohesion. Some others who rightly despise the deep preservatives and the patriopathy of the extreme right tend to underestimate the problem, relinquishing that demographicism is beyond a national and major social issue. In our country the establishment of a Ministry of Family is necessary. In other words, we should go beyond the approaches to intermediate structures, support the proposal for the Ministry of Family. What our country has rightly chosen to do with immigration and the environment, namely to go ahead with the establishment of separate ministries, must also do with the family as a pillar and an axis of the treatment of demographics. The establishment of a Ministry of Family, based on the experiences of other European countries, for example in Germany, will be a flagrant change and will give impetus to both the individual sectors that we promote, and to the development of a different concept, our own, about what family means in the 21st century. Ladies and gentlemen, the main problem with reducing the number of births is that large sections of people's populations - particularly in the years of the crisis and with the ruthless attacks on wages, employment and the social state - are prevented from exercising their right to family. This problem is the main factor, but not, of course, the only one to elevate demographics. The causes are many and it needs a multifactorial approach. Harmonise family and professional life, social protection, improved working conditions, involvement of both parents in children's magnification, secure positions at children's stations, etc. As we have said, the economic crisis, obviously, is a deteriorating factor in the demographic crisis, but the crisis in fact overestimated the current trends in the decline and ageing of the average age of the population. The distorting pattern of growth of the Greek economy was a result of this trend. The insufficient amount of social protection was before the crisis. A characteristic example of this claim is that by 2012 the income support policy for households with children in our country was fragmented. Two hundred Catholic allowances were paid without income control by several operators, and tax reductions were abolished horizontally for all families with children at the expense of the Memorandum Reductions to Social Expenditure. Ladies and gentlemen, let us also focus on certain policies for the child and support for families, which we have been promoting for the first time, thereby laying the foundations for a comprehensive intervention and for large areas of reform in the areas of social protection and the social state. I would like to say at this point that for us, targeted social aid is not expenditure, as it advocates a certain economic orthodoxy with neoliberal orientation. It is, at the same time, support and investment in human capital and the very demand of the economy and indeed with a multiplier fiscal character. Here is a very specific dividing line with the conservative neoliberal concept and this line must be understood by the vast majority of our people. I will not talk about all the costs of the social state and how it would have shrinked if the medium-term government of Samaras - Venizelos were to apply. Only in education would we have a reduction of one billion a year. I will confine myself to the expenditure on welfare and social solidarity, which is inextricably linked to the subject of our debate. In 2015 we received a budget for the provision of EUR 790 million and in four difficult years we increased this budget by 408%, from 790 million to 325 million, with the aim of 2021 reaching the EUR 4 billion. This difference of 3 billion from 800 million in 2015 to 4 billion in 2021 is a nail in the eye of the economic elite and the New Democracy. The fate of this amount, which, of course, is greater, considering all social expenditure, is played in the next elections. Will many continue to take this money, as with SYRIZA, or in the form of tax exemptions and capital subsidies, will they return to the few, as New Democracy proposes? That is why Mr Mitsotakis does not cost his proposals for brave tax relief to the big businessmen and for reducing the ENPY of the upper layers. That's why he doesn't say where he's going to get the money to meet social needs. Measures and policies of this government that we believe reflect the social agenda of SYRIZA with direct or indirect consequences. For example, I'm telling you. The two-year compulsory pre-school education, the universal and equal access of uninsured families to the public health system, the strengthening of families in the field of special education and the upgrading of the special education we have achieved at the Ministry of Education, the development of new paedophile care structures, the modern and transparent welfare state with the two forty-two community centres and the organisations of promoting solidarity benefits. We are abolishing the institutional and subsidised nature of the welfare state that we received, where customer relations and corruption were blossoming. The community centers in 2019 are extended to all three hundred and twenty-five municipalities of the country. We support the family with the hundred and fifty full - time care centres of the elderly. We received seventy-nine thousand vouchers in 2015 - positions - in other words - for kindergartens, and this year we gave more than a hundred twenty-seven thousand positions, i.e. an increase in children in nurseries over 60%.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u16	Finish it, Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u17	I shall conclude, Madam President. Family allowances. We increased the budget of family allowances from 650 million in previous years to 1,1 billion euros in 2008. EUR 1 billion will be allocated in 2019. This results in very significant increases for 92% of the beneficiary families. School meals, shelters, many measures which since now - and not in the uncertain future - create possibilities to bring about a halt to the demographic problem. We have managed to reverse the social dissolution course that we received in 2015. Social solidarity income today enjoys six hundred thousand beneficiaries, and this is a very important way of dealing with extreme poverty. But also child poverty we were able to reduce it from 26.3% in 2015 to 24.5% in 2017. Child poverty in 2018 was 23%. In 2022, poverty rates will be lower than those in the country in 2008, i.e. the launch of a global economic crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, we are taking such and other measures, but although they relate to demographics, we are fully aware that, especially in dealing with this problem, we cannot have a direct return. Demographic trends are changing slowly, they are multifactorial, they are linked to changes in cultural patterns and aesthetic systems, but politics is required in all these trends, to compare its own weapons, to the demand of the common good to the zero, selfish and individualistic uptake of life, intergenerational solidarity and solidarity with the indifference of the most vulnerable. Ladies and gentlemen, we can reverse bad demographic developments, on the basis of growth that will have employment at its centre and at the same time create opportunities for young children to return to our country and to become the factor in this development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u18	It is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the room "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, fifty-four students and students and two teachers from the High School of Magolas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Chiaras has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes, which no one keeps, as far as I can see.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u19	'A slow-moving bomb for the economy'. "The nation is shrinking." "Greek age". Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, these are some of the titles which attempt to describe the great problem we are debating today in the Greek Parliament's plenary, the demographic issue. There have indeed been too many studies, and I think that all of us are aware of a reality, which to a large extent has begun to show its signs and, of course, to raise reasonable questions in relation to the future and what is prescribed. The demographic issue, first of all, is an issue that exists for our own nation. I think this debate should stand and remain in a context of seriousness and responsibility for us, especially at this time when the questions raised and the challenges that exist are more than ever. The New Democracy understood this issue very early and raised it at its 12th Congress a few months earlier. I would like to congratulate the Secretary of the Political Committee, Leuteris Ayggenakis, who is aware that this is a matter of direct political priority, has raised it as one of the main and foreseeable issues raised by the New Democracy Congress. There are many statistics. The figures that describe this issue are too many. I don't want to stay in numbers or talk about numbers. However, I cannot avoid certain specific general references, not with the logic of showing that the problem exists behind political perceptions, but above all to show that if we look in a particular direction, we might understand and where we can find the solution. I shall not therefore refer to the change in family model and family planning, nor to the sad beginnings of Greek mothers, who are the greatest of age throughout Europe, nor will I say more of what has been heard about the well-known Brain Drain, the four hundred thousand young children, the young Greeks and Greek women who are outside Greece and do not see the prospect, they do not find the hope of returning to their country, working and having a family. Nor, of course, will I comment on some truly cute, which have been heard by Vice-Population colleagues in the past that the solution to the country's economic problem would come from immigrants' investors or that perhaps the unhappy and intimidated refugees - Syrian immigrants would solve the country's demographic problem! But I would like to focus on specific political problems, which I think should concern this debate in plenary today. Firstly, the big problem, ladies and gentlemen, although it has been mentioned almost by all those who preceded me here at the Step, is not the economy or the insurance. Yeah, it's a problem with the economy and the insurance, but it's not the biggest. The big problem is geopolitical, as the countries in our neighbourhood have exactly the upside-to-date demographic features of what our country has, of what we have. That is why we need to understand that exploring numbers alone or only for the economy when conditions and prospects are created that will put our country at an extremely disadvantage, obviously it is not a responsibility. Secondly, it is a matter of time. The President of the Commission and Minister, Mr Anagnostopoulou, put it very well. Time is not our ally but our enemy. Remember that the last time a committee was held to study demographics was in 1992-1993 thanks to the obscurity of the remembranced then Prime Minister Constantine Mitsotakis. Do you know when measures were taken on the basis of the ten proposals made by that committee? In 2004, eleven, twelve years later! That is the reality, Minister. Indeed, it was done by the government of Kostas Karamanlis, another government of the New Democracy. The measures, obviously, could not be supported five years later, since Greece entered the economic crisis and the whole concept of finance was different. What do I mean by that? The committee has managed to agree on a number of measures. I think, Mr President-in-Office, that what has been delivered to you as a conclusion obviously shows that at least some basic things can be agreed and are very positive. Obviously the implementation of these measures exceeds today's, even the next government. However, consistency is required. What we are saying today is that we must implement as a policy, see it implemented seriously and with the support of the entire political system, I would say. This is a very critical moment in which we must all show our responsibility. Consider that from 1993 to 2019, one quarter of the century has passed. We've lost twenty-five years. Time is a parameter that we must take very seriously, of course, and all that is said about where Greece's demographic reality will be around 2050. The third issue is this: at the heart of demographic policy, ladies and gentlemen - and I am pleased to hear it earlier, despite the different viewpoint and Mr Phile - the family remains. That's the reality. We are talking about the family, about the traditional form, about'stereotype', as some of the SYRIZA colleagues say, or about modern forms, such as single-parent families. We had diagnosed this and described it. There are in the Minutes of the 12th Conference of the New Democracy. I would like once again - and the President of the New Democracy has tabled it - to submit to the Minutes all these reports that are being made in order to protect the family from specific political choices. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Tsiaras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I believe that the special policy was expressed by the rapporteur of the New Democracy and by the Vice-President of the committee, Mr Maximos Charakopoulos. However, there are specific commitments that the New Democracy, through our President, Mrs Mitsotakis, has actually shown that we are at least prepared to reconcile family life with working life. It is the minimum that we owe to each family, to every mother, in every direction, if you wish, which obliges us to support the concept, the institution of the family. We are committed to helping 2,000 euros in new families for every new child born in Greece. In fact, this will be done with extended income criteria, so that the vast majority of young families can take it. We have committed ourselves that there will be for infant species and for the first-need species of young mothers a low VAT rate. We are committed that the tax exemption for each child will be increased by EUR 1,000 for each family. We must finally see all these working policies that can help young mothers. We have said that young mothers will be able to choose the time for the leave for pregnancy and pregnancies, and for the first time the "Help to the working mother" programme will be established in our country. Finally, we are committed that the next time the New Democracy will be in the government, no child will be left out of children's stations. Any family whose child can't find a place at a primary school station will receive the well-known support of 180 euros for ten months a year in order to choose that nursery station of its choice. Are economic incentives just the answer? Obviously not, and we all know that. We must overall work together on a policy which, at least, will give our country the opportunity not to face the nightmare of the demographic problem, as it seems and presents for the immediate future. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that it is our obligation to overcome political controversy. It goes beyond what each one of us believes in general as regards how a policy should or can be implemented and makes us fundamentally responsible, at least for the time that our own term in this year imposes or, where appropriate, creates a specific obligation. I believe that even the last, literally, time we have the possibility of applying specific policies on the basis of the common finding proposals, of slowly building policies, but much more prospects, so that the family can be supported, the demographic problem being addressed at least to a decent degree in the present time with these conditions, and of giving our young people the opportunity not to hesitately face today's reality and to see one of the greatest joys of life, the creation of the family, as their own future real development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u20	Mrs Zoe Lebanese has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the committee set up by the House to examine the demographic issue succeeded both in favour of the President and in all Members' consent to a large extent, overcoming significant ideological and political differences. Looking for the causes of a birth reduction and ageing populations, we can see condensedly the wide differences in the social model that each political force is attempting to prevail. In order to understand the aspects of the demographic issue, we have to make some basic assumptions. First and foremost we must recognise that Greece's society has made considerable progress in key areas. The increase in life expectancy is a conquest of both medical and pharmaceutical science and society as a whole, which gradually improves the level of living and removes risks of premature mortality. The most characteristic example is the elimination of child mortality. Public and free health, public health structures, universal health care coverage of the population, is a conquest. This conquest was significantly challenged in the period 2012-2014, which proves that it should not be considered as a given one. The increase in public health structures, the modernisation of the tools they use, the increase in public health scientists, ensuring that access to health structures is non-discriminatory is a profound political difference between the political forces. There is the approach of the overall social progress that invests in strengthening the social state, in contrast to the approach of individual social progress that seeks to reduce the social state to the benefit of the private sector, which causes serious discrimination in society. The absolute respect for labour rights is another basic distinction. Labour rights are conquests that improve the standard of living, the working environment, increase wages and limit the possibilities of employers' arbitrage. Discounts on these issues do not bring increased competitiveness, as some support, but on the contrary make the worker unsafe, hostile, fearful to the future and fearful to the responsibility of raising up a child with what this entails. Security is the keyword in the demographics. Security and how this is interpreted is the dividing line between progressive and liberal political forces. The issue of demographics is not a question arising from the emancipation of women or the exercise of the women's right to work, equal pay for the work it offers, evolving professionally. The woman always worked. He worked in the fields, in the factories, in the homes as household staff, in the family business. Today the position of women is clearly better than the past: she is educated, she knows her rights, she disputes norms that want her to be on the margin. It calls for an equal position in universities, workplaces, society and political representation. The personality of the woman today develops more freely. The policies for harmonizing family and working life offer more to the working woman today. The possibility of having a decent living pay gives women greater security to the desire to have a child. The contribution of modern - day men to raising children and domestic jobs even improves the environment in which a child is asked to grow. We must recognise that fair progress in relation to the position of women in society has some impact on her ability to childbirth. The restrictions put forward do not relate to women's rights. They're purely biological, and they're both about men and women. We live in a world of protracted youth. The legitimate expansion of education and education delays the emancipation of young people from their family, delay search for work, delay the conquest of autonomy. This implies that young people today, men and women, later decide to have a family and give birth. This reality restricts both children's potential to childbirth and inevitably reduces the number of children. The solutions offered today in assisted reproduction are trying to deal with these consequences, but these services continue to result in appalling emotional, psychological, physical and also economic suffering. One of the policies that the state can adopt is to have access to assisted reproduction services for all. Access to it should be made easier, more affordable, to provide psychological support for those who have recourse to it. It is important to ensure that young people are provided with the economic and social security appropriate to a developed state. In this context, there are obvious policies which cannot be called into question on any grounds. Further strengthening of the social state, in particular with regard to free access to all public education and public health structures, the proliferation of measures to support working parents by harmonising family and working life, the proliferation of aid for the treatment of child poverty, the further reduction of the unemployment of young people and those already having children. There are, however, less obvious policies which a rule of law must have in place and prevent them from being called into question. Ensuring that each worker's wages allow a decent living of his or her own and family. It is at least inappropriate to omit the wage relationship with the young people's decision to create a family and childbirth. Education in family planning and sexual education, two areas which remain in our country for decades to be included in the school programme. The reduction of basic costs for child rearing. For example, care and hygiene items are considered to be priority species. The strengthening of remote areas in educational, health and, of course, schools which have closed down in previous years, even in areas with a sufficient number of pupils, in the supposed attempt to reduce costs. There are many aspects which directly and indirectly affect birth rates and in every local society the decision for the first child is very important. The decision for the second child is even more difficult. Young people in direct contact with the real difficulties hesitate to make the second decision. That is where we must focus, facilitate, support, create the belief that they are not alone. In conclusion, I would say that the subsidy policy has proved to be not bringing about an increase in births. Obviously, it must continue, but it is not enough. We need to do more, not to increase births, but to improve the level of living of children and parents. Not to achieve a balance of births of deaths, but to lay the foundations for a healthier, more solidarity, more stable, more human society. If we bring social harmony, if we achieve social stability, if we change our cities and make them more humanised, if we prove in practice that we are all together and leave no one on the margin, then we will only see an increase in births. We all want to see villages, towns and neighborhoods where children's smiles, children's voices and games will make the whole population happier and healthier. It is important to realise that any initiatives that are being developed need time to yield. The confidence that the state has to create takes a lot of time to build it. But only one moment to get lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, too. I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having previously participated in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop", twenty-four students and students and one of their educational sessions from the 8th Korydalou Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Pappas has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u23	We were warning in time before 2012, that is, before we entered the Greek Parliament, about the huge and major demographic problem. The demographic problem, namely the reduction of births by the Greek families, has become a killing problem for the nation in the years of the memoranda for reasons which - mostly but not only - are economical. Through the so-called 'family plans', we have reached the sad result of reducing births and increasing abortions. In Greece, the number of abortions per annum corresponds substantially to the disappearance of an entire city. Their number, depending on measurements and data, is between fifty thousand and thirty - fifty thousand annually. So the problem is not today. There is many years of indifference shown by the state for the future of the Greek nation, an indifference that fully suits the demands of globalisation and the settlement of the European continent, which is taking place nowadays. Apart from the economic, there is also a great lack of confidence in health structures, the lack of medical, psychological and caring for young parents and the total depreciation of off-site urban centres. All this leads the Greeks to not making the decision for childbirth. To continue the existence of a genus in each generation needs at least 2.1 birth index, total fertility rate, i.e. on average per woman during her life should correspond to 2.1 children statistics. Today the Greek family bears from 1 to 1.3, so low a figure that guarantees the progressive disappearance of the Greeks. Following this pace, in 2100 our offspring will only be two million three hundred thousand. So Immediately and tragically, the consequences, which will lead to the sure disappearance of the Greek nation. Here, we must bear in mind that, according to research carried out at pan-European level by the National Centre for Social Research, the Greek women would like to give birth, which is not recorded in other European peoples, for example in the Germans. According to these measurements and surveys, then, Greek women want to give birth to three and four children. However, the reasons for stopping childbirth are, in particular, social conditions, linked directly to the lack of public care, the costs, that is, birth costs, the difficulty of raising and, of course, the general economic situation. The measures to be taken by the State must be designed at local level. They must be guided by the protection of the Greek nation. We should not once again be left to the attention of the European Union. The Union's policies are obviously designed to worsen rather than solve Greece's demographic problem. Golden Dawn considers as the tasks of the state, first of all, the defence of life from conception to death. Secondly, the protection of the family as a fundamental unit of society. Thirdly, support and increase the population of the Greek people. The reduction of births contributes significantly to the economic crisis and the ageing population. The state, therefore, needs to concentrate quickly, directly and actively on achieving doubling at least the growth rate to 3.5%. We want total rate to develop 3.5%. That must be the target. The tax measures directly hit the family and are further evidence of the ethnicisation of the political system. These measures the Golden Dawn will cancel. And the Golden Dawn in response to the demographic crisis and the demographic recovery of the Greek nation proposes, firstly, the abolition of Law 821/1978, which legalised abortions. We propose that heavy sanctions be introduced for those who carry out them. It conducts an information campaign on the serious harm to women's physical and mental health practices of abortion. The abortion is murder, not hiding it. Husbands with this act are basically being pediatricians. Instead of being parents and serving life, they serve destruction and death. Implementation of a programme of psychological and material assistance to women who do not intend to complete pregnancy, a programme aimed at the birth of the child and if necessary in its supervised adoption by another Greek family. Prohibition of practices that do not respect human life, the sanctity of human life. Let me mention the experiments of people and the harvesting of human organs with a pulsed heart. One-off reimbursement of financial aid to every new Greek born. Golden Dawn in 2013 prepared a draft law to reduce by 80% the state grant - a grant that by your own law anyway does not get Golden Dawn - to the parties and proposed the money that will be saved by this energy to share in the new Greeks. Only for 2013 would the State save for this purpose EUR 50 million. We propose financial support for the mothers who choose not to work to ensure their own children and increase the subsidy for each newborn child. Priority in multi-stakeholder families to buy or rent a house, promote the model of the physical family. Encouraging education for respect for and protection of life. Legislative reform to ensure the maximum speed of approval of adoption procedures by Greek families for Greeks. Joint care of children in divorce cases for maintaining the balanced mental development of children. Implementation of a programme for the integration of elderly people into volunteering actions. The elderly become particularly useful for the reconstructing nation with their experienced social dynamics. Finally, the benefits of laundry to start with the third child and increase for each additional child. I shall then submit to the Minutes the complaint made by the Pan-Hellenic Tritecque Federation, which was received today by the President of Parliament and by the Members of the Greek Parliament. In this complaint, it says - and quite rightly so - that the term demographic policy is separate and cannot be confused with the country's social policy, but also with immigration. Demographic policy measures take a state to ensure the perpetuation of the kind of nation of its own, as the Constitution says. It is addressed, that is, only to Greek citizens and not to immigrants. It is also stated that our country needs a single demographic policy, a series of measures that will have an impact on the daily lives of its citizens, a demographic policy with two objectives. Firstly, strong measures for births from the first child and, secondly, enhanced protection and a special package for families who will have a third child on top. The Pan-Hellenic Tritecna Association reacts, as we also reacted, and we did not legitimise your joint suggestion of the common friends of George Soros who want a multinational Greece, a Greece that will not belong to the Greeks and we did our own special exhibition on demographics. Here's the Tritecnic Union complaint. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In conclusion, Madam President, I would like to say that we Greek nationalists, the Chrysayites, in this pitiful situation created by the number one problem of our country's homeland, which is demographic, say that there is an optimistic prospect, there is an optimistic finding that what is needed, in order to reverse the situation and reverse the climate, is a good state concern that needs to be done immediately and without any further time being wasted. So what is needed is a national government now. A national government that will regain the centre of the state and aim to regain Greece in the wider area of the Hersonissos, Amos and the Eastern Mediterranean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u24	Mrs Maria Theleritis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about dealing with the demographic problem, about the work of the committee which has been completed and about the outcome. This is undoubtedly an extremely rich task, in which conflicts between different parties and representatives of collective bodies and state bodies have emerged, but also significant differences and contradictions in understanding the demographic issue. Fortunately, I would say, when listening to the previous speaker, who could not have been opposed to the demographic and, in particular, to the methods proposed and to the policies with which to tackle the demographic problem. I believe that the report is very interesting, because it approaches the demographic problem through modern theories and approaches, and that matters what you are aiming for, but what you are proposing as a political solution. Before I refer to the targets and policies, you will allow me to make some points. Label first. The demographic issue is currently at the heart of public debate at a pan-European level, as the Elderly Epirus faces both demographic decline and demographic ageing. With the exception of France and the Scandinavian countries, which could be the subject of a study on their demographic policies, the Eastern European countries are highly subgenous, with high population outflows to other countries, while the rest of the European South presents a demographic picture which largely specializes in our country. Second point. The way in which each country faces demographic decline and ageing depends or is linked to the individual models of the welfare state developed in European countries. And here I am referring to the neoliberal model and the Scandinavian-Social Democrat, which we all know very well, as far as the welfare state is concerned, i.e. whether it is a remnant or a social democrat, which means whether there is a universality, whether the benefits cover all citizens or focus on some groups or people who experience poverty, exclusion and so on. The southern countries, including our country, have special features, because they were following the Ferrara model. In other words, the Mediterranean family replaces state structures and public policies, where women, in the context of their stereotyping roles, usually take care of children and houses, in other words devalued, say, work. Another point is that, as far as our country is concerned, it is very important to understand the way political allowances have worked so far. I do not mention that, to say whether they were sufficient or not, because I think that to a large extent, after the policies of the present government, they are no longer extremely low. I think, however, that the most serious is that there was no political provision to combine these policies, that is, grants to family benefits and policies to reconcile professional, personal and family life. And here, indeed, it is very important that we have this as a guide for policy-making in the future. I would also say that in relation to the crisis and austerity that followed, it has led to a greater deterioration in demographic policies for the family. This is reflected, we would say, in the changes that have been seen in the European Union's priorities, which in recent years have turned to these policies of austerity, and so we also see the consequences, despite the fact that the European Union itself recognises in relevant texts and decisions that policies to reconcile working and family life must be preceded and combined with the provision of social services. This, perhaps, is also one of the keys to solving the demographic problem. What should be our goals in policy-making today? First of all, we must have a basic assumption that, in order to tackle the demographic problem, we cannot have an integrated approach, and even demographic policy must meet and complement each other by policies such as employment, family, maternity, gender equality, child policies. It is necessary, but it is not enough alone, and that is why it should be accompanied by policies for harmonising family and working life. That is what we know very well, because it must happen, because it will ensure that we are lost in the event of a job being lost to the risk of household poverty, to talk about active employment policies, targeted policies and so on. Third target. Our proposals should be for cross-sector policies, which involve strengthening the family and reconciliation of work and care. These should be interconnected in all areas of policy, from employment policy to awareness-raising and information policy. All of this is mentioned in the report, which I do not have time to mention in the ten extremely important pillars, which we have mentioned in the report. These must also be crossed by the gender dimension, in my opinion, which has not been achieved in committee. I now come to refer to why the aim and the proposal made by SYRIZA was to be in the areas of this policy, gender equality. Because, above all, gender equality is directly linked to tackling the demographic challenge and why women are still underrepresented in the European Union on the labour market. Already, in the Europe 2020 strategy, it shows how women's employment should be increased, but what matters is how the obstacles can be removed so that women can be in the labour market. Here and on the basis of the previous speech, let me say that it must be clear that we cannot allow the agony and our fears of resolving demographics not to be our starting point for every woman to have the right to self-determination of her body and that is equivalent and equal to the right to childbirth and to monogeneticity. So this is where we cannot take a step backwards, such as the previous proposal to abolish abortions. I think it's too dangerous and we need to take this seriously. I believe that it is important for us to choose approaches and policies that will strengthen and strengthen women's forward-looking action and that it will be their inalienable right to have control of sexuality. In this context, I think that our second aim should be to include the new alternative forms of family, cohabitation, etc., in other words to have a view on the new social and cultural data, after the legitimisation that we have made as a Parliament, because that is exactly what matters in how we draw up policies. Here I would like to mention in particular how central it is that proposals and measures for the social integration of migrants and migrants are included in our report, as well as positive actions for the recovery of young people from our country and the return of those who have emigrated. They are the proposals quite interesting and I think we could see how they can be formulated as policies. Finally, I would like to point out something that I mentioned at the outset, that it is of great importance in the implementation of these integrated family policies and in strengthening the reconciliation of working and family life, to look at measures to strengthen the equal distribution of domestic work and care responsibilities in the Greek family, and that, with the support of this, we would also say social policies, that is, while providing social services and supporting children and the elderly. I think this is an important factor. There are studies, like the research carried out by Karamesini and Symonakis at the Panteion Gender Studies Laboratory, where it can be seen how difficult it is to allocate time to free time especially for women and exactly how much women devote to men and how, if you like, prevent the part of reconciliation. To conclude, I should like to say that the data we have to keep, as far as dealing with the demographic issue is concerned, have two questions, which are open and fundamental. How should the state intervene to help resolve our problems, while respecting human rights and, above all, women and children? How should we move to a parliamentary level, so that through our proposals we are questioning fundamentally consolidated and stereotyping concepts and attitudes for sexes, family, races, parentality, care work and, of course, racist and nationalistic perceptions, often interconnected with the creation of panic and fear of the so-called demographic issue and our so-called national extinction? In this context, therefore, I consider it extremely important that the proposal to draw up demographic surveys, particularly surveys that will have the gender dimension. I also consider the proposal made by the report to be very important for the planning bodies of these policies, namely the creation of horizontal structures...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u26	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u27	I shall conclude, Madam President. ... to monitor policies planned and implemented at national and regional level, to set up the Interministerial Committee at the General Secretariat of the Government, to set up an office to monitor the demographic issue in the Parliament and the permanent committee of the Parliament, the intergroup, which can be respectively with parliamentary groups, but also with experience from other countries, to exchange views and to deal with the demographic issue through partnerships, joint actions and with agendas that will actually have a new approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-three students and students and three educational sessions from the 1st General High School of Nice (Second Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Kerameo has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the report by the Intergroup of Parliamentary Parliamentary Committee on Population, which we are debating today, hits the risk of the major threat to our country, namely the birth rate and the resulting decline, the ageing population for our country. As early as 1993, a committee responsible for Parliament had anticipated the bad scenario of population contraction, proposing, as now, policies to strengthen subgenitality and support the family. Despite the warning attacks and the measures taken in recent decades, unfortunately, the downfall in births has not only been reversed but has overall been strengthened, according to census data. And birth reduction, especially in the last decade, has been dramatic. We had a decrease in births by 33.7% between 2008 and 2017. In absolute numbers the births of a hundred and eighteen thousand went to eighty thousand. The reduction of births and Brain drain, within a context of economic recession and a consequence of social unrest, has resulted in dramatic reductions in the population. The projections available in the near future refer to a population of nine and a half to ten million by 2035, eight million three hundred thousand to ten million in 2050, while in 2015 they were ten million nine hundred thousand. Ladies and gentlemen, as complex as it is an integrated plan to tackle the demographic problem, we must quickly overcome the difficulties and take the initiatives aimed at strengthening fertility, changing the young age index, restoring the active population. We in the New Democracy recently submitted our proposals to tackle the demographic challenge, based on six axes. Axis first, the reduction of the cost of having a child, for example, with an increase in the tax rate of EUR 1 000 for each child of the family already from the first child, as well as the granting of a special financial aid in case of a next child's birth within 30 months from the previous birth. Alternatively, it could be extra tax-free for the children's first years of life. Secondly, support for working parents and women in particular. For example, we are proposing the possibility of selecting the time during which pregnancy and pregnancies will be used. In addition, a longer period of leave can be provided for single parents in cooperation with the social partners. For any child who does not find a place in a nursery, his/her family, if he meets the income criteria, will receive a voucher of 180 euros per month, for ten months a year, which can be redeemed at a nursery station of his choice. We propose institutional measures for the wider adaptation of society and state to demographic developments and for tackling the current challenges such as, for example, systematic monitoring of the laws on their demographic effects and the establishment of a demographic policy office in Parliament. We also proposed strengthening the social character of the educational system with full-time schools everywhere, learning foreign languages in schools, working reception classes to incorporate all children into the Greek educational system, extending protection from eighteen months to twenty-four months after birth and extending the arrangement to fathers once they have announced in their work that their women are hunting. Fourth axle. Measures to promote active ageing and intergenerational solidarity, reform of the pension and tax system, so as not to prevent the extension of working life after the sixty-five years, ensure the sustainability of our insurance and pension system with a three-pillar system combining the first redistributive pillar with a second capitalisation pillar and a third pillar on a voluntary basis. Fifth axis, support for large families indicatively by reintroducing laundry benefits to levels before 2018, with legal provisions to provide greater flexibility to municipalities in support of multi-family families, with a discount on traffic charges and a review of evidence until adulthood of children. The third axis, the reversal of Brain Drain, the departure of young people, with, for example, support for newly developed and innovative enterprises, for example by means of favourable private capital taxation, for the financial support of the so-called ‘startup’ enterprises. Before all these measures, however, ladies and gentlemen, there is a basic condition. The basic condition is no more than a return to growth. "Development" means attracting investment, means creating jobs. Without growth, without jobs young people suffering from unemployment are not going to decide to have a family. We therefore have to fight with all our citizens and politicians for our country's return to a development path. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the data and it is extremely worrying. Our country is a country in extinction. If we do not act decisively, our country is in danger of having a population of only eight million three hundred thousand in 2050. And if we do not act now, the situation will be irreversible in a few years. We have proposals that are realistic with specific targeting. So what's missing? The political will is missing. Why don't we see that the demographic problem is a real time bomb at the bases of the country? Or do we see it and simply choose to ignore it, why do we have the assurance that it won't break in our hands? What is the point, ladies and gentlemen, in discussing the economy, health, education and justice when we are, above all, a country in extinction? And, yes, it is true that any demographic policy needs time to deliver results. And, yes, it is true that the increase in birth rates takes decades to turn into an increase in labour force. But that is no reason not to act immediately, so that we do not act decisively. We owe it to our children, to the children in the gallery. We owe it to our grandchildren. We owe it to the new generation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u30	Thank you for keeping time, Mrs Keramea. You are the first to keep time after ten speakers. Ladies and gentlemen, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, is seeking permission from a few days' absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u31	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr. Emmanuel Synthrakis has the floor from the JRC for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, demographics can be a joint finding of all political forces as a problem. However, the approaches for the reasons it is produced and reproduces, as well as the solutions proposed, are radically different, both with Euro-cosmopolitan, neoliberal social democratic, supposedly left-wing, and with nationalist, darkening, dangerous concepts of criminal Golden Dawn. This is the most important reason why the JRC Parliamentary Group has tabled its own findings to the Parliamentary Committee on Journalism, taking into account studies and surveys on the demographic issue. For the JRC, the factors that make up the demographic problem, such as living conditions, inheritability, migration, refugee, mortality and others, are primarily social, economic, political, cultural. From this point of view, demographic developments in the societies of capitalism are directly intertwined with conditions of reproduction of the labour force or - in other words - with the living conditions of the people. Research by the University of Thessaly shows that from 2011 to 2017, which was carried out, some long-term trends speed up key demographic features, such as the even greater decline in fertility, i.e. the average birth number per woman, the arrest of the upward trend of life expectancy, increased migration flows. Similarly, the social features of the 2011 census by the Greek Statistical Office show that the average number of households remains limited. Since 1991, the average family in our country has been made up of three people and already in 2011 it has been reduced to 2.6 people, an average that would have been smaller if there were no increased numbers of migrant families, where on the presumption the average number of members of each household is increased. Evidently today, things are even worse. The concern expressed by the SYRIZA Government, the New Democracy, but also by the other Euromono street parties, in our opinion, is hypocritical, since not only is it not accompanied by any measure for the relief and support of the people's family, but, on the contrary, it combines with parallel measures that worsen its lives, which serve the competitiveness of business groups and ensure their even greater profitability. The active promotion of this policy is not a timely manoeuvre, but a firm strategic choice of the European Union and the governments. They cannot hide that at the heart of their policy is the replacement of the state's obligation to provide public and free universal social security, health, welfare, education, pre-school education and family support to meet its growing needs. That is why motherhood has no social value, it is not considered a social right. It's a cost, a personal case of the couple and more of the woman. Public maternity and other state structures for the newborn, for the socialisation of the child, are almost non-existent or disintegrated, underfunded, subordinated, with obsolete and poorly maintained infrastructure. At the same time, however, private units, NGOs and different well-being institutions that grow like mushrooms, replacing the state, take up the protection of motherhood, the magnification of the newborn, the children, turning state responsibility into an individual case of the parent and, above all, the working mother. Smells the obstacles, real gulgor for a young working woman to freely take the decision to give birth. Objectively, there are serious obstacles to the choice of a couple to create their own family, to have children, such as underemployment, children's wages, scabs, uninsured work, intensification of work, cyclical hours, tires, night work, factors burdening the mental and physical health of women with an increase in occupational accidents, occupational diseases, affecting increased rates of insecure couples, total lack of sexual education and family planning by scientific and state bodies, which are the main cause of unwanted pregnancies, expensive pre-natal examinations, pregnancy, simple obstetric and gynecological clinic for childbirth, as well as later in the child's upbringinging phase, maternity permits, his fitness, satisfying his needs for his proper mental development. According to data from 2015, the average childbirth in Greece for women has increased, reaching 31,2 years. The tendency to postpone the acquisition of a first child for older age increases the chances and rates of a new phenomenon, that of final disobedience. At the same time - and while there are huge scientific and technological developments in the field of medically assisted reproduction - thousands of sub-universal couples are excluded from this process, which is delivered to private health figures with a turnover of EUR 30 000 000 per year. So are the banks of ova, umbrella cells, located in the private business sector. Special difficulties, of course, are faced by families - especially mothers - children, people with disabilities, who experience the constant insecurity of the future of their children in conditions that even elementary special treatment is downgraded. Often mothers, people with disabilities, are forced to resign from work to be able to respond to increased daily needs. For the Communist Party of Greece it is scientifically modern to have a universal, public and free early diagnosis and intervention at the time of the arrest, the birth of the child. It is indeed necessary to draw up a single scientific programme in the early stages of pre-school age and throughout the school years setting out the general objectives and objectives. At the same time, in this context, the necessary specialisation will take place per child's case. Step by step, this development and its development will be monitored. It will be supported by any means, inspiring or inanimate, that will be framed by any scientific expertise, any trained scientist, and that will have every means available to it. The whole education process will serve, as will the children of formal development, the future of the child, which is no more than the essential preparation and integration of the child into society. For the Communist Party of Greece, our scientific and technological achievements enable us to live a decent life, based on our modern needs at work, at free time, on social protection of motherhood. What's the obstacle? The policy of the European Union, of all governments building the profits of business groups in the ruins of labour rights. That is why the JRC's proposal on the demographic issue is being formulated, with the current social needs for the modern rights of the working people's family as a criterion, so that the decision to create a family or cohabitation does not depend on economic, social factors. Be truly free choice of a new couple when and whether it will make a lot of children, based on mutual respect between the two sexes, based solely on physical, spiritual and mental attraction. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] The very large increase in labour productivity makes the overall reduction in general working time necessary and realistic, ensuring that all and all permanent, stable work, while increasing living standards by increasing wages, improving working and living conditions. At the same time, however, the situation of equal relations between the two sexes presupposes only state, free of charge, social services of education, health and welfare, with emphasis on women's particular needs due to its role in the reproductive process. In the findings of the JRC, ladies and gentlemen, there is a coherent framework of positions and proposals which, over time, are not easy to list. In conclusion, I would like to say that the above objectives and proposals put forward by the JRC are realistic, because they are necessary in order to enable the working class and the popular strata, the families of the multitude, the third parties, to regain the losses of recent years, the years of the crisis. To open the way to development, which will be the criterion of satisfying all modern folk needs. For this proposal, the JRC has all its powers to develop popular struggle, the social alliance of workers, the self-employed of the city, the poor farmers, youth and women, in an anti-monopoly and anti-capitalist direction with a view to the new society, socialism, communism, where full satisfaction of the people's needs will be the real solution to the demographic problem. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much and there's a small tolerance, but here I see some people go to double the time. That's what we need to collect. Now, for the first cycle Mr. Saridis and Mr. Koukoutsis are left. We start after the second cycle and, of course, they are the heads of the parties, the Minister, the parliamentary representatives, who will speak afterwards. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory forty-seven students and students and four of their training sessions from the 2nd General High School of Gerakas (second Chamber). The House welcomes you to a very interesting meeting. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's sitting, despite its seemingly formal nature, is, in my assessment, one of the most important in this House. In my conscience, it is as high as the votes on the constitutional review and on the budget. That is because today our fellow citizens will hear - they are already hearing - and in the plenary session of the House on the demographic problem, which is present and constantly deteriorating, threatening social cohesion, threatening the country's national security and development progress, while in the medium term it can prove to be a danger even to its national status. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that for decades the demographics have been in the public debate a problem of around invisible, at least for those who express political reasons. Even though the work of this House in the early 1990s has approached the problem in detail and has led to the proposal for a broad package of measures for its recovery. Unfortunately, however, our twenty-five years ago colleagues were unable to implement what was proposed or proved ineffective. It is important that the problem has been exacerbated, especially when unforeseen factors have entered this equation, forcing the Parliament of the Greeks eighteen months ago to be led to the establishment of a intergroup parliamentary committee, which we are discussing today in this Chamber. The committee, with the help of both the Scientific Council and representatives from the academic community, the relevant bodies and civil society, managed to map the problem in time and reach a set of proposed measures and policies. In and out of Parliament scientists and the other persons who have strengthened our work, I would like to say a very great thank you as a member of this committee. I have to acknowledge, apart from a few exceptions, that the committee has moved into a proper spirit without any particular diversions. Somewhere here, though, the good news stops. To be precise - and perhaps it will be a oxymoor - the consensual climate between the Members - members of the committee and the broad majority approval of the current findings demonstrate how difficult the situation is. It is so difficult that parties and faces tend to clash with anything else, to be able to move on paths of compassion. In the work of the committee, which is reflected in the conclusion, it has been established that the demographic problem will be further intensified in the short term. Known parameters, mainly economic, but also factors that are well beyond state control, such as the evolution of the well-being concept in Western societies, will inevitably make things worse before they happen - if they happen! - That's better. Inevitably, even if tomorrow morning we managed to adopt the best practices that would take us in the next few decades to move, our move would be on a thin layer of ice. So I cannot hide, ladies and gentlemen, that the twelfth hour has already taken place. We know the size of the problem, as we have been described by representatives of operators who are struggling to limit it every day. We know his exposure to a generation beyond our own, after we were described in detail by the prominent expert scientists who honoured us with their support. We have no right, therefore, to close our eyes again against something that quietly immatures the Greek nation. At our disposal, as Members of Parliament and all Greeks, there is the conclusion of the intergroup with an update of the situation and the presentation of proposals of both strategic importance and of a smaller scale. More importantly than any measure, however, is the recognition that no government, however long-term it may have, no parliament, no matter how mature it is, is enough to go ahead with those approaches - bold or cautious - which will bring about a first halt to the problem. So, apart from our vote in favour or not of the conclusion, the government must immediately take the initiative to create the perfect structure proposed by the scientific report, namely that of the state which will have as its sole object the continuous study and planning of the demographic problem. And the opposition on its part must also discuss with the sole aim how this structure will be as effective as possible. This is the only starting point for an organised, flexible, time-consuming and, where appropriate, effective response. The demographic problem, ladies and gentlemen, is being offered for analysis. It is suitable for compassion, for collision, but also for the middle road 'yes, but'. Soon, however, we will find out whether it is also the scope of a modern patriotic spirit, if we finally decide to act in such a way that the Members of 2049 start their findings with reference to the inappropriate unity, boldness and determination of the political staff of the country of 2019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u35	I too, Mr. Saridis, because you were very consistent in your time. I would like to welcome on behalf of the whole House - because I see two people in the gallery - the representatives of the lotus and the third parties. They are people who are interested in what we are talking about, but especially those who know much better, perhaps than us. Mr. Koukoutsis, who had the floor to speak, told him something happened to him and so he was deleted. I will now give Mr Amyras the floor, but if I have your consent, because he has also had a problem and in half an hour he will have to leave. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u36	The House has agreed. Here, Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to thank my colleagues too. Ladies and gentlemen, from the Mediterranean countries, Greece is the only one for which all the population scenarios have negative forecasts of the progress of demographic development. The expected population within Greece in 2050, but also earlier, in 2035, i.e. in fifteen and thirty years from now, will be reduced by 7% to 23%. practically what does that mean? That today the country's population is 10 million nine hundred thousand people, in 2035 on the basis of the unfavourable scenario, the population will decrease to nine million five hundred thousand and in 2050 the country's population will reach eight million three hundred thousand people, that is, it will have decreased by up to 23% compared to today. For themselves, therefore, these elements indicate the danger that directly threatens the country and its prospects. The most important factors, affecting the poor demographic evolution of the population, are: fertility, mortality, migratory flows and the economic crisis. Let's see each other separately. As far as genitality is concerned, we note that in our country the model of the couple with a limited number of children has now prevailed. The attitudes and perceptions have changed, the younger have adopted completely different attitudes than those of their fathers and grandparents, and so on, on the one hand, we are leading to the progressive shrinking of multitude and third families and, on the other, to an increase in the percentage of women who no longer have a child. At the same time, the acquisition of a child for many layers of our population is becoming even more dissuasive because of the high unemployment of young people and the insecurity in the labour market, the decline in wages and the uncertainty about the future. The second factor is mortality. We've reached the sad spot to have more deaths than birth. That's very worrying. The third factor is migration flows: both inputs and outputs, but, above all, the Brain drain, as we have learned to say, that is to say the evacuation of skilled human resources abroad. This exit, which is of great concern to us all, mainly focuses on young reproductive ages - from twenty-five to forty-five years - which was particularly felt in 2010 and, unfortunately, is not expected to be stopped soon. The economic crisis is one of the most important factors that we are debating today about the demographic downturn in our country. Public health expenditure is falling, family support policies are almost nonexistent, and candidate parents are now very much weighed on the pros and against their decision to have a child, both in terms of economic costs and psychological satisfaction, or, if you like, unfortunately, in the stress that will bring them by his idea of expanding their family. However, it is also problematic that the allocation of already reduced expenditure is too. Looking at the expenditure and their allocation to a share of our country's GDP, and other European countries, i.e. social expenditure, we see the paradox: Greece is in the first positions on social expenditure at 20.7% of its GDP, while, at the same time, it is in the last positions on the expenditure that the country does for the protection of the family and the child. Our country, our society, organised, gives every year 0.6% of GDP to support children and families, while 0.5% gives unemployment. I mention this to understand the sizes. Similarly, pension expenditure reaches 16% of GDP, because expenditure is considered to be part of social expenditure in Greece. Is there a way to overthrow or at least limit adverse forecasts and estimates? Let us look at some successful examples of other countries. Sweden also had 20 years ago, similar problems of demographic development to ours. And, however, within two decades in Sweden - listen - it is budgetd that from nine million eight hundred thousand Swedish in their country today, in 2080 it will reach fourteen and a half million. What have the Swedes done that we don't do? They motivate young people to childbirth, give child benefit, free day - care and child - care facilities for everyone. I remind you that in Greece this year thirty - thirty - thirty - five thousand children will be left out of the station. They also have a coordinate integration of immigrants and refugees into their country's social and economic environment. Gender equality and the acceptance of non-traditional forms of family are another step towards a successful increase in their demographic identity for the Swedishs. The French case is very important too. In France, as you know, they implement particularly favourable measures to support the family. The French love the notion of the family and thus strengthen the state's medical costs of pregnancy and childbirth, cover costs directly in the event of a job break, pay permanent financial support to the parent on the basis of his income, while the aid for two children can continue on the basis of income up to the age of twenty years of children. In Greece there is a need for an efficient reallocation of social costs. We need to ensure new sustainable jobs. It also needs a strong mechanism for supporting the unemployed and especially the young unemployed, who are increasingly avoiding the decision to create their own family by having children. We also need to adopt measures to provide tax and insurance incentives and relief to businesses for new staff recruitment. Similar measures must definitely be taken by the country for both the new free professionals and the self-employed. We need employment subsidy measures so that, for example, the new recruitment of registered unemployed - particularly young people - by small and medium-sized enterprises, for example, can be subsidised to replace unemployment benefits with the job subsidy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We also need effective use of the Community and national resources directed at human resources. I think it's a factor that we all have to bear in mind. It also needs support from women, from the working parents - especially from women - so that, in cooperation with the social partners, there can be a longer leave for single parents, for example, as well as for the choice of the time when the maternity and maternity leave is to be used. Incentives to childbirth are also needed, reductions in family size and income depending on the first child and increase in duty-free income, special economic assistance in the event of a next child being born within a short period of time from the previous birth, subjecting infants to the low VAT rate. There's something we could do right away. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I think we have a full understanding and full reading of the problem of demographic downturn. There is evidence, there is evidence, there is the necessary political reflection. Solutions are not easy. The problem is very complicated, but we Greeks also have the ability to overcome this great, huge demographic problem, as long as we understand its real dimensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u38	Close, Mr. Amyras. You're also vaccinated.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u39	I'm closing, Mr. President. To conclude, I would say that the proposals of our Intergroup Parliamentary Committee on Population - we have met for many months, we have spoken with too many people - is a first step, a good start, so that we can say that the political world and the governments now know. Therefore, action needs to be taken with bold measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u40	Good. The first four in the second cycle, for you to know, are Mr. Rizzos, Mr. Karamanlis, Mr. Excellency and Mrs. Vultesis. The other quadrant is Mrs Genias, Mr Katsikis, Mr Antoniou and Mr Emmanoulidis. I would remind you that we have a second bill this afternoon. Mr. Rizzo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us also bless the beards in this area. It's not a bad thing. The scientific documentation given to this Intergroup Committee is also huge and high, since we have also come to bring speakers from countries such as France and Sweden, or from countries that follow some good practices in this regard. I also feel that all the bodies involved or involved in this matter have been heard at the hearing. What did we have as a result? We had ten areas with a set of proposals, which are always connected with each other, because as we have all admitted here, it is not a separate issue that can be solved by a move. It touches all the expressions of everyday life and our social life and has long-standing consequences. Of course, all the positive measures we will take now will not see them tomorrow. That is why it is a matter of political will and direction with regard to the measures that we need to take now, so that we can become Procurement and not Prudence, as with the previous Intergroup. For God has glory! - the House has sometimes done several intergrouping committees and has come to very important conclusions, but we have not seen them implemented. As far as the final body that can organise this work is concerned, we have a Ministry of State. We don't have to do any more ministries. As long as we have concrete proposals, and secondly, we have specific control. Let us accept here as a parliament that in a six-year or a year's time we will see which of the results and findings of our Intergroup Committee became a reality. Our space, particularly in the Greek province of my own region, has been unresolved by police and immigration at an earlier time. But we have seen new phenomena in recent years in the years of the crisis. And it is not possible to keep families and new worlds in areas with lack of social infrastructure, starting at the daycare station, from school, high school. So one of the factors - in my view - to focus a little more on is what I mentioned. We are all talking about working relations and working conditions, and we forget that only a month ago we voted for the equalisation of parental leave for substitute teachers and teachers. This shows us the level that we have as a society and structures to address these issues. There has been too much heard in this Chamber. My dear colleagues and my fellow Members have stressed them and put them on the table. I would just like to focus on two issues, to see the social definition that we have for farmers and, in general, for those who are involved in primary production. How can we give them the value they have in society as a whole and in structures, so that they can stay where they are and face their everyday lives? It may not be a matter of funding or new programmes. It is a matter of mentality and we must inject that into our own families, in our own society, and give them the place that suits them. In addition, while referring to the finding, two topics have not yet been mentioned, the issue of the medicalization of the acquisition of the child and the costs that this entails. In order for one to be able to give birth, the monitoring of a woman during her pregnancy and birth is too costly now. We also need to look at this more comprehensively through social security, as well as special programmes. And one final point is that the population is not only reduced by a lack of births. Our population is also falling from the lack of what we are saying - although I do not like it as an expression - 'of productive age'. Let's get a little on the track. The roads hit young people by a greater proportion, tomorrow's family. Let us take special measures for this particular category of our fellow citizens who are losing their lives in asphalt. I also want to close with what I have started, that the findings are good, that our cooperation is good, but once it has to be real and that it must be checked whether it is real. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u42	Well done, Mr. Colleague, for keeping time! We proceed with the second speaker of the second cycle, Mr Constantine Karamanlis of Achilles. Here, Mr Karamanlis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. I think we all recognise in this Chamber that the so-called demographic problem is the greatest threat to our country. The predictions are bleak, the numbers are vague. The problem, however, also has to do with the Greek culture. We are always on the basis of today, almost never looking at tomorrow and rarely understand the challenges that we have before us and even more rarely, if you want, we are also drawing up a comprehensive plan for the next few decades. The case of demographics is a symbol of the above. There has been no national plan for the next day since 1980. In my opinion, three are the main problems that we need to focus on. The first is the question of the desertification of the countryside and the region. What one sees, observing the structure of our country, is its metropolitan character, the lack of medium sized urban centres and the overconcentration of population and income in the two major cities of the country. Over 50% of the population and income are now in Athens and Thessaloniki. This problem is a clear example of underdevelopment, which we do not meet in many countries of the European Union. And despite the fact that after the first post-war decades our country's development was one of the largest in Europe, the reality is, however, that this development was essentially limited to Athens and Thessaloniki, contributing to the inequality between the developed centre and the rest of Greece. The second problem has to do with high demographic ageing. And when we talk about demographic ageing, we are not just talking about upper-ranking, that is, about increasing life expectancy. Mostly in our case, we are talking about lowering births. Here too, what we need is basically to give some motivation. The current government, however, has not only helped resolve the whole problem, but has also contributed to its deterioration. A characteristic example is the multi-project that you passed in January 2018, with which you cut the benefits of up to 50% of most three-tier and multi-tier families. Such a policy is not only short-sighted, it is also nationally irresponsible, because our country is ageing and even more so our population is shrinking. Death, as the statistics show, exceed births. I would remind you that in the New Democracy with Law 3454/2006 there were considerable incentives for so-called three-tier and multiple families. What was the result of this policy in three years 2007-2009? It was that there was a marked increase in births by about eight thousand a year. This policy was interrupted at the worst juncture, at the time of the economic crisis and the memoranda. And instead of strengthening these motives, what did you do? You completely abolished it! The third issue, which also relates to the ageing of the population, is what experts call 'transgenic justice'. It is a matter that is probably the political and social challenge of our century. The figures are revealing: 27% of the population today is over sixty years old. In 2030 this figure will rise to 35%. 2050 is estimated to climb to 41%. Our country is the fifth at a demographic ageing speed in the European Union and has the third lowest birth rate. In Greece, then, social inequality increases. The pensions and benefits of the elderly have been very affected over the last eight years. But if we think about it, they have been hurt less than the incomes and opportunities we give young citizens. That is why we have seen, as many other Members have pointed out, the phenomenon of Brain Drain. Consider that the budget passed in this House this year gives 66% of social expenditure to two million seven hundred thousand pensioners. The conflict of generations today seems to be more material and less worthy or ideological. So what do we have to do from now on? What does New Democracy propose, among other things? Direct reform of the pension and insurance system. Reduction, for example, of insurance contributions, especially for young workers. Help with 2 thousand euros in new families for every new child born in our country. Support for working parents and women in particular, with the possibility, for example, of selecting the time during which they will be entitled to a licence. Increase the tax rate by 1,000 euros for every child in the family, by the first child. Subsistence of primary infant species at the lowest rate of VAT. Support for all threeteen and tent families with a return to the incentives provided for in Law 3454/2006. However, what we believe needs more and above all is that political will and the necessary consensus must finally prevail in our political system so that the policies are not changed every time the governments change, because it is a good thing in this House that we have discussed them in committee, we have done well in the committee, we have reached some common proposals, but where almost everything goes wrong in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u44	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u45	What for?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u46	I have been told that I can intervene on a number of points.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u47	Listen, I'll tell you now. Because this is the first time, I'll give you the floor for three minutes. However, since the debate on a bill follows, you will keep notes and when you make your speech, I will give you extra time to answer all the comments. But now, because for the first time you ask, here you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, do not take the time yet. I'd like to say something. Since I will speak after the heads of the parties, as usual, I would like to say that all colleagues at the moment have some false data invoked in their speeches. I was told, therefore, that all parties' leaders will speak, as far as I understood, that I could intervene for five minutes two, three times. Do you want three? Do you want one? I'm in agreement. But I need to intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u49	Start with three minutes. If you intervene three times for five minutes it is fifteen and fifteen which is your time, it is thirty minutes. This can't be done. We've already lost two minutes. Now your time begins.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u50	I understand that, Mr President. Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I have been listening to many New Democracy colleagues since the morning that allowances have been reduced. I have to tell them that we received a regime that gave 650 million for the child's allowance. We've reached 1.1 billion. Do you know what that means? You have been saying since this morning that you will reintroduce the former status of three-tiers and tenants, Mr Karamanlis. Third-party and multi-texts have increased. 52% of these were increased from 14% to 37%, i.e. they received over 420 to 900 euros a year. I have all the evidence. It's a digital system. Unfortunately, the time has come for nothing to know! If you return the previous regime, I tell you that, while today they receive four hundred thousands of single-sixteen families of thirty-three thousand who received four hundred six thousand tenns of three hundred and fifty-three families who were before, today they saw a very large increase, 360 euros per year for one child and 960 for the two children in 1.680 every year. The data is from OPEKA and they're digital. I can testify all the time you want me to do it in detail. Please don't go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u51	Check it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u52	Of course I'll testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u53	Put it in the Minutes, Minister, so that any colleague who wants to take it and make use of it can use it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u54	I'll testify soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u55	Look at them, fix them, so before the meeting ends, we can have them. Mr Georgios Excellency has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, twenty-five years have passed since the 1993 demographic survey. We are here twenty-five years later to discuss the report of this committee. In order not to conclude the debate on the demographic issue, we need to see how we can use this report and its conclusions and draw up a comprehensive consensus policy so that thirty years later our future colleagues will not be here again and say 'nothing has happened, nothing has happened'. Ladies and gentlemen, Europe is getting older with Greece as well. Low births and Brain Drain are key components of the demographic issue. What did previous governments do when they saw the problem giggling? Absolutely nothing. Their neoliberal policies and the degradation of the social state have persecuted young people abroad and increased the sense of insecurity. With symbolic benefits they gave at times could not solve and did not solve the problem. ‘Do it for Denmark!’. More directly, the Danes could not pass their message. Shall we say, "Do you guys, why are we gone?" International conventions and laws of the Greek state safeguard women's reproductive rights. Every woman is free to decide whether to have a child. It's her right, not her debt. But the state's debt is to create the conditions so that when a woman wants to be able to make a family. Ladies and gentlemen, after many months of processing and meetings of our committee, in which they were invited and presented their views and suggestions from all the places, we now have an integrated proposal for demographics. We propose employment measures, child-care infrastructures, housing policy, tax incentives, healthy and active ageing policies, education policy and sexual education, measures for the social inclusion of migrants, measures for the recovery of Brain Drain, for health, for road safety. We stress the need for information and awareness-raising actions for citizens and for the establishment of policymakers. Demographic policy is not one thing. It requires synergy and cooperation between different policy areas. It requires flexibility and adaptability to the new data. It requires research and continuous monitoring. There are no populisms here, such as the fireworks of the 2 thousand euros thrown by the President of the Officerial Response from the forefront of his party's conference. And irony! He did so on the same day that the conclusion of the Intergroup, which was combined with the agreement of all parties, except Golden Dawn and the JRC, was handed over to the President of the Greek Parliament. Of course, in his party's suggestion to the committee, there is no mention of such aid. Let us assume that the announcement was in the context of the New Democracy's documented proposal 'other day after day, but the next day'! Those who talk about subsidies policies, what do they mean by that? What's that announcement? Mr Mitsotakis promises "we support the family in practice". How many children did the New Democracy Government cover access to nurseries in 2014? Just eighty thousand. We extended the right to the poor and unemployed mother and in 2017 the number reached a hundred and twenty thousand. We have also established the social income of solidarity. School meals are now an institution. We increased family allowances from the first child. We have introduced two-year compulsory pre-school education. We established a single type of full-day kindergarten and primary school. We are strengthening research and innovation, redesigning active employment policies. We amplify primary health care. We support, in practice, gender equality, and in fact, in the next period, a gender equality bill is presented, with the aim of shielding the position of women in Greek society. The last measure is the permission to raise three and a half months to the mothers of substitute teachers. Here I would like to remind you of the tabling of a proposal by SYRIZA Members to adopt the principle of non-discrimination against fixed-term workers at European level since 1999, for which at least twenty convictions have been made against European governments. With its adoption, the non-discrimination regime will be lifted in respect of permits, childbirth, lottery, sickness, etc. In short, we are re-establishing the social state which the neoliberal policies of the previous governments had destabilised. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy - PASOK Governments have broken down labour rights, reached red unemployment, have restored every concept of a social state. And now, with communal tricks and election terminals, they're coming to tell us what? That they're interested in demographics? They promise - after all, safe and retrospective - money and benefits and tax relief when, on their day, they have dismantled the collective agreements and introduced a subordinate wage. The populism in all its majesty! The neoliberal policies of extreme austerity are the ones that persecuted young people abroad, which led to a despair of a large proportion of the population that broke into the social fabric. In conclusion, the demographic issue is not going to be solved overnight. At the heart of its approach lies the strengthening of the social state and the achievement of fair and sustainable development. Powerful social state, fair and sustainable development: that is why we have been struggling for so long and we will continue to fight for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, the Standing Committee on Forward Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: 'Committee on Professional Sport and other provisions'. We move on with Mrs. Vultesis, who closes the first quadrant and then with Mrs. Georgia Genias. Come on, Mrs. Vulture.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to demolish either the work of the committee or the climate of consensus in which it has worked. But I still hear greetings and celebrations for benefits. I heard this just now - I heard - that it is the troika which you would be kicking out, the crisis, the memorials, which you would squeeze at noon. But that's not true. Because the lowest birth rate in Greece appeared in 1999, which had neither the troika nor any of it, and was 1.23 per pair. So, let's see the problem, we need to know what it is, or we can't solve it. The problem at the moment is existential. Last year the Commission study showed a decrease in births of almost 30% over the next fifty years. And I ask: the New Democracy has brought forward a number of proposals on what should be done, not on voluntary proposals, and normal proposals. Reduction of duty is a strategic option. The allowance is another thing. Because I count, of what I have heard from the Minister, that he will tell us that he has raised 50 euros over the past 50 euros there. The allowance never helped - all these years of allowances - to increase births. I don't know what the government says. What's he saying? What are her suggestions? What was he supposed to do? Did he get on something? It was not only necessary to await the conclusion of the committee which we are now discussing, since last year's sitting has been held in the hands of the Commission. SYRIZA and ANEL can't now tell us that they're fresh and nice and young. You've been running for four years. How in these years did you agree on the delivery of the entire public property for a hundred years in the superstition, and you did nothing about the demographic time bomb that will explode in fifty years, half the year from the superstition? How did you agree to an surplus commission by 2060, but on this existential problem that we are discussing here today, which will become an explosive in just 2060, we do not see any concrete action? The benefits, I'm telling you again, I'm not taking them into consideration. If, last year, the Commission's bell, the government had dealt with this issue, it would have taken some action, it would have had a legislative initiative with a strategic objective. Of course, the government in 2018 dealt only with one issue, which is also existential, but from the backwards, the Prespecies Agreement, how to become the first brother of Alexander the Great. A whole year in 2018 you did nothing. Didn't you know that the first home is over? You knew it. It's over on February 28th. All in 2018, what did you do? Nothing. In 2017, Mr. Tsipras held some meetings, but in 2018 nothing. Didn't you know that banks have lost 90% of their stock exchange value, of which 50% in 2018? You didn't say that. You hid it, because if you told us that, every Greek would rise and say, "Don't you let Zafe look at where our banks have evaporated?" But you hid all this. So you did nothing else in 2018. Otherwise, of course, we became a great force after the Prespes! Now, our banks are selling out all their subsidiaries in the Balkans, which you have dominated. Yesterday, Piraeus Bank sold its entire share to Albania, all of its subsidiary. You did nothing about the issue of the first residence and we are still waiting for the troika - which, according to Moscovisi, is gone and will not come back - to answer us. There is no solution at the moment. And I'm asking now how a couple will have a baby when he's in danger, for example, to lose his home? Strategic policy is this: I solve this problem, so it can be certain that you will have the tile over your head. You haven't solved it. Zafe's problem, however, you solved it. How will a child be owed to the public? Over 104 billion are public debts. How will he have a child who gets from the ready to pay tax obligations? In January the deposit reduction was 1.5 billion. The economic climate when they tell us that agonamaha a little over a hundred units, just below the psychological limit of a hundred units, shows that there can be no such possibility of an optimism in order to move forward in solving the problem. Now, if the answer is 'we got out of the memoranda', then after we got out of the memoranda, why has the first home problem not been solved and we are waiting for the European Central Bank? When you tell us that "we are being upgraded by international houses", which SYRIZA called international crooks, when the answer to all of this is, when you say that "we are going out on the markets", that you would be bored by the duogeys and danced the markets that were "doobies", "hards", according to the SYRIZA, and in the meantime the economy is plunging in the way I told you and striving for an allowance policy, how is it possible to deal with the problem? I mean, imagine a couple who want to have a child, thinking that "I'm gonna have to do the kid, but he's gonna have to eat in the piles"? Is that an incentive? Which the government doesn't do, the Niarchus Foundation does, it's just you grabbing where you find it and presenting it. What do you think? A couple, in other words, will say "ah, to have a child, because he will find food in the piles, he will get 10 euros more than the allowance Mrs. Fotio says" and everything will be nice in the country of Madour! There must therefore be a strategy. And do not compare what Mr Mitsotakis proposed with what you say. You are talking about the 'Madour' type allowances. We are talking about action, about tax reduction, about specific things. I would like to finish with this: If all this energy, all that you showed last year to solve Zafe's problem, you showed it to solve this existential problem in the country that will bring about a 30% reduction in population in fifty years, if you had shown it on birth, you would surely have solved the issue. Just now, while you do nothing and cause only existential harm to the country, what have you done? For four years you have survived the impetus given to you by the Samara government, and now you are borrowing from the markets, paving the way for tomorrow's Mitsotakis government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u59	My colleague, Mrs Georgia, has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Vulture, and in 2018 you did nothing. Nor did you look in the mirror or self-criticism have you made yourself a space. Nothing you did in 2010, nor in 2011, nor in 2012, and we will continue to govern.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u61	You rule and you do nothing. Who's ruling?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u62	No personal reports, please. Carry on, Mrs. Genias.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, the demographic issue today lies at the heart of the public debate not only at national but also at pan-European level, as the Elderly Epirus faces both demographic decline and demographic ageing. The 2010 crisis works catalysts, that both the natural balance and the superiority of deaths against births and the migration balance with the superiority of those leaving the country compared to those arriving in the country take a purely negative orbit. The inexhaustible demographic ageing of the population increases demographic pessimism, given that the available projections refer to reductions of up to 1.4 million in 2035 compared to 2015 and up to 2.5 million in 2050. In the Greek case, there is a aggravating factor and the absence to date of a political commitment on the part of the state to resolve the demographic problem. While the Revision of the Constitution in 2001; Article 21(5); incorporated demographic policy in the minds of the state, the provision remained incomplete, without the necessary means of supporting it at the level of legislation or policies. The optimistic thing is that we have all seen and admitted that the problem exists and this is an important step to discuss, propose and ultimately take steps to tackle it. Based on the existing scientific data, but also on what the representatives of the institutions who participated in the committee's meetings, the basic assumption to address the demographic issue is that demographic policy can only be part of an integrated approach, which will be in parallel stepping up and matching the overall development, economic and social policy. In particular, with regard to social policy, demographic policy should meet and complement each other from corresponding employment, family, maternity, gender equality, and child policies. Subsidy support is necessary, but it is not enough alone. This means that subsidised policies should be strengthened and complemented by policies to harmonise family, personal and working life, by safeguards in the event of a loss of work against the risk of household poverty with active employment policies, with targeted policies for the migration and refugee population seeking to prevent and eliminate social exclusion, as well as policies to eliminate gender inequalities and discrimination in the labour market and in private family life. In addition, the integrated approach requires the creation of an effective structure at the level of central administration, which will be responsible for planning, cross-sectoral coordination, monitoring and evaluating the impact and results of the arrangements and policies implemented to tackle demographics in our country. In conclusion, the shift back to positive natural balance requires active state intervention with incentives of quantitative and qualitative nature, but also with awareness and information, in order to challenge well-established and stereotyping attitudes, with a view to policies addressing all the different forms of the modern family and the whole of the Greek society. In this context we are proposing the following political objectives: firstly, gender equality. Secondly, recognition and equal treatment of new forms of family and cohabitation. Kids at the centre of politics. To harmonize working and family life, work and care. Strengthen health infrastructure and services, positive actions to halt youth migration, the well-known Brain Drain and the return of those who have emigrated, social integration of migrants and migrants and cross-sectoral coordination. Here I would like to focus on a few points and I would like to congratulate some of the existing legislative interventions that are moving in a positive direction, as well as some necessary ones. It's one of what we didn't do! First, Law 4521/2018 of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, which regulates two-year compulsory pre-school education. The aim is to prevent school failure, functional illiteracy, reduce school leakage as well as to integrate in the educational system of pupils from vulnerable social groups. Enlargement of the free access of children to nurseries from seventy-nine thousand in 2015 to twenty-seven thousand in 2018 – Ministry of Interior and Labour – strengthening action, harmonising family and working life and increasing the number of children of unemployed and working mothers in the private sector, as well as children from single-parent families who have access to nurseries, the establishment of new kindergartens. Ten thousand new posts in 2018 to 2019, aiming to meet the demand by 2021. Granting an increased child allowance from the Ministry of Labour to more families in need. Plus 100 thousands of rightful families in 2018. We didn't do anything again! There was also the vote of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity regarding the commission of unaccompanied minors, as well as the action to integrate refugees into education. In the health sector, the universal and equal access of uninsured family children to public health and medical care was ensured, while the foundation of the family child at TOMY and health centres in primary health care was established. The establishment of self-employed offices for the protection of minors, the ‘child's House’, the establishment of a child's allowance, the right to register mothers, who are not entitled to benefits from an insurance institution or who are uninsured, are included in the programme for the payment of maternity benefits. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance for a minute. We also have the right of children to health, children's rights to education, culture, sport, child protection, community, dematerialisation, horizontal action on the rights of children with disabilities. Positive actions can still be housing subsidies, the provision of dental care and care services to children, the establishment of family support centres, the reform of family law by regulating, inter alia, child care issues after divorce, the increase in family leave days in the private sector with benefits, the setting up of paternity leave, at least two weeks of compulsory leave with full pay, which may then be extended by covering even longer periods, the introduction of minimum wages at national level, which will guarantee a decent life regardless of sex, age, ethnic or ethnic origin, etc. The social and employment integration of the workforce can undoubtedly face the demographic problem. In conclusion, I would like to say that the demographic issue needs to be tackled with a long-term targeting on a stable and permanent basis, creating horizontal administrative structures, strengthening demographic research and research on gender equality, financing research centres and universities for monitoring and documenting the subject, setting up an Interministerial Committee at the Government Secretariat-General for the planning, implementation and monitoring of policies to address the demographic issue, or even setting up a State Secretary with the establishment of a permanent Intergroup Committee of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, given that magic and automatic solutions do not exist, let us move forward gradually in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Konstantinos Katsikis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Despite the fact that the demographic issue has been raised today by colleagues who have spoken on the basis of the faults of both sides, we will all agree that it is one of the greatest challenges that Greek society has to face, as it concerns our very essence. While, in fact, twenty-six years have passed, as has been mentioned by previous colleagues, from the last conclusion of the Intergroup - I am referring to the 1993 demographic report - the conclusion we conclude this year includes positions and decisions directly linked to the population dimension, as we face the obligation to solve problems relating to the reduction of births and the increase in deaths, creating a negative - negative one, I would say - balance. While the average ageing of the population is increasing, the support needs of pensioners are increasing, the working population is now falling short of the size needed to ensure the desired equilibrium and sustainability of the insurance funds. The fact that deaths in our country in 2017 were about 30% more than births is extremely worrying, but also indicative of the gravity of the situation we are facing. I am in favour of the incentives to repatriate young people who have emigrated by hundreds of thousands abroad in the midst of the economic crisis, while the Greek Government is establishing support measures for young workers, such as subsidising insurance contributions to discourage future brain leaks. Moreover, as the report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament rightly points out, subsidised policies have little effect unless they are combined with substantial measures to enhance employment, improve the income of young people, reconcile work with family and improve their overall living conditions. For this very reason, with the aim of protecting the family, the Independent Greeks have called for the revision of Article 21 of the Constitution and we have proposed introducing the uniformity of the three families with the multitude families, in compliance with the principle of proportionality, which has already dealt with other political forces and other governments. We believe, therefore, that by subduing the laundry to the special protection regime, it is intended to suspend the further demographic ageing of the population and the fight against infertility and to strengthen the national planning of demographic policy. On the basis of this proposal, I can see that there is a modest form of progress in this area, as it is proposed to take measures of a subsidised nature with a view to equating the multitude with third countries in the future. As far as we are concerned, the Independent Greeks have put forward proposals, of which some others have been adopted and others have been rejected. For example, in the report, our objection to the possibility of adopting children from homosexual couples was adopted without that meaning that we do not respect people's rights to sexual orientation, religion and different ethnic backgrounds, to color, etc. We have never disagreed on their right. On the contrary - and I am sorry to say this - our proposal has been rejected, as regulated by the Labour Residence Agency, the social groups' loans managed by the systemic banks. In any case, I would agree with the need to legislate for new couples to facilitate families and obtain the number of children they want, as rightly pointed out in the report. I also think it is right that the proposal for educational and general communication actions to raise awareness of civil society, to inform public opinion about demographic developments and prospects in order to create a demographic education, which will give us all vigilance, ready to assume our responsibilities. In conclusion, we believe in the need to co-operate with the other Member States of the European Union. The inclusion of the demographic issue on the agenda of the European dialogue will highlight the specificity of the Greek issue and will ultimately work positively through the creation of a coherent Union institutional framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, we are interrupting the list of speakers - two have left - and it is called at the Step, as the President of the Group of the Democratic Alliance, Mr Gennimata, has asked for the floor. Here, Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that today the House will stand up to it. Enough of the degeneration and decline phenomena now. We are talking today about demographics, perhaps the most important threat to the future of the country. It is an issue that must finally unite us if we want to deal with it organisedly and effectively. Greece is turning into a country of the elderly, the population is ageing, decreasing. For 2017 alone, the births were thirty-six thousand less than the deaths. If this trend continues, in fifteen years the population will fall from half to half a million. We all understand that the problem is getting worse by leaving young people abroad. There is no need for foreign publications entitled "Where the children went to Greece", to understand exactly what is going on in our country. Whoever doesn't see it is just blind. But we are not here just to make findings. The Greek people have demands from us. They're waiting for us to give solutions. We at the Change Movement have been mobilized. I took the initiative and asked, on 27 April 2017, for the Intergroup Committee of Parliament to be set up for the study and the reasons for the problem, but also for the search for common proposals to address it. It is important that our proposal was accepted, and even after two years we now have the conclusion and proposals of the committee which is an important instrument. It is now time for action, ladies and gentlemen, and bold decisions. Because every delay is expensive. Because negative development in demographics will create risks for our national perspective, it will console all prospects for growth, create asphyxiation in insurance, reduce the role of our country in the wider region and, of course, deepen the gap towards young people and the elderly. Young people today feel deeply wronged over previous generations and I must say that they are right to feel that way. The bad news is, of course, that the institution of the family, which is the core of social cohesion, is being critically affected. They feel, however, so since unemployment and the crisis deprive them of even this right that young children have to make their own family. The jobs are few, mainly part-time, with very low wages, the working conditions of the jungle, the work without hours, obviously, discourages new couples from having a child, the sub-funding of the state left many children outside nurseries and nurseries, and, of course, it constantly degrades public education. In particular, for women, things are increasingly difficult. In practice, motherhood is not protected. On the other hand, I would say that they are a powerful stimulus for recruitment, but also for the development or upgrading of women at work. You will tell me that there is, of course, also the general theme of perceptions, because even couples who have the economic potential choose not to make more than one or two children. So we need to hit that culture too, and this needs a campaign too early, from school, and the state should be organised to do so. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we will not deal with demographics unless we hit poverty unless we give the new couples prospects. There is no doubt that the extermination of taxation and the cuts imposed by the SYRIZANELs have worsened the situation. Everything on the altar of overcrowding. They cut social benefits and in return they return, in the form of temporary allowances, one of the ten that they took from the citizens. This situation must be overturned by the political overthrow and the progressive change that the place needs. Ladies and gentlemen, our firm choice is to support new couples, to upgrade social services, but also infrastructure and, of course, to give strong incentives and facilities for raising children. After all, our prolongation has carried out the biggest areas for the family, for equality, for social structures and services, for children, for the elderly, for the disabled. Today our priority is to motivate new couples to have children. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] Not only with a single bonus, but with their support for the first three years. That is why we propose 200 euros a month for three years for every young child and third parties to acquire the rights of laundry. In particular, our proposal concerns couples without a child and couples with a child who have an annual net family income of up to 25,000 euros, with a housing loan or rent for first home. It also concerns couples without a child and couples with a child who have an annual net income of up to EUR 20,000 without a housing loan or rent. It is a brave measure costing every young child and a new family model and directly responds to the difficulties of new couples. It is also being given - I want this to be clear - with the child benefits that are being paid today. In addition, we have tabled a specific proposal for a law since December with policy measures. Among these, I want to focus on the most important ones. First, a single birth allowance of EUR 1,000 for each child. Secondly, third parties, as I have said, acquire all the rights of the tents. The rights of those who currently have a multinational status are not affected. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] Thirdly, the transfer of basic infant species to the lowest rate of VAT. This is extremely important for new couples. Fourthly, we establish a national savings account for each child with the participation of both the parent and the state. Family participation will be deducted from the corresponding income tax. The only beneficiary will be the child after adulthood in order to use the amount for study or professional activity. Fifthly, every family is entitled to a social check for every child of pre-school age, which guarantees the right to join and care for all children in nursery schools. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] No children outside of nursery and childcare stations! Sixth, housing assistance for each family for a period of two years from having a new child. The housing assistance shall be provided through a reduction in the income tax or special rental allowance or exemption from HICP, depending on whether or not the family is staying in its own home. Seventeen hundred eighty-two creative employment centres and fifty-nine disability creative employment centres are fully integrated into the public services of the municipalities and their social services with their human resources and equipment. Eighth, the inconsistency and incompatibility of family allowances are established. Ninth, family allowances will be paid on condition that children are taught in compulsory education. Tenth, creation of advisory and family support centres in each municipality. These centres obviously operate in addition to the social services of the respective LAGs and provide free consultancy and support services to families with problems, but also to children at risk who currently end up in institutions. The centres are financed by national and Community resources. Eleventh, setting up a National Committee for Demographic Policy to specialise and monitor the implementation of the Intergroup Committee's findings. Representatives of Ministries, Government, Luxembourgs, Women's Unions, ESEMEAs, SA and the political parties of the Parliament participate. Twelfths, setting up a Special Secretariat for Demographic Policy at the Ministry of Labour that will specialise and implement policies either by making available the necessary resources or through effective coordination of the relevant public services. We shall be fighting, and now and after the elections, to act, without discounts and without compromises. Ladies and gentlemen, the regeneration of the social state is a basic condition, and only the social state can guarantee dignity to every citizen, equal opportunities for all, and support for new couples. For us, they are at the core of our policy. In recent years we have seen that both SYRIZA and New Democracy have been operating on the one-off contributions and allowances. With privileged policy and clientele logic that hold thousands of young people hostage, demographic recovery don't wait. These practices belong to the distant past, and we should in agreement leave them behind. We've been overthrowing this kind of logic since the 1980s and then that means we can do it today. The Change Movement, the democratic party, is again in front of this effort. We are therefore calling on the progressive citizens in a great progressive stream for new social achievements, which can give their lives real hope again. We can guarantee and know that we will not betray their expectations, as Mr Tsipras has done. We can be trusted! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u68	The floor is held by the Chief of Staff and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today a matter of critical national dimensions, a risk, I would say, almost existential. Greece is bleeding, gradually losing its people. I must tell you, Mr President, and ladies and gentlemen, that I regret the limited participation in this debate. I am sorry that more political leaders have not taken the floor, including the Prime Minister, who, I do not know, may perhaps come to talk next, because this issue really concerns us all, and it would perhaps be an opportunity to give a total of Parliament an answer to this more general climate of toxicity and polarisation, which threatens to sink political life in the mud, ending in the middle of some policies, which we will be able to serve over time. And that's because demographic policies are not flares of the moment. They are not policies that can be served by a government. It takes depth and length of time and they will show their results - not to be fooled - in a decade from now. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] It would be a wish, therefore, if we could shape a national consensus climate. It seems, however, that for some of these policies that are actually looking at in the future, they are policies that do not match the climate that they want to cultivate and on the road that they want to lead to the forthcoming political confrontation. That's too bad, but I'm looking forward to it. Maybe the Prime Minister will deny me later. Ladies and gentlemen, the evidence presented in the very interesting intergroup report of Parliament is shocking and it is important to hear from this Step once again, so that we can see what course the Greek nation has taken. Since 2011, and for the first time post-war, the population of our country has been falling. Since the 11.1 million then, we have been at 10.7 million last year, and if these rates continue, the Greeks - at least those who live in Greece - will be restricted to 8.9 million by 2050 and 7.3 million by 2080. I sought the comparative data from other times, times hard for Hellenism. You may recall that in another conversation, I had shown a picture of this Step with three smiling, optimistic, unspoken little girls from the Epirus pigeon, to show that in other critical moments in our history we all managed to make a great leap of optimism, despite the objective... [[Mr Alexis Tsipras, President-in-Office of the Council, entered this Chamber]] I'm glad you're here, Mr. Tsipras. So at other times we managed to make this crucial leap in the future and in 1955 we had in our country a hundred and fifty-four thousand births - in post-war Greece of poverty - and only fifty-four thousand deaths. In 2016 we have ninety-two thousand births and a hundred eighteen thousand deaths, a negative balance, that is, twenty-six thousand. This is the reality which we have to face and let us not doubt that a home with a less and less people is at risk of getting shorter, as is a society with children who now believe that they will live worse than their parents. Today Greece has one of the lowest fertility rates throughout the European Union, that is to say, only 1.8 children per pair, compared to 1.6, which is the average European term and 2.1, which must be the birth rate, so that the population does not fall, and the flight of four hundred thousand young people to the most dynamic ages is unfortunately increasing. They are young people with a high level of education. Most of them left because of the economic crisis, but also because of the lack of corruption, and are now looking for better prospects for living and working abroad. Because, unfortunately, today's new generation is the first generation after World War II that does not hope to live better than its parents, thus in practice showing that the social strap of progress has substantially shortened to a Greece that no longer gives opportunities. For many new couples today the creation of a family, the largest, that is, the joy of life, is treated with awe. "I want a second child, but I cannot guarantee him what I want." A young woman and a kid said it the other day. Unfortunately, this is something that we are all hearing. The result is that our population is getting older. In 1950 the average age in Greece was thirty years. Today is forty-three years and although today our fellow citizens, who are over sixty-five, are 21% of the population, in 2050 this category will reach 33%. This dual bomb - fewer and older Greeks - is threatening tomorrow, but it is also questioning today. Because today we will have a smaller number of workers who will produce less and shrink the economy. However, pension support funds are being lost, the health and welfare system is being shattered, which in turn will also dismantle the cohesion of the whole economy. In other words, the future of our nation and country is being undermined. Because without human resources, neither the sovereignty nor the development of a state are supported. And without growth, without jobs, without income, there are no wages, no pensions, no health, no public education or, ultimately, national security. It is no coincidence that in all the long-term reports on the development of the Greek economy, such as the reports published by the International Monetary Fund, the problem of fertility is linked to the eyes of the fund economists at low growth rates in the medium and long term. One of the reasons why the International Monetary Fund estimates that long-term growth rates will only be 1%, is linked to the deep demographic problem facing our country. So here we are, because when we talk about demographics, we are talking about a national existential dispute and away from the dictatorship of news, it is time to catch - all of us together, I would hope - the thread of time. The future, or you plan it, or you undergo its worst version. This is why the New Democracy, with my personal involvement, recommends a total intervention in demographics, a four-way plan: a reduction in the burden of having a child, support for working parents, especially women who are up and running today - let us not fool ourselves - the great burden of raising children and the large families, returning young people who have left Greece and, of course, intergenerational solidarity through a modern insurance system. Undoubtedly, reversal of this demographic trend is not a simple case. Don't be delusional, we won't see results either in one or two years' time. So we should consistently serve a multi-level policy for at least a decade to see real results. And the key to such a policy is its economic dimension. Sporadic benefits in the form of a tip are not a policy for young people who want to have a family. For us, our central aim remains the creation of many thousands of new, well-paid jobs in an economy which will grow at a rate twice as high as today. Ladies and gentlemen, the guidelines of the New Republic's demographic plan are translated into clear concrete measures. With regard to incentives for young parents, I identify four important measures from the package of initiatives that we have announced. Firstly, we are introducing EUR 2 000 direct aid for every new child born in our country. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] To meet the increased needs of the first time, so that childbirth and process and increased needs do not become an impotent factor for any new couples who want to raise their family. The cost of this measure - obviously there may also be reasonable - is that there should also be some income criteria, but high incomes, not middle-class, should actually be borne - does not exceed 150 million a year, i.e. 1/4 of the social dividend, which the government gave last Christmas. The tax-free will have to be increased by EUR 1 000 for every child, so the weaker ones will benefit mainly, who hesitate to have children today, and we should also be able to give additional incentives to couples who give birth to older than thirty years of women, because today the average age of birth of the first child in Greece is little more than thirty years. Third measure. Mrs Gennamas has mentioned it, and it is a good proposal with a small financial footprint. All infant species, sanitary items and women's first need, must be subject to the low VAT rate. Fourthly, it is a proposal I have presented for a very long time. Children's stations for all Greeks. No child out of children's stations with a New Democracy government. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Every family whose child will not find a place at a municipal station will be able to receive a voucher of 180 euros for ten months a year in order to select that station he prefers. And I say this because access to quality care through kindergartens is not only a relief for the family, which very often hesitates to have a child, because there are no or are not available grandparents and grandmothers to care for it, but it is also a prerequisite for the proper academic development of children. That is why two years of pre-school education is right, precisely because we know very well that many of the social inequalities are related to the fact that many children do not have access to pre-school education. They are children, above all, weaker families and we know from studies that they will then be unfair in their academic course. They start their academic life in the first grade with a major disadvantage. That is not acceptable, which is why we are quite clear: no child out of child-care station, two-day kindergarten and a controlled quality in care and the services provided by child-care stations. However, in order to protect young parents and, above all, the new mother, I believe, we are also providing for some more important concrete moves. Firstly, a woman's free choice to set that time of pregnancy and predatory leave so that we can relax the very strict restrictions that exist today. In cooperation with the social partners, we need to increase the leave for single parents, a special category facing additional problems that need targeted social protection. Secondly, to extend protection to the dismissal to twenty-four months, instead of eighteen after birth, because we know very well that, today, there are many unaccompanied employers who do not apply existing labour legislation and exploit their workforce, especially women, in a way that is morally unacceptable and flagrantly illegal. Thirdly, we need specific training programmes, which will wait for those who return to work after the interruption to raise children, because a break in their professional career for something so beautiful cannot become an obstacle to their development. Fourthly, as I have already said, substantial assistance through the children's stations is a follow-up to the gradual implementation of the two-year compulsory pre-school education, but also to the strengthening of the institution of the full-day schools, which must be extended for all Greeks with substantial programmes of activity and study, as well as the learning and certification of foreign languages within the school. Fifthly, we will obviously not neglect existing multitude and third families. We are committed to reintroducing the sums that the government cut last year for the three-tier and tenacious families. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] These specific measures concern the strengthening of new couples to have children, concern the relief of parents, the interconnection of education with children's rearing, the stimulation of a multitude family, and our overall development plan will be achieved and the return of valuable human resources from abroad. That is exactly what the fourth direction of our plan is. We cannot discuss the demographic problem without discussing the challenges facing our insurance system. We have talked about a modern and effective insurance system, which is attractive for all workers to be integrated into it, so that, after the end of their work, they can spend all their work during their working lives and effectively so as not to be burdened, but rather to contribute to the development of the economy. I also had the opportunity to refer to our plan in the Association of Insurance Companies a week ago, which is systematically distorted by the Government. It's okay. We're used to such propaganda. Only at some point should you explain to us why you consider it progressive not to apply a three-pillar system in our country, as it applies to all European countries. I repeat, there is no European country that is serious today, which has not implemented a three-pillar system in insurance. [[Applause from a New Democracy ward]] With the first pillar, there will be a national pension for all Greeks and a contributory part of the contributions for the main pension. In the second pillar, there will be an individual bank that will create reserves and returns according to each employee's contributions. This is particularly true of young workers, who are currently uninsurance-free. Thirdly, there will be a voluntary source - the third pillar - which will create an additional private-security capital. These interventions, ladies and gentlemen, are directly linked to the programme, which we have presented, for health. There, the project, which we called "Doxiadis Stavros", for prevention, but also policies for those who have chronic problems, aim to improve the quality of life, protected by a strong system of insurance. It is precisely because, ladies and gentlemen, the demographics have two sides. It has a view of the need to increase population, but also of active and qualitative ageing, how people can be more active in the years of their lives after retirement and how we truly ensure quality old age. And, of course, at some point, we should discuss and if we are interested in allowing pensioners to work in the private sector without cutting their pensions. We must not condemn people who are obliged to retire when they may want to continue to be financially active. Ladies and gentlemen, I have presented the broad guidelines and the special measures of the New Democracy to address the demographic problem. This is a series of targeted and costly interventions so that we can have more Greeks and fewer parents to fight for how to make a family, have families with more children in a country with many employees, all insured and a healthier and more efficient society. This is an overall view of the problem, which includes, at the same time, policies on social protection, education and health and, of course, the economy. I must point out, however, that the demographic deficit, which I have spoken about and which is so intense in our country, is not only a Greek problem, but also a pan-European problem. That is why we need to put this as a special priority on the European agenda, to create a multi-faceted policy in a European context of family support and support. At national level, however, we must promote the notion of a demographic clause in every legislation, so that all laws can be checked on their impact on existing families and on young people's choices. Of course, Parliament's demographic policy office, which the Scientific Committee on Population is asking for, can undertake this work and it is necessary to establish it. In addition, there are many other side issues relating to demographics, and they must be dealt with intergrouply with realism and boldness, such as adoptions, sub-peripheral couples and shocking - I repeat, the shocking - large number of abortions in our homeland. We have already tabled a clear and well-worked programme for the issue of adoption for two and a half years now on how we can facilitate adoption in our country. On the issue of infertile couples, we need to consider the financial possibilities of supporting those couples, which are in need - and are increasingly - in artificial fertilisation solutions. For that reason, I will only say a large number of abortions: they are estimated at about fifty thousand a year in our homeland, although we do not have precise information. Many of these abortions occur in couples who already have children. Just think a little bit: if we could even 10% of these abortions to avoid, we would talk about 15% more births in our homeland than couples who already have children, want to have children, and yet they are already in a possibility that they can support children. So, too, I think we should really be concerned about this. The truth is that the problems that we are discussing today go beyond the horizon of a government mandate, I mean - as I said before - the results become visible many years later. Their examination, however, is neither in laboratory conditions nor in a neutral political time. They are objectively linked to the economic situation, to the political climate, to the juncture. Unfortunately, at both these levels, the climate is negative. So demographics - and I am closing down with this - are also part of the central demand of all Greeks, demanding a major political change. Because in the end only the economic recovery of Greece will produce greater wealth, more jobs and allow us to finance an effective demographic policy, a fruitful policy, literally. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u70	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they have previously participated in the "The King and the Revolution" programme organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st Agia Paraskevi. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The President and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Alexis Tsipras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, it is extremely useful, interesting, but also crucial for the future of this debate that is taking place from the outset, and I would like to congratulate the work of the intergroup parliamentary committee and the report on demographics, but also to note that it is encouraging - it is not often the case, so I must point out that this report of the intergroup parliamentary committee on demographics is almost unanimous, that is, that is to say, voted by most parties, if I am not mistaken, with the exception of the JRC and the Golden Dawn. Of course, I will agree with some of the formalities - one cannot disagree with them - and the Chief of Anti-Population who spoke before, saying that this is a problem which is not just about today and tomorrow, but about any political errands, results will be seen in a long-term horizon. And, of course, to highlight the correctness of this observation, I would say that there was a long way before the crisis. Since the 1990s, the prospect of the demographic problem has been highlighted in the country. In 1993, the first committee was set up, although in the 1990s we had an increase in the population, but it also had to do with the integration of migrants at that time. Since then, however, the prediction of worsening the problem has been made clear because of infertility. I would therefore like to continue by recording my disagreements with Mr Mitsotakis, as well as my feeling that on a number of issues relating to these policies, it is not fully informed, which I will analyse briefly. So what I will disagree with is the assessment that demographic is not just an issue that can be addressed with a proper or wrong strategy on individual issues. Not that this strategy on individual issues is not a matter today, but I would say that the demographic problem is a matter of an overall strategy. It is a consequence of the way in which we choose to organise our society, if, in other words, we are able to opt for a model of social reproduction, in which population growth will be the logical consequence of improving the living conditions of the social majority, or, on the contrary, if the model, which we choose, is what it considers appropriate for a method of social reproduction, where the consequence of population decline is a small, insignificant detail, a parallel loss in the face of the prosperity of a social minority which, possibly, enjoys privileges and riches. So what I am saying is that even if we do not often see the reference to the demographic issue here in the House and outside the House, in fact this competition is behind every word and every proposal put forward by every political force. Because the way in which we vision growth, the way in which we envision social formation, the structure of the economy, how we vision the reduction of unemployment, the social state, education, the insurance system, all the crucial issues of the public sphere, is also a single response to the great problem of demographic change. Our homeland saw its population decline perhaps a little more than three hundred thousands of people during the hard years of the crisis, in 2011-2016, according to ELSTAT's figures, due to a decrease in births, due to an increase in deaths, but also to the phenomenon of Brain drain and the fleeing mainly of young people - unfortunately - abroad. So if we want to talk about the substance of a prospect of overthrowing this trend, of reducing births and increasing deaths, that is to say, the tendency to make the birth rate more and more negative, we must conclude that, firstly, it cannot happen through austerity policies, the burglary of social cohesion. Secondly, this overthrow of this trend cannot happen without an integrated policy of integration - integration of migrants. I would like to analyse it separately and try to deal with the first, namely, the current concept of the competitiveness of the economy, which can only be based on the reduction of labour costs, the reduction of labour rights, and the reduction of wages and the reduction of all acquired rights, both labour and social protection, which were built in Greece - perhaps shortly after the war. I would therefore like to make a special reference to work, but also to policies for the child. I shall start with the question of work, because I believe that the question of work is the number one in the case of social reproduction. Greece five years ago was a country where something less than a third of its workforce was out of production. Even worse, almost two thirds of young people were in the same situation as twenty-five years. It is clear that in such a environment, planning for the future, thinking about the family, about having children for more and more of the population of young people, for the majority of young people, has become a dream of fraud. Waiting for a better life has become a daily, stressful struggle for survival. The country at the height of the crisis was a country inviolable for the most powerful part of society. And that was why, if you wish, which we said at the very first moment that the question of work is a national objective and we have set priority on this issue - despite the fact that we have been in conditions of budgetary suffocation and budgetary limitation - we have set a national objective first of all the creation of new jobs. In the first five years we have had a collapse of employment, of work in our country. Unemployment climbed to 28%. We had a loss of almost one and a half million. Today, we have a reversal of this trend. We have more than three hundred and fifty thousand new jobs, which is reflected in the figures that measure unemployment. In measuring unemployment, we had nine percentage points lower than the painful moment of 2014 that recorded 28% of unemployment. So today, it's 18.5%. Secondly, we have worked to improve working conditions, not only to increase employment and reduce unemployment. We organised from zero to zero the Labour Inspectorate, who was a deaf, in fact, to make a cake with various employers when they were caught in the act not to record their illegality. We've chased off offense in all areas. We restricted undeclared work to 9%, when it had arrived in 2014 even 20% in the areas of high infraction. The state stepped foot on working wings that employed hundreds of undeclared, uninsured, mostly young people, with exhausting hours, who obviously had nothing to do with the institutionalised eight hours. Thirdly, we proceeded immediately after leaving the memorandum into two key actions for the overall increase in wages: the reintroduction of the basic principles of collective bargaining and the increase of the minimum wage by 11% and 27% for young people, after abolishing this shameful provision of the Samara government, 2012, for the under-subordinated wage of the young to twenty-five years. The reduction in unemployment, the protection of work, the conditions of work and the increase in wages are therefore a prerequisite for a single strategy that can give a prospect of overthrowing this phenomenon. And I would say that it is a necessary and capable treaty for the gradual overthrow of trends in demographic deterioration. Work is a factor of stability in a man’s life. Without the restoration of this basic term, any design of the future is a foul and dubious design. That is why I believe that work deregulation recipes, dominating over the last 20 years and in Europe, - neoliberal recipes, your views, we have ideological differences - the break-up of labour relations, wages in the name of supposedly the competitiveness of the economy, nor competitiveness. The only thing they can achieve is to make social conditions more difficult, to break down social cohesion and thus to endure the future of the next generations and to exacerbate the demographic problem. This is also the case in Europe, but, of course, in our country too. How can a young man have a family, want to live in the country with dignity, with dreams, when the prospect of his work is uncertain, when even if there is a prospect of work, is it not in decent terms, when the father does not have the family to find a home? These are the questions we have to answer, especially now that we are coming out of the crisis. So here, indeed, we need an active policy framework. You call it tips. We think it's not tips. Not at all. The rental subsidy, for example, which we are now establishing and voted on, which concerns 300 million a year, will cover a large part of the needs of young people, especially who want to make a family and who do not have that possibility. Because, above all, young people lie within these income criteria, which we have established. Two hundred thousand households will be covered immediately. In the next few days, the platform begins and we will also see the results of participation in the rental subsidy. Thus, the increase in minimum wage, the improvement of working conditions, collective agreements, the rental subsidy is a framework, a set of policy, which can, in fact, contribute to a gradual response to the phenomenon. Next axis, extremely critical for demographics, are policies for the child. I feel that you are not sufficiently informed by your partners about what has already been done. Because, indeed, I do not want to respond in the same way as you respond to institutionalised interventions and policies, that they are tips. I, too, could say that 2,000 once with the child's birth is a tip because it does not deal with the problem. No, it's serious what you're suggesting. However, you have not been informed rather - as what you are suggesting obviously and with data and income criteria will not be a public expenditure of more than 100 million - that when we received in 2015, the expenditure on the child was EUR 822 million per year, and today the expenditure on the child is EUR 1.416 million per year. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I will tell you in detail, because we believe that the actions we have already taken, despite the - I repeat - narrow budgetary frameworks that we all know, were flagrant actions, because we actually have come to overthrow a model that only concerned the vulnerable categories. We have therefore increased the public spending budget for the child by 72%. We increased the amount of family allowances from 650 million in 2015 to 1,1 billion euros today, corresponding to eight hundred thousands of families and 1,4 million children in 2015 and now they are nine hundred thousand families and 1,6 million children. That's why I'm saying they're probably not informing you right, as you said you'd bring back all the allowances that we abolished. If you say that, in fact, it's like saying you're going to take away what we've given. Because for the first time we have come and have established allowances for families with a child, for families with two children and not just for three-size families. The total number of subsidised families - I repeat - has gone from 809,000 to 926,000, the total number of subsidised children from 1,434,000 to 1,161,000. We'll give you detailed tables and data because, okay, disagree with ideas and policies, but not in fact, on facts. That's data. However, 52% of the three-tier and multi-tender families already in 2018 have increases compared to the previous year, in 2017. And, of course, for families with a child there have been very significant increases - very important increases! - which is extremely critical. Because what we have to reward and strengthen with motivation is to have a couple of young people, to have the second child, and I wish we could get to the point that we could also give incentives for the third child. But at the moment, the problem is that no one dares to have the first child. We have also adopted, ladies and gentlemen, the institution of school meals that today are given to a hundred and fifty-three thousand children throughout the country. In three years we increased government funding to get 60% more children into kindergartens. And that is also something that you probably haven't been informed about, Mr Mitsotakis. Of course, and you are saying in your programme: 'No child outside nursery and childcare stations'. Is there anyone who will disagree with that? I will not compare you now with what we have received and whether this is your real political will, because over the past few years the picture has been different. And I say that because in 2015 we had seventy thousand vouchers for nursery stations, and this year we have given a hundred twenty-seven thousand vouchers. This is 60% more children, a very significant increase in state funding. But is the problem? And ask to be informed. The problem is not that there is insufficient government funding, expenditure or subsidy, because you say in your programme that you will solve it by giving each child EUR 1,800 per year. But do you know how much we give today? From 2.375 to 2.945 for infants and from 1.805 to 2.375 for infants. It's a lot more than you say you give. The problem is that there are no adequate kindergartens and nurseries in the country, whether public or private. And there are obviously no, because - as you rightly said, these issues are not solved from one day to the next - there has been no planning over the past few years. And today we are actually struggling to motivate children's and nursing homes. Since January 2019, we have a programme in progress, totalling EUR 15 million, to establish tens of thousands of new posts in nurseries. I would also like to tell you that the two-year pre-school compulsory we have instituted it. In other words, do not announce things that have already been established. So far there have been hundreds of ten municipalities, setting up five thousand new posts and moving to cover the whole amount. We have, however, voted for it in the House. You, who announces that you will do it while it has been done, what did you vote on it? You have voted 'present', Mr Mitsotakis! I guess some of your partners aren't telling you right. Our aim is therefore, in the next few years, indeed to have cover at nurseries for a hundred and fifty thousand children, because our objective must be 'No child outside nurseries', so as to enable young parents - workers or unemployed people, especially workers who do not have where to leave their children - to be able to leave their children, to have creative employment. This is also very crucial for reducing infertility, for combating the problem of demographics. I should like to say here that while, until now, this subsidy for children, these vouches, only concerned working mothers, we have institutionalised them to be unemployed and, of course, this is particularly important - poor mothers, those who do not have the opportunity to have access to certain private stations. Finally, we chose to weight on a highly critical issue in which the Greek state chose to close its eyes, subordinate to bureaucracy, stereotypes and social conservatism over time. And that's what you've come to announce today, but it's been a state law for over a year. I am referring to the national strategy for decoupling, that is, the new institutional framework for adoption. This was an extremely important institutional cut, which reduces the waiting time to eight to twelve months from four to six years for the adoption of a child. There were delays which, as we all know, often fuelled an unacceptable phenomenon of child trafficking. The whole system is now becoming imprecise and digital and all institutions acquire a special disinsurance unit, linked to the Ministry of Social Solidarity. Our absolute priority is that all children born and growing up in this place should not be deprived of the basics. And let me make a comment here, because I also read the report, I noticed: Expenditure on the child in Greece was at these very low levels that rank us - they ranked us at the lowest levels of spending throughout the European Union - not now, to say things with their name, not just in the period of crisis. During the period of the thick cows, when the strong Greek economy was making 'Olympices', during the period of strong Greece of the Exchange, of high growth rates of 4% and 6%, we had the lowest expenditure on the child in the European Union. That is why I would like to question something else you have said, with reference to some of the elements of the International Monetary Fund. It is not a linear function for growth to the level of social protection. It is not a linear function of growth rates with the level of social cohesion that can create conditions for overthrowing demographic developments. It is a matter of political choice and strategy. At the time of the thick cows, the strong and great Greece, the economy that was blossoming, we had these phenomena. So crime in the country is not just that some have bankrupt the country and led it to an unprecedented economic crisis, the worst in Europe, which has dissolved the social fabric, but that much before they left society unprotected when there were possibilities to build a social state. Because other countries that have had a crisis - not as hard as we have - had a social state. This is the great crime of what we call the 'old political system' that has ruled the country for years. Of course, no one today claims that there are still no great difficulties, no one claims that our fellow citizens still do not have a hard time, no one claims that by magic the crisis is over. However, I do believe that there are no crocodile tears in place, nor in demographic terms by political forces which, in practice and with their events at the peak of the crisis, considered the policies for the child to be unnecessary waste and, of course, the political forces which, through their political choices, aggravated this course. I would like to finish my speech on demographics with a reference, as I originally promised, on the third axis - central in my opinion - an overall strategy to tackle demographics, which is not just about the economy and the concept of social policy, but about a difficult subject. We have disagreements on this issue not only in Greece, but also in Europe, with conservatives. It is an issue that may have been taboo a few years ago to discuss it here in the House openly. But I want to say some truths. I am referring to the crucial issue of the immigration problem. According to the data from the Max Planck Institute, countries which, despite the recent rise of the far-right in some cases, have integration and integration policies in Europe and more specifically of naturalisation of immigrants - whether for long-term residents permanently resident in the country or much more for second- and third-generation immigrants - are expected to see overturning the poor forecasts for demographic, i.e. to see an increase in their population. Such countries are Germany, France, Spain, Sweden, Belgium. It is estimated that they will increase their population significantly by 2050, mainly because of their migration policy. Instead, countries that are leading this modern crusade against refugees and immigrants from other continents and envision the 'closed border Europe', 'clean Europe' - most of them in Eastern Europe and the Baltic - are expected to have a dramatic decline in their population both because of the non-incorporation of migrants and because of the permanent fleeing abroad. And the crucial question is - since you say that we should not just discuss with our eyes at the current juncture, but in the future - that: Greece in which countries do we want it to be classified? Which side of history does he choose to stand on? Political choices in the recent past - with the exception of brilliant exceptions that simply confirm the rule - tend to be in the second example, to rank us together with the countries of Eastern Europe and the Baltic on this issue. But I will say clearly that we believe that this is a disastrous road and there has never been a one-way road for the country, because this country is on a crossroad of continents, on a crossroad of cultures. On this crossroads the world, the ecumenical civilization, the ancient Greek civilization was born and raised. And I believe that we are a country that must have national pride and national self-confidence, to believe that the integration of people from other countries here is not a threat, but is a wealth. Let me remind you again that in the 1990s, despite the unpleasant forecasts of demographic change, the country increased its population by about seven hundred thousand citizens, but this has resulted by 97% from immigrants and only 3% from the prevalence of births against the deaths at that time. Therefore, those who cultivate the concept of racism, nationalism, the idea of race cleanliness, do not only spread hatred and division within Greek society, mutilate the Greek society. And, of course, those who talk about 'blacks', about 'invaders', about supposedly a threat to the customs of the place, those who turned their backs to thousands of second generation immigrant children, but hypocritically they rush to take pictures next to a second generation child who makes us proud in the United States of America, Antetokunbo, and his family, a proud family of immigrants from Nigeria, who four of the five children were born here and grew up in Patisia, and grew with suffering and difficulties and loved Greece. They are more Greek than others who represent Greeks. That's the big hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u72	I gave the citizenship.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u73	That's the big hypocrisy. That's exactly what I'm saying, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u74	You gave it to Mr. Athanasios, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u75	A little understand, Mr Athanasios, what exactly do I want to say, that you saw the one exception, at the same time that you were denying the right of two hundred and thousands of children who were born and raised here, who have the same rights, the same struggles, the same hopes, the same Greek soul as the one to whom you gave citizenship, to acquire it. That's the big hypocrisy. So, ladies and gentlemen, what we are proposing is that, despite our disagreement, we have made a report on demographics, to agree unanimously, if you have the daring that, with regard to these people, for whom Greece has become their own country, we should not deprive the generations of Greeks of different origin, nationality and colours of the prospect of being Greek, to love Greece, to create for Greece, to make us proud of Greece. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Since 2016, when the new legal framework for citizenship began to apply, sixty-five thousand young people and young people born and raised here have so far acquired Greek citizenship. But not everyone. The rhythms are extremely slow. That's why we built a special citizenship secretariat to speed up the process. Two hundred thousand children still have not received Greek citizenship. Instead of accusing us of not speeding up, you accuse us of having a plan to salvage the electorate, considering a priori that those people who enter and join the Greek society - like Antetokounbo - are not going to vote on you. Well, they're not going to vote on you because you've approached the most extreme and right-wing logic, behavior and rhetoric. However, we cannot function with this micro-political approach, when we are dealing with not only a problem of a humanitarian dimension, that is, humanity, to say it simply, but also with a problem of the future of the country, because demographic is the future problem of the country and of the European continent. We will therefore continue to work for a society that is inclusive, for a country that must be a model of coexistence and solidarity, for a country that must embrace the wealth of traditions and different origins, in two words for Greece of open horizons, as it was in its greatest moments of history. I close, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that the demographic situation remains a key issue which cannot be seen in fragmentary terms. It requires political will, plan, principles, and especially, as I said at the outset, the implementation of a comprehensive strategy to improve the living conditions of Greeks and Greeks, all those living in this country. A great step forward in being able to look more optimisticly at the future of this place was the exit from the memoranda. I would therefore like to end by congratulating you once again, Mr Mitsotakis, because in another prediction you have fallen in! As you said we will not finish the evaluations, as you said we will reduce pensions, as you said we will not get out of the memoranda, so you have predicted that we will not get out of the market. So today, I have to tell you that another prediction of yours has proved to be a prediction of a fickle failure. The country comes out in the markets with ten years of bonds, with much better conditions than the terms that it had last come out before the crisis. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The tenders are already at an admirable level today, and that marks a hope and a prospect. It is a sign that we are turning a page, that we come out of the time of crisis, but also a sign of hope and perspective that something can change and that things will get better. I advise you to continue your successful predictions and, above all, continue to say that the New Democracy will win the next elections! I guess you're doing us good!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-four students and students and fourteen educational sessions from the Special Professional Gymnasium of Agrinio. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The speech is given by the Secretary-General and President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitris Koutsoubas. Please, Mr President, wait a minute for some of the colleagues who want to leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on demographic developments in our country from a birth reduction and an increase in the average age of population to migratory flows, we were sure - and in practice confirmed by the debate so far - that it would be accompanied by a lot of hypocrisy doses. We do not overlook that, in demographic trends, there are also factors relating, of course, to cultural traditions, to the culture of the people, to the development of the position of women in society, to work and to the family. The main one, however, in the decision of a new couple about when and how many children are going to do the economic and social conditions in which he lives. The investigations that were presented to the Committee of Parliament appear to have strengthened the tendency to postpone the first child at an even higher age in the years of the capitalist economic crisis. And you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, like the previous ones of the New Democracy and PASOK - KINAL, have taken care of young people - especially young women - to postpone the creation of a family, under the insecurity of unemployment, labour wandering, labour jungle, immigration, minimum and subordinate rights. It is hypocrisy, therefore, to come with proposals for so-called support measures for the new couple when, with your signatures in the Memorandum Anti-Alpine Laws, you have deleted from the youth vocabulary the right to permanent and stable work. You are presenting the European Union's reactionary guidelines as a modern one for the famous, supposedly equal opportunities in employment. Equal opportunities, however, run counter to universal social rights. Your equal opportunities mean flexible work, with flexible rights, spasms and irregular hours, work on Sundays. The results are well known. At European Union level 31.5% of female workers work parttime. How will a girl decide to create a family when with your anti-engineering arsenal you have let magnanimity fade out literally? Don't you know about the blackmailing of this capitalist employer in new inhabited girls to put in the refrigerator, to keep the joy of maternity in the cold? Because they want to disembowel workers, especially women, without holidays in their working lives and without other personal family obligations. It is a challenge to discuss demographic indicators and, at the same time, motherhood to become synonymous with unemployment, redundancies and private sector enterprises, of course, but also with the public. Do you not know about the redundancies of pregnant or new infants, some of whom were under fixed-time contracts or fixed-term contracts? In other words, their right to the protection of maternity is not necessarily covered. There are cases of young women who lose their maternity leave allowance because they have not completed the two-fifths to get it. Because motherhood is a cost, you see, for the state and for the monopolies. Here the SYRIZA government has also given some recent examples of writing. Women teachers, who work as substitutes, are a characteristic case. They are in front of the prospect of dismissal when they are faced with a difficult pregnancy when they cannot return to order in a short time after birth. How does the government, the Ministry of Education, deal with this? It maintains the lousy employment relationship of the deputies, while the recent ministerial decision provides for the granting of a child's child's leave for three and a half months to workers as substitute young mothers, which they can only take until their contract ends in June. In other words, they must plan to get pregnant before school starts to get all three and a half months' leave. Here you do not have the problem of co-service for permanent teachers, nor do you implement any elementary measures to support the families of thousands of teachers and health workers who work away from their homes, away from their family, from their children. In the same direction, the proposal of the New Democracy, which is helping young mothers to extend flexibility to the leave for pregnancy and preservatives, is moving. Flexibility comes to support only the needs of the capitalist employer rather than the working mother. However, modern and progressive is the equal participation of all women in social work, on the basis of the subject of specialization, with fewer hours of work, increases in wages, measures to protect maternity, the women's organization at the workplace, with maternity leave for all workers, regardless of their employment relationship. Progressive is the abolition of flexible working relationships. Conservative and reactionary today is one job to share in two - three workers and workers. Conservative and reactionary are the directions of the European Union, which you are running to implement, SYRIZA's gentlemen, by means of the so-called reconciliation, he says, of family and working life. Sounds good, but that's the point. This is all the anti-grassroots measures that you are going through to manage the heightened consequences of extending women's wage earner work, lack of maternity support, in terms of shrinking, supplying health services. In the current health system in which health, like human labour force, is a commodity, reproductive processes, general prevention and treatment, prenatal control, pregnancy monitoring, delivery, family planning and medically assisted reproduction, are only an individual family matter. For all this to be done, i.e. areas of profitability in the private health business, but also in public health establishments, since part of the examinations, treatments, medicines are not compensated by the EEA. And what is covered by the EEAS, however, in practice cannot be done in public units, due to subscribing, lack of equipment, infrastructure, so that new couples are forced into search for services in the private sector, paying extra sums. Public maternity hospitals, other state structures for mother and newborn child, are also inadequate and nonexistent in several cases. It is no coincidence that the sector of obstetrics and gynecology, as well as the modern possibilities created by the evolution of science, such as medically assisted reproduction, ova and cordial cells, are largely an area of activity of the private sector with a turnover of EUR 30 million per annum. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the debate on demographics, SYRIZA and New Democracy you have literally competed with the curriculum of the European Union. You have been involved in proposals for one-off allowances, one-stop-stop-stop-shop coupons, and one-stop-stop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop. In other words, we have heard proposals that consolidate today's barbarism that experience new couples or new mothers. Even from your point of view, the so-called reconciliation of professional and family obligations is not linked, at least, to extensive social infrastructure covering mother's working hours, the time necessary to cover other family needs. The features of EUROSTAT are features of the care and education of children of pre-school age. Percentage of less than 10% of children up to three years old and less than 60% of children from three to six years old are covered by pre-school care structures in Greece. Municipal stations remain shrinking, inadequate, in rentals, inappropriate many times, buildings to securely carry out pedagogical work. A corresponding explosive is the condition of the special treatment. According to European Union figures, 12.5% of the total school population needs special education and education. But today ten thousand children are registered in public special primary and secondary schools, three thousand children in parallel support, while in 2008 they were twenty thousand students. In the private special treatment centers, some 40,000 to 50,000 children are enrolled. Even so-called educational and advisory support centres operate without a developmentist, without a pediatrician, without a pediatrician, so that early examination and diagnosis for another child are significantly delayed. You present as progress the awarding of the teachers' association to set up a support team for the child with learning difficulties, in which one expert may not participate. Of course, your hypocrisy is overshadowed when you talk about single family support benefits, when you have cut state funding for social benefits, while the SYRIZA Government keeps cutting the childbirth allowance, which you only pay to those women who give home. That's what you're talking about, gentlemen of SYRIZA, young women giving birth like their grandmothers half a century ago. The JRC voted against the JRC's resolution on the abolition of social benefits, as well as the multinationals, and rejected their restriction by tightening the criteria, such as income and assets. We have put these issues in the workers' organisations too, in order to be goals of fighting and demanding the movement. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is also characteristic of how demographic developments are exploited in relation to the sustainability of the social security system. In a recent study of "internationality" in 2018, it states: "The pool of pensioners is expanding, as the population of over 65 is increasing and also at the same time the working age population is decreasing. The only cause of the decline in the share of active population is the proportional increase in the elderly and, by extension, the pensioners. The pension system will be further aggravated by increasing life expectancy of about one year each.” It is a study presented on February 7, 2018. Basically, you are seeking extortionist dilemmas to subject workers and pensioners to the reinsurance overturns carried out by all governments, of course, on the basis of the guidelines of the European Union. You are provokingly talking about active ageing and flexible retirement, namely working toward deep ageing and trying to survive with a partial pension and part-time wage. In fact, the proposals from all the other parties "made in European Union" here lead to the fragmentation of the social life of the woman, confronting her right to work with the social need to protect motherhood and family. You present as a matter of individual responsibility and competence the choice between professional development and the creation of a family. Invoking discrimination against women in the labour market and of interest in a better distribution of childcare responsibilities and elderly people among men and women serve the objective of generalising flexible forms of employment throughout the labour force. It is characteristic that, for the sake of managing the prolonged economic crisis, they also revived theories that propaganda that the woman must stop her work for a period of time even until the children go to school or are dedicated - it says - to the exclusive mother's breast feeding for over two years. The other side of the same anti-Saladian, darkening coin is the well-known reactionary views of the Nazi Golden Dawn, the fascists, for the role of women inside the family. They even propose the abolition of the legislation that legalised abortions and other reactive and backward-looking, such as the strengthening of mothers who choose not to work, so that they can only take care of their children. The JRC on the basis of modern social needs formulates concrete proposals that are included in the findings in the House on modern women's rights at work, social support for motherhood, the single parental family, so that it is genuinely free to choose a new couple about when to have children and how much, based on mutual respect between the two sexes, based solely on physical, mental, mental attraction, without being limited by economic or other social factors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u78	It is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "ELLIOS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, 47 students and students and three teachers from the General School of Eretria. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Stavros Theodorakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u79	Every two-three months or even more often beating a bell for the demographics, a clue, a research, a forecast. The question is, what do we do beyond swinging the head with despair? The demographic problem is obviously twofold. On the one hand we have a reduction in the number of children per couple, so negative birth-death balance and on the other, we have a negative migration balance, as our young people, when they finish high school, go abroad to study and later work because they have no motive to stay in the country, to create, to have a family. One would expect that the first concern of the political system - primarily the government - would be to stop student migration with the establishment of non-state universities, with foreign-language programmes in public universities, with links between universities and the labour market and entrepreneurship. But you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, are insisting today, in 2019, on telling young people "go abroad for studies". Ladies and gentlemen, the rights of young people are in this country on a second fate, not today, but decades ago, perhaps because unlike pensioners, unlike civil servants, young people have no trade unions. Watch out. You know, but I will say it again: the expenditure on family and child support as a percentage of GDP is the smallest in Europe. Greece's expenditure on unemployment is the lowest in the Eurozone countries as a percentage of GDP. On the contrary, pension expenditure is the highest in Europe as a percentage of GDP, 16% in Greece, 10% to 11% in the Eurozone. If, at the beginning of the crisis, the political system had agreed to abolish early retirement and if we had moved towards a reasonable increase in age limits, an increase in life expectancy, then many painful cuts would have been avoided. So the Potami will insist on transgenic justice as a compass for all our economic and social decisions. That is why we have now proposed that transgenic justice be a constitutional rule and not just an amendment to a bill, an extra debate in this House. We therefore want to redistribute social expenditure with priority - I will say again - to young people, to unemployed and to families with children. Even today, in Greece 2019, there are children outside nurseries, when it is globally accepted and proven that equality and equal opportunities have their foundations in pre-school age. We want, by continuing, zero insurance contributions for a five-year period to young self-employed and scientists who create their own business and radical redesign of the insurance system with less compulsory contributions and more rewarding benefits, as we have proposed since 2016. The reform of insurance is not a question of ideological confrontation that we have often seen in recent years, but of irrevocable demographic reality. We want a reduction in the total amount of taxes and contributions that the worker has to pay, because when the worker pays over 55% in taxes and levies, he has no incentive to remain in the country. He has no motive to operate in the country. He's going to neighboring countries. The sum - says the Potami - taxes and contributions to a fair society cannot exceed 40% of average income. And tax-free, of course - others have said so here - it should be considerably increased and should be in line with the number of children in each family. We want - I see young people watching us - the creation of two nodes of new business in Thessaloniki and Athens, with a public-private partnership. Finally, we want, gentlemen of the New Democracy, children of migrants who end the Greek school automatically acquire Greek citizenship, without any other condition. It is shameful that there are immigrant children who have been to primary school for six years, three years in high school, three years in high school and in university waiting if and after they have taken Greek citizenship. So to return to the words of Kostis Stefanopoulou, who said that those who honor Greek schools, who are present in Greek schools, who study Greek education, are automatically Greek. And then fight for their parents. It's another case.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u80	Mr President, I am sorry, I do not want to interrupt you, but the Constitution talks about compulsory education nine years ago. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u81	I hear your remark. We can find a solution, and I think we should find it in a European direction. The children of immigrants and refugees who end Greek school and have studied at the Greek school must automatically, without any other condition, receive Greek citizenship. Ladies and gentlemen, I will choose two of the elements that are not both as predicted. We have fewer births outside of marriage. It's only 9%, while in the Eurozone it's over 40%. In addition, we should note that what predominates women is the fear of the only parental family, that is to say there will be no support if you have a child and you have to raise it yourself. We therefore need support for women with clean rules in the public sector, but above all in the private sector, because we have to admit that many times dominate apartheid rules in the private sector for young women. The other thing that needs to be considered is that from the countries of the European Mediterranean, Greece is here, in demographic terms, at the worst. You know it. In 2050 it is estimated that Greece will have a population of less than nine million. It is the biggest reduction in all Mediterranean countries. In Spain, in fact, they estimate that they will increase the population. Why? Why are our young people leaving for the north? Because the workforce - I said it and I will say it again - is going where there are prospects. Obviously, it is the creative ones who leave, who are concerned. Those who live are some brave people who will always be there to try both pensioners, civil servants and those who hope to be appointed. So I will not celebrate, like the other Chiefs, the joint conclusion of the intergroup on demographics. Potami would celebrate if we understood a policy of priority among young people, at work, at family level. Unfortunately, however, political decisions and debates in the House are usually looked at in the next polls rather than in the next generations. We will insist that the creation ceases to migrate and that clientele remains here. Politics is priorities in the allocation of resources, in the promotion of reform. However, all these priorities need to be integrated into a project which for us has a title: "Greece otherwise". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr. Theodorakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, could I have the floor for a moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u84	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, I did not want to interrupt the Chief of the River. I just wanted to intervene in the previous suggestion of the Secretary-General of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Koutsouba. The information he mentioned about children in special education schools and, in general, because unfortunately, you draw it from EUROSTAT is evidence of past years. That is, they are elements of 2016-2017. The official figures - I can give them to him now - are as follows: ninety-three thousand are children who have development and learning disorders and are supported in general with too many teachers, whose number I shall mention. Eleven thousand are the children in Special Education, as you know, with serious disabilities. At the same time, all this is served by sixteen thousand trainees specializing in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u86	Thank you. Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we would expect the Prime Minister as a Democratic Incorporation due to the initiative by Mrs Gennamas, who has given us a start on the relevant process which has reached the conclusion that most of us have adopted. However, there were no such sensitivities on the part of the Prime Minister. So for half a minute, I am entitled to a completely opposition argument. It says that with regard to the grant of children under the same income criteria, the families who benefited increased by 50 thousand. So there's poverty. On the same income criteria, a hundred and fifty thousand more needed. So there's poverty and that's a confession. Let's get to the point. In 1997, for the first time, I came in contact with this issue, when I represented the Greek Government, then as Secretary-General, in an international effort by the OECD in Warsaw, where twenty-one countries, the most important of the world, discussed the long-term policy problems - this is the title, 'long-term policy' - that is, unemployment, energy issues, demographic and sub-natality. That is how these are described in the OECD, in that they are problems for which they must be prepared to provide long-term solutions, because the problems are too great, the exact dimensions cannot always be known, and the solutions never know whether they are absolutely appropriate. From what we have heard from the political leaders' debate, from Mrs Gennimatas, Mr Mitsotakis and the Prime Minister, we can understand doubts whether the special measures are the solution if a more general policy is needed. These struggles are real. The doubts are real, because the problem is giving birth to them. So we need to see a combination of a policy that demonstrates that it has realised that there is a subject and specific manifestations of this policy that can give a solution. My own approaches were then recorded in an article, in my 'News' text, and I would ask you very much to submit it to the Minutes. Thank you. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes this article, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There have been policies in the years before the crisis. There have been policies and, indeed, serious policies relating to polytexts, policies concerning tritecuses. The crisis came, and that's where things started to change. Before, however, as the policies were developing, I remember a TV conflict, before I dealt with politics, the late Vasilis Rafaelides with the Dionysus Savvopoulou, where, talking about it, Rafaelides was very militant and the Dionysus Savvopoulos asked him a very simple question: "Mr. Rafaelides, told him then, have you guys?" Speaking of this issue before with our colleague Mr Carras said to me, "I have my duty to deal with the country: I have three children and five grandchildren." So I'm on the track and I'm entitled to have a point of view on this. Because I, too, as a third party, can say that I too have a little 'right', I dare to write words without hypocrisy, words that I believe are serious. So the crisis has created a repetition. How many and how many, how many, and how many, women and men, we have not heard them say "I want another child, I want to get married, but let go for now, I can't." Because the hierarchies are others, they are not as before and in the Western world these hierarchies have led to this phenomenon. The hierarchies of values and the economic crisis, which we experienced in Greece very hard, dried up the phenomenon and created the numbers that the intergroup has identified. Income limits, when I put on the tritecuses - and I, first of all, lost it on my own criteria - were called Herod. You've come, you've reduced your income criteria. Now you're rejoicing here - I was listening to Mr. Friend - about how much and how much you've given. In third countries, income criteria have been reduced. You found me, you reduced them. Here too, the income criteria must be increased, we all agree on this, and our third-party proposal to be seen as multitude is included in the proposal for a law that we have tabled. Why, Mrs Gennamas has not only taken the initiative, but our party has also made a proposal for a law in which the assimilation of tritecs and polytecs is one of the main topics. Sexual lawsuit. I heard SYRIZA's colleague mention it. In the few months that I was Minister of Education, I brought her to school through the Social School programme. You abolished it. Why did you abolish it? No one understands. And now that you understand what you should do, I would welcome if the current Minister for Education put this project back on track. More and more. Housing support, very important, is one of the first concerns of a couple before deciding on marriage and therefore children. The toddlers. We in the first years of SYRIZA governance have experienced the problems at daycare stations, the very big problems, and Mayor Simos Danielides, who has a great deal of experience in these matters on television. The inconvenience. We need to find ways to help. I'm hanging up with this. Our proposal for a law includes these measures, costly. However, it is a matter of, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, how much costly - I have no objection - policies that we can apply at the same time to how many issues. This is top, it has to lead. However, we need to realise that from what we are all saying, showing good intentions, some need to get into a series, perhaps not all of them together, but some need to get into a series and, in this regard, the policies of accuracy to what is important and not hypocrisy. In hypocrisy we have also been filled when we discuss demographics, with the enormous influence it has on all the problems of the country, let us be less hypocritical! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u88	Mr Vassilis Leventis, President of the Union of Centres, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u89	I should like to welcome the Minister, ladies and gentlemen, and, of course, the President, who is chairing the debate. Demographic is a very serious problem, and I'm sure all those who spoke said the finest words, willingly, all the parties, help, become a carpet to hit them. But why, when the parties rule, do nothing? How can it be? Everyone want to help, and when they manage power, make families stifle at the time they give birth to children. Because that's what's going on. Many parents are cursed when they did the most sacred thing to create families. That is what you have achieved, and I cannot understand that, that is, even in this area where it finds itself bright. The field of action really bright! Mr. Mitsotakis made very nice suggestions. Really if I didn't know who Mitsotakis was, I'd think I'd vote for him too. He's nice! He came here with suggestions, with very nice seats at all levels. But the bad thing about Mr. Mitsotakis is that we know who he is and that all of this has been written to him by some people, because he always has the word written. Let me tell you an incident with Mitsotakis in Epidaurus. We were at the Epidaurus at some event and someone else spoke, who didn't speak well. I don't know if it was SYRIZA's. It was one who was making a mistake, didn't read it well and I was next to Mitsotakis and I said "Look, they come to make a speech and they haven't read it." Mitsotakis tells me "I am one of those who can, Mr. Leventis, make a speech without reading". But when he got up on the Step to speak, one of his own went and gave him the floor. Even Mitsotakis couldn't speak. And if I'm not mistaken here, too, and Tsipras and Mitsotakis open the blind and move on to the mist. This once in the House was forbidden. And you know why it was forbidden? Because a industrialist could give you a bill, pay you and come here to transfer to the House, to the Chamber, to the opinions of the industrialist, and not to your opinions. You're not allowed to read. Now if Parliament's level finally became the kind that everyone reads, it's another case!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u90	And now it's forbidden.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u91	Why were you forbidden to read? Because many Members of Parliament in money took the talk from industrialists. That's why he was banned. It wasn't forbidden at random. We are now returning to the issue of demographics. All perfect. All of us feed the children with jams in schools, all of us take the kids without tickets to school, to universities enter those who are third-party, and not only the multitude, preferably molecules. Everyone recommends nice things! But why don't they? Because there's no money. By putting in universities kids who are three-tier kids, you add thousands of kids. These thousands of kids get in without tests preferably will be a burden on universities, won't they? Mr Mitsotakis came and proposed private universities and when I told him he wanted 15 000 euros a year, he said, "but they also have 10% scholarships". In other words, the poor Greek in Grevenna, Crete, will wait for the individual who has the enthusiasm to grant a scholarship to the child. If he doesn't grant a scholarship, he'll be left with a glimpse. This is provided for in the New Democracy programme. And they say, "But anyway, they go abroad." It's not true. The kids are fighting to get here. They're fighting the kids. Families are fighting. If you have a kid abroad, you want 2,000 euros a month at least. It says very simply that everyone here in this Chamber, without looking at the suitcases of the poor. We need to build a strong economy, we need to build a state. Perhaps you did not understand in this Chamber when I entered in 2015 and I spoke about the universal government and you ironed some people because I did. I said this proposal because wherever I talked about investment, I was told "with a hundred and fifty two Members I am not going there, two crazy people going away, the government falling and losing my money". I say the same thing in the New Democracy that wants to make a government with Mrs. Gennamas. Getting out of here. I have no objection to it, but to this government how many will be? One hundred and fifty-two, one hundred fifty-three. Who's bringing his money here? So we'll have some who'll be abducting again, as SYRIZA is struggling today. This is how the New Democracy will go and whether it will bring investment. It will take time, it will squeeze the world, it will reduce pensions and wages, it will impose taxes, time will go on and the country will sink further into the crisis. Perhaps we are not spared the full bankruptcy, which we have now escaped through creditors' instalments. You guys in SYRIZA are in a hurry to get into the channels and say that - the day before yesterday, I was listening to Mr. Dritsa - he passed the memorandum, finished the memorandum. He was fighting to convince himself, telling a channel that we've at least saved bankruptcy. What bankruptcy did we get? So we're out of line? Do you have that view? For ninety-nine years, unless we pay the minimum debt, the country is moving on to a credit event. Or haven't you figured it out? For ninety-nine years! Have you put everything in the superstition and dare and say we're done with the memoirs? And it is - it says - the first budget on the Greek side. Only it had to be approved and in every detail the slightest unforeseen point has to be adopted. That's a nice mortar you've done. Unless you are deceiving yourself, if you are speaking to each other and say that you are done with the memorials and believe it. If you have such a delusion. The economy needs to be built. The economy will finance the social aspect of the state. To get out of the New Democracy or SYRIZA and to say "free pool", free of charge, tickets, transportation, books, everything, these are kind. Keep them kind. A good one, do it. Take the party out of the state. Remove this attitude from the state. This mentality is destroying the state, it's mortgageing it. This situation inactivates the state. Do it, as soon as you have a good thing to do. Even a good one. The other things you say you did, leave them, you didn't do anything. If you're bragging about everything you've done, you've done nothing, gentlemen. Proof that wherever you're surrounded, I think people welcome you with applause, government, don't they? He welcomes you "foot-on" everywhere you go! How can you benefit the people in Prespes, benefit Greece on all issues, and the world is opposed? When you did, for example, the Prespes, to say a little bit about it, did you not know that the entire Greek people were against it? And the strangers knew it. Didn't the strangers know that he was going to the government to sign something that the Greek people don't want? So the House also knew that it was acting and creating contrary to the people and that foreigners were putting a government here in Athens to do contrary to the will of the people. But the crime, and they think it's over now. It's not over! When something is pending in the conscience of the people, it does not end. It doesn't end as you think it is. If you had taken the approval of the Board of Chiefs, if you had taken the approval of a referendum, you would have had your head up. But because you knew you couldn't take these, you acted conspiracyly. That's what you did and you'll find it on your way. Every Member who voted will find what was done in this Chamber on his way. I'm coming back, because I don't want them telling me I'm all about Macedonia and, to tell you the truth, I'm going to tell you something. I spoke to Thessaloniki days ago, and I saw such a marble! Do you understand what you've done? Families are savage. Do you think by giving a couple of showers and giving a lot of gifts, you'll forget that thing you did? Really, do you have that illusion? I'm sorry about Tsipras if he thinks by changing agendas, bringing bills and doing various things we'll forget what happened in the Prespes. If you believe this thing, if you hope that thing, I'm starting to doubt someone's intelligence. Because I see the only ones who praise you for what happened, they're NATO, the strangers. Did a Greek praise you for what you did? Did a Greek praise you for the Prespes?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u92	Merjos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u93	The only ones who praised you are NATO, the Americans. They praised you for wanting to do their job. They praised you, ladies and gentlemen. What Greek praised you to go out and say "the solution that was given"? And I am very sorry for the new Minister of Defence. I'll have a word. He was the Chief of HNDGS next door to a minister who said he was opposed, but he basically took back to the end, to commit the crime, Mr. Kammens. Is it nice that you swore Chief of HNDD to someone next day, did you vote for the Prespes? The Chief of the Armed Forces is also among those who approved the Prespecies. You tried to break through the Army. The Army was high in the consciousness of the world as a guarantee. I'm sorry about this, because Mr. Apostolakis had an appreciation. He shouldn't have accepted the Department of Defense, in my view, especially when he spent a 24 hours ago, he had to come here and talk and say what nice Prespes are. This thing stayed in history. He stayed in history what Mr. Tsipras did. He tried to humiliate the honour and dignity of the Armed Forces, but they are not humiliated, because they remain in the consciousness of every uniform that Mr Apostolakis has oathed and within him, I am sure he has a remorse of conscience about what he has done, that he has undertaken to become Minister in a government that has signed the Ambassadors within two 24 hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u94	Do you have anything to add to the subject, for the demographics, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u95	You've said it all. The Syrians and the neo-democrats have given everything to the demographics. I can't give anything more, only to say that, as in all things, you're mocking the world, you're mocking it in it too. I, where I turn around and watch the channels, put a parrot right and a parrot symphony. I went to two channels and had a fight because they said to invite me and interview me in the Centro Association and I see a lady of the New Democracy and a Mr of SYRIZA. I say, what do they want here? They started asking me. I say, what do these gentlemen want? You have set up a dirt-ass bishop and you've put him up on all channels, and you think people chew on spoon, that you're going to raise the percentages of New Democracy and SYRIZA in this way, triggering fanaticism. That's your plan. Nor will you succeed in that, because when the people arrived at PASOK and New Democracy, they had passed the 'Rubicon', they understood that bipartisanism was destroying the country. He had it figured out. Now you're struggling to turn him back, but the world has a wisdom, it doesn't turn like pendulums where you want to, it understands in the channels what toys are being set up. You're here to press the complexion and along with the complex you're trying to perpetuate your presence in politics. Along with the complication, when you came to step on it! It is up to you to remain large parties. But do you know what's gonna happen to you in the end? Where you expect you to be two powerful parties, returning to the old "Panathenaikos - Olympiacos" or "PASOK - New Democracy", you will both suffer: Mitsotakis will suffer Patatrak and what he says about the five-party Parliament is in his imagination at night, uncovered when he sleeps and when he makes polls as he wants, and you Syrians have begun and said you will win. Hey, this is a more ill case than Mitsotakis, if you really think you're gonna win! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u96	We too, Mr President. Mr. Antoniou from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u97	Let me reintroduce the conversation, ladies and gentlemen, in the demographics. I shall be very brief, because after the political leaders talking to a Member of Parliament, he is also a little greedy, since the debate has been exhausted. As a member of the committee I would like to say that I am very pleased with the way the committee worked, from how the committee came to this conclusion and we have had a very good debate with what is best valued in Greek society and scientifically, but also from the point of view of trade union representation and bodies involved in the matter. The Members of Parliament' s committee have therefore shown a similar positive attitude, behaviour, reflection and expression of all aspects of the matter, without ordinary prerogatives and standardisation. This is reflected in the joint conclusion we have reached, with the exception of the JRC and the Golden Dawn. I would like to credit this to the members of the committee and the President of the Commission, Mrs Anagnostopoulos, and I believe that it is a first success in dealing with a very serious issue in the long term, such as demographics, which is currently at the heart of reflection and public debate at a pan-European level. Of course, the problem in some countries, particularly in the south, but also in our country, takes explosive proportions, as demographic contraction and net population decline undermine the country's future course in all respects, economic, social and also, undermine the prospect of future potential development in the country if this trend is not reversed and continues to move downwards. The dilemmas we had in committee were mainly in terms of allowances, tax exemptions or other, especially where our attention should be directed and where the incentives should be directed. Should the motives be directed towards the multitude and third families exclusively or should we start from families who have no children and are thinking about having one to two children? Because statistics show that families who are threeteen and tents are about 10%. Are we going to continue the policy of strengthening tritecs and polytecs exclusively? I am not saying that these families should not be strengthened and are also reinforced by the new regulation made by the Minister, Mrs Fotou, as 92% of the three and tenacious families saw increases and only a small part saw reductions. I hope that will be settled soon too. But, mostly, the families who had one and two children saw very large increases. I would like to come back a little while ago and see what was applied by the previous finding, and if this 1993 finding helped to halt the downward trend of declining populations. I'll read something characteristic from page 41 of the findings. It says the conclusion of the 1993 intergroup on demographics: 'To amend the law currently in force for the adoption of a child, because it is complex and bureaucratic, and that there are institutions with many children who have been abandoned and the procedures to prevent adoption'. This finding is made in '93. From 1993 until today, the government that I have had the honour of representing in Parliament has resolved this matter a while ago. We have established short-term procedures, which may reach a maximum of ten months, one year, from where to adopt a child, he wanted more than five and six years. Finally, I will not go into the policy measures adopted by the conclusion. I think it is a set of proposals and an important policy tool, as it describes in detail both the current situation, the trends that are shaping, and all factors affecting population size, such as fertility, mortality, migratory flows. I would just like to note something we all have to agree on and the current government must take it seriously. It is necessary to extend the maternity protection regime and to categories of workers who are not currently covered. And there are no categories of workers such as those under fixed-term contracts who do not have the right to a pregnancy, maternity, or sick leave. I had a meeting recently with a school cleaners union that said to me: "Mr. Memorial, we are on the dark side of the moon. We have neither the right to become pregnant, nor to have children, nor to take a day's sick leave." And in this regime there are too many categories of workers, which we need to see. Because this principle of non-discrimination must finally apply it in our country. We have several convictions from the European Court of Human Rights. I think we owe it to this world, which must also have rights and give birth to and plan for its future. I hope these findings will be implemented and the institutions that we have anticipated in the conclusion to work effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, too. Mr Dimitrios Emmanoulidis, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will approach the subject of demographics, by making use of images, as usual, from the media, in the days of the upcoming three-day holiday on Monday, when the urban families turn to see their own people, third-age people, in the forgotten villages of mountainous Greece and island remote Greece. It's the days that in these regions it really blossoms back on the smile of the older population, because it sees grandchildren refilling the squares of municipal schools that are closed. I think that this picture illustrates to some extent the problem experienced by our country, as regards the issue of fertility, in demographics. The demographic problem is perhaps the most serious social problem for our country. The scientists invited by the committee have presented us with a very detailed scientific report which defines the problem in its right dimensions. So it offers us a new basis for discussion in relation to the previous report of 1993, since it has already been in the fourth century, with the result that the social, economic and political conditions have been dramatically differentiated. The causes of the explosion of the demographic problem in our country must be looked into in the social, economic and political spheres, in fact, I would add to the cultural sphere. Ladies and gentlemen, I would say that the cause of this reduction lies in changing the cultural model of Greek society. More specifically, the participation of women in the labour market, over the years post-war years, has created de facto new data that have worked out deterrently, since the occupational career has become a priority. In fact, the fact that childbirth was not supported by the state with the necessary relief in everyday life social measures, such as the operation of day-to-day nurseries, parental leave, schools with the provision of multi-skilled education, has actually acted dissuasively in the direction of childbirth. The problem was also raised by the perception that parents realized that their primary duty was to ensure the child’s future financial security, thereby sacrificing childbirth, the gift of life, on the altar of the economic future of their child. This diffusion acquires explosive proportions in the years of the Memorandum cheques. Youth unemployment and leaving abroad to find work has been the negative catalyst in increasing this problem. The births have declined even further, while the flight of young people to the critical age of twenty-five to thirty-five years is an additional serious obstacle to the country's growth potential. We are now at a point where we must act as a state with effectiveness in tackling this problem. If not all of us are aware of the need for a population oxygenification of society, we will not find a solution. In no case can they create the framework necessary to resolve the problem. Demographic is not a problem that the Greeks face in their daily lives, which is why he cannot understand his dimension as a national, as it has to deal with other problems that persecute him every day. I believe that any pathogens are created due to the fragmented effort and focused interest. Ladies and gentlemen, we are living in a society that has not been able to give structured and integrated social support programmes, similar to the Scandinavian countries and France, and on the other hand, it has not left society completely unprotected, having some social supportive family programmes. But this incomplete and fragmentary is what blurs the water. The 1993 conclusion contained elements which could be a compass to deal with the problem. Unfortunately, it has not been implemented either at its core or in its implications, so we are today at the same point. We are precisely in this appalling sign of a nationally threatened tragedy. Today we have to use all the experience of scientists dealing with this problem, but above all we have to see how we will create a cultural model where joy, voice, the child crying will have a place in our daily lives and we will not become the echo of an ageing depressing society. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, if you're kind. In particular, we should focus on efforts to facilitate couples who wish to have children so that, at least in the first phase, at least, the downward trends in childbirth can be halted. Strengthening and extending the measures to stop young people leaving abroad, following on from what has already been done during our governance period, is also necessary. To confuse the substance with one phrase, I will say that the variable 'population' should be included in all the individual political initiatives and the change in the negative demographic trends should be a new national objective. New government structures that will coordinate this effort are considered necessary. Let us not forget, too, that our country was at the centre of population movements and while our population was falling, more than a million people went through this place. To say this more clearly, migration to Greece was one of the three key demographic components that have a decisive impact on population development. As the discovery of scientists clearly shows, foreigners' contribution to the growth of our population over the period 1-1 1991 to 31-12-2000 was decisive. The natural balance of this decade was positive. And this is because of the admission of people from other countries. Without them, the population of Greece today would not be greater than that of 1990, while the natural balance between births and deaths would be three times more negative. Ladies and gentlemen, in closing, I would say that there have been both the functioning of the committee and the conclusion of the scientific report, valid statements on the printing and dealing with the problem. It is interesting that the proposals which have been heard should be taken into account, with their ears openly and openly looking at them, especially the minds, not only the government, but also society. This is ultimately a social problem and the need to resolve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, nineteen students and students and three educational attendants from the University School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] MEP George Mavrotas requests permission from a short-day absence abroad from 12 March to 14 March 2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u101	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Now Mr. Nicholas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u102	You will allow me to congratulate my fellow Members, by addressing the President of the Commission, Mrs Sis Anagnostopoulos, because there has indeed been a great deal of work, for which I do not know whether the Greek citizen has been informed, who is certainly interested in the problem, is surely concerned, he knows it, he knows it. I fear, however, that even today when this debate is taking place, if we could ask how many people are following this debate - partly, not all - we would be disappointed. However, is the work done by the overwhelming majority accepted by the political forces enough? It was heard by previous speakers that the 1993 outcome - and I was present, since, as you know, I have been a Member since 1989 - was unanimous. It was unanimous and, however, a few things were done. It was unanimous, but the situation got worse. That, you know, had fewer fluorescents and more specific, practical measures. After all, then the issues were raised, with less sauce and said, "Let's do this...", "Let's appoint...", "To take so much". He had much more specific measures. Sometimes they paid off. It was a very characteristic case, when Costas Karamanlis, as Prime Minister, said: "Whoever makes a fourth child and is a teacher, is appointed". And I am sure you have seen the Members who were in committee who have been spectacularly able to get the results over time. The same happened when the late Christodoulous said that in Thrace they would receive an allowance given by the Church from her own money. There was an increase there, too. But what is it that has changed so much that the previous colleague and I, at least, have told me completely? What is the cultural, as you said, a worthwhile system that allowed my mother and the vast majority of mothers, while poor, to have many children? I was born in a multitude family, very poor. I was a neighbour of Ms. Anagnostopoulos there in the refugee and the Holy Trinity. And yet we were very happy. I blessed with my wife to have four children, too, and to be full. And I saw how important my kids were to be a company. And one of the four children being in the range of autism and, of course, being in our home. And again, I saw how important this was. I say this before I tell you a few, few more thoughts, because it is a matter that we need to see again. We have to look at it and respond to these many 'why' things. and say that in the end, yes, childbirth - to use the same expression you said - is a great blessing, it is great joy, it is great luck for those who have children and for the children who come. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that, and we all say that Greece is getting older and getting smaller. Everyone, but everyone admits it. The demographic population is the largest bomb for the country that directly threatens its social and economic stability in the years to come, possibly even its existence. There is no state or nation that has signed a contract with history, that there will be if it wants to kill itself. The Christian Democratic Party of Greece has been beating the risk bell for years, stressing that the risk is no longer before the gates, but is within the walls. All the studies prove it - you have referred to many of them, and that is how it is - and the cold numbers show it. We had eighty-eighty thousand five hundred and fifty-three births in 2017, in the hundreds of twenty-four thousand five hundred one deaths. However, a recent survey of "internationality" photographs Greece less than two million in thirty years, and today one out of three is over sixty-five years. The main features of Greece today, according to the same investigation, are as follows: Families become smaller. A few couples live together and more women decide not to have any children at all than before. The average age of women when they have their first child increases, while the average age of the first marriage is increased. Marriage decreases and divorces increase. In the midst of the crisis, increasing unemployment and economic uncertainty have led couples to delay having their first child, to delay having a second or a third child. The search and use of employment opportunities for both sexes has not been accompanied by the development of adequate benefits, as well as social state structures and services to support the family. The result is that Greek women have very few children. If this situation continues, and Greece of 2050 is about two million smaller, then the economically active population will fall respectively, while pensioners will be more than employees. This means that insurance is blown into the air, the economy is blown into the air, the Greek society is blown into the air. So we do not need to get too tired of numbers and statistics. We all know them, we've seen them, and we understand them. The question is how many and how many of us are creeping around with these statistics. Because if we are creeping and realizing the impact on the country, then we should have changed a lot already. And not only have we not made those big decisions on the important areas and ruptures, but rather we are confined to talking about it. There's no more time, though. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greeks and Greeks expect us to take immediate action and act. The issue, of course, is not a classic and ideological one. It is a national issue and, as such, we must all deal with it together and look for the best possible solutions. Even the OECD prefers to be best practices - listen to some features - to tackle demographic poverty reduction and income support, direct compensation for the economic costs of children, promotion of employment especially for women, greater gender equality, support and development for early childhood, increased birth. "Generalities" many will say and are right. Besides, there are only a few general guidelines and nothing more. So let's talk about it simpler. Let us translate these axes into our own needs and capabilities. I maintain the view that the policy of the current Greek state must be turned into two main directions: the first concerns supporting family income and the second concerns a major tax change so that children can no longer be regarded as presumptions and families can enjoy tax relief depending on the number of their children. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Give me your tolerance for a minute. After all, other interventions required are to strengthen the institutional framework in order to guarantee the working future of every woman who wants to become a mother, health and education reforms, so as to increase public care at the high cost of child care and upbringing, adjust the financial benefits and benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, the future is designed or subordinated. The fact that we all at last recognise the problem of demographics is an optimist ray, since once when we heard alarms, we were being called obsessive or conservative. However, we must not allow our children to suffer such a pitiful future and live in a shrinked and weak country even at geostrategic level. "The resolution of the demographic may be the best solution," former President of the European Parliament said during his visit to Greece. So I wonder why what a Poles see is not seen by us, but by us, because we do not move directly. The family, as an institution of unique value for the Greek society, was the one that helped our people with the hard times of the crisis. The family has helped the state, and now the state must help the family. Otherwise, in a few years' time, some people will be here and their indictment will be terrible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much. The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn Mr Ilias Panagiotaros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, Mr Nicolopoulos, there was work done on this committee on demographics. More young people have left abroad, fewer births in our home country, more taxation and evidence to those who have children, further flooded our homeland by illegal immigrants - immigrants are told to them by the ladies and gentlemen of the government - while a large number of benefits were granted for the children of illegal immigrants rather than the Greeks. Following the philosophical debate so far on the major national problem of fertility in our country, which has led the Greek nation to a demographic collapse, in a genocide of military wars, which has no end, I find the following sad outcome: Speaking first of all, the exclusive leaders of the modern genocide of the Greek people about how to solve demographics is at least a challenge and irony. And not only are we talking about the current government, but also about the previous ones, who have been ruling this place for about forty years and have led the country and the Greeks to this without turning back black future. So speaking of demographically all children’s presumptions of taxation, it is more ironic and excitement. Speaking of demographics, those who have destroyed families financially, who are no longer able to support their existing children, let alone make families and make children new couples, what is left in our homeland, is ironic. Speaking of demographics, those who chased the multitude and the third parties and who constantly cut them off and, on the contrary, added taxes, are ironic. It is ironic that those who promote LGBT communities, gay couples and ironic - not to say better they hate - the normal institution of the family. And if you look at Europe's leadership at all levels, you see and understand why the institution of the family and demographics - not only in Greece, but throughout Europe - have it in the words, perhaps, at some parts of their agenda, but in practice they have written it in the oldest parts of their shoes. Speaking of the demographic problem, those who brought millions of illegal immigrants to our home country, from all other religions, with a different culture and who, of course, never speak of those who support them for the disgrace they have on their children as a result of culture, is a provocative one, it is ironic. Of course, we have heard mainly from the SYRIZA speakers that this invasion helps with the demographic recovery of our country. That is something we will refer to a little below. Talking about demographics is ironic and tragic. Speaking of those who gave priority to the children of migrants, as you want to say, whether in nursing stations or in maternity facilities and elsewhere, at the expense of the children of the Greeks, is challenging. To be told by those who have expelled the cost of a birth in thousands of euros - because even if anyone wants to go to a public maternity service, it is usually a reservoir from foreigners - and the cost of all kinds of consumables to raise their children, about how to correct demographics, is a challenge. All of these do not have the right to speak or even speak, probably they do not take too seriously into account them. The main problem, which you have, is that most of you literally hate the institution of the family and do everything you can to dismantle it, humiliate it, make it to be banal, not something nice and right. I would say that you hate the Greek family, because the love you show for the families of foreigners who enter our country is unprecedented. You are the ones - as we have said - who say that the presence of immigrants, as you say - illegal immigrants, we say - has contributed to the demographic breath of the population. What population? What's the population? Something general and vague? What's our country? What is Greece? Something general and vague? No, of course not. And what does the Constitution say? For we have heard from previous speakers and from the Prime Minister speaking various examples. No, the Constitution speaks of the Greek nation and we have a sacred obligation to move in this direction. And of course, you are also talking about the welfare state, this social state that everyone knows that the vast majority of foreigners and Roma benefit from it. Complaints are too many, but it's a burning matter and you don't dare touch it. And, of course, it's at the expense of the Greeks, who as usual don't get anything at all. As for the New Democracy of Mitsotakis, in the last few days it has been repeated - we do not know if it is intended to be corrected, although it does not want to be corrected by communication - that once things come, they will grant the birth of every child in our home country with EUR 2 000. So generally and vaguely? Not the Greek girls? Whoever comes into our country, Mr. Mitsotakis? Very well, thank you for the points you give us for the forthcoming elections! Is that how you're gonna solve the demographic? Things are really bad. And in order to reverse this negative birth rate in a positive way, there must be a number of specific things which, unfortunately, many of those who belong to the right - within many introductorys - are afraid and fooled, not to say extremes, not to tell them fascists, not to tell them backwards. There should be tax relief of all kinds for children, for couples who have children. There should be a abolition of all the Memorandum Laws and Provisions according to which the child is considered to be a presumption and the family should be taxed on the basis of these presumptions. There must be a one-off reimbursement of financial assistance to every new Greek child born, which will increase step up for the second child, for the third child coke. The benefits of laundry should be started by the third child and increased for each additional child. This scourge of abortion must be banned and, at the same time, there must be a briefing of young children, girls, of the harm they do to their own bodies. They are not released when they have the right to kill a soul within them. There has to be a priority, with rich molecules, of polytexts, as well as of their children, for recruitment and other benefits to the public and not just to the public. And you must finally, because you all tax everyone and everything in this country, there must be a reversal of taxation for all those who do not want to have families. And when you're married, you have a child, you have to automatically have tax exemptions and subsidies. And because there are some of our fellow citizens who are unable to childbirth, there should be a simplification of the procedures for adopting one or more children, which is considered to be childbirth and who will receive all the benefits of childbirth. Of course, all these benefits and other things should relate to Greeks in the race. The coexistence pact - of course, only we will do so - should be abolished. The assumption by homosexual couples should be abolished. All this leads to a society which does not help childbirth. And, of course, there should be priority for Greeks in kindergartens, kindergartens, maternity care and elsewhere. And because there are also self-government elections coming and the Greek Dawn for Attica comes down and I happen to be the candidate for the district, and we say and mention in our programme - and explain how this is done - that every Greek bird in the Attica region, every new Greek bird, will be subsidized with a respected amount of money, which is costly and reasonable. Because, ladies and gentlemen, so many years you have taxed the Greek and his children and you have led all Greeks to not being in the mood and not even marrying - not to have families and children - you have driven hundreds of thousands of Greeks abroad, who have now "flyed" and are usually those Greeks who are in productive age and childbearing age. Because children are a blessing of God and not a presumption for taxation. You, with the illegal immigrants and the LGBTKI, are the ones with the Greeks and the Greeks! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u105	Mrs Triantafel has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Children are indeed the beauty of this world, and under no circumstances will we receive lessons from puncturists, who have betrayed the country many times, such as - let us say - Cyprus. We will not, therefore, receive lessons for either family or country under any circumstances! And they must be well aware that also women cannot be ignored. The right to self-determination is unnegotiable and equivalent to the right to childbirth and parenthood. So I think the time really has come, because of the issue that is too big, too serious, it has social and national dimensions, to discuss, as it fits into this issue. And I think that the creation of the intergroup itself was quite right, following the proposal by Mrs Gennamas. Today, but also throughout the committee meetings, arguments and important proposals have been heard by the majority, I would say, of the parties. And I think we should all look at them and see how we can deal with this. It is assumed that this is the most important problem in our country, but also in the European Union, or at least a large part of it. Mostly in southern Europe there is this issue. South Europe is affected. And I would say that bright examples, as mentioned above, are France and the Scandinavian countries. It is also timely inability to cope with it. Everyone has said that since the 1980s this problem has been intensified, despite the measures that have been admittedly taken. And, indeed, we did not come here today to bid for who took most of the positive measures. However, the fact is that in the Memorandum years there has been a worrying decline in births, a consolidation of the phenomenon of Brain drain and in the years of the crisis more than four thousand young people, the most dynamic, our most educated workforce has left for abroad. For the first time post-war, we have indeed a population decline and Greece has the second worst demographic profile throughout the European Union. The situation is certainly worrying and it undoubtedly has not only social aspects, as I have said, but also national dimensions. A number of times have been reported by Turkey. And, of course, we have to say here that it is of great importance to the size and the quality of the information. The average age in Turkey is very low, while, on the other hand, there is an ageing population of the Greek population. It is precisely because the problem is so big and with national dimensions, there are no easy solutions and there is no reason for micro-policy. Political responses and long-term planning are needed. The objective and objectives of demographic policy must be defined and, in view of the general political and social objectives, with the visions of the future for our country, and even at this time, when the memorandum ended, and we are moving towards a gradual reorganisation of all infrastructures, to a gradual reorganisation of development, the development structures of our country, to a development reorganisation of our production. There was a thorough list of the causes of the demographic problem. And it's not just economical, it's just non-existence of a social state. It is anguish and therefore the care for professional rehabilitation and, of course, the acquisition of formal education qualifications, which keep women away from childbirth. In other words, there are social and cultural factors. It is the stereotype change and the desperate effort of young people - especially women - to harmonise, balance professional and family life. Above all, however, it is the pattern of development that has been followed, the policies of austerity. Conclusions: Firstly, demographic is an unresolved issue, precisely because it is complex, because it is interconnectable and interdependent and requires political solutions in a long-term and holistic manner. Secondly, it is necessary to implement policies on harmonisation, to reconcile work and care for family and working life, policies on maternity in all its forms, family policies, equality policies, employment policies, policies on the child, that is, policies to strengthen the social state and, indeed, not horizontal, despite the emphasis to be placed on vulnerable groups, policies to strengthen the elderly. So how do we proceed? There are samples of writing from this government and what are the different elements? The holistic plan focuses on improving the working environment by improving working conditions by reducing unemployment by about nine units and creating new jobs, by reintroducing collective negotiations, by abolishing the underpaid wage, by increasing the minimum wage. Stability in life is also achieved through labour stability. However, a series of other positive measures have been taken for the child, such as two-year compulsory pre-school education, reduction of child poverty, increasing family allowances. The first and second children were subsidized and under no circumstances did they reduce their allowances to three-tiers and tenants. There is barely an increase of more than 0.5%. I saw them get more money, both the multitudes and the third parties. There is also an increase in funding for children to enter nurseries, vouchers for both unemployed women and not only workers, draft legislation on adoptions, which means transparency, as well as transparency in the welfare state, accommodation allowance, rental allowance, school meals and other legislative measures. I do not have the time, but I would say that these measures, which have been legislated, exist and are found to improve the lives of many young people. Is that enough? Oh, no. It takes a lot more. I think, however, that a central design has something to do with the memorial landscape itself. In the memorial orientation of the country, it really needs a progressive programme that emphasises demographic policy. I think we have a debt to our children and to the next generations, to implement it. It can't be from one day to the next. I think, however, that we have given samples of writing, I think that there is no need for the auction, and I think the problem is here. Therefore, it needs substantial cooperation and ideas that can day after day make the lives of young people, children and the whole of Greek society better.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u107	The Minister, Mrs Fotou, has the floor. Mrs. Fotio, is it 20 minutes enough?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u108	I hope so. Mr President, I too should like to congratulate the Parliament's intergroup on the excellent work it has done. This is a project which has a scientific and methodological analysis of the problem on the one hand and, on the other hand, results in political directions, in the fields of intervention, etc. This is not a list, as we are accustomed to being these committees and the conclusions they draw, as was the corresponding conclusion of 1992. And, of course, I am in the excellent position of agreeing with the findings, of agreeing with all the priorities and objectives set and, at the same time, of feeling fair, because I have been supporting them for four years on the one hand and on the other, because precisely since October 2017, I have set out these positions in the intergroup on demographics. In the report, it says that voluntary policies are not enough. Of course, we do. A change in the prognostic model is required. I'll show you exactly what we're talking about. The report says that there was not only any active demographic policy, but neither was there an effective monitoring, evaluation, etc. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Listen, I understand that at this point Census makes its criticism, even though it does not want to confess. He says there was no active demographic policy. So we haven't really done anything. We have decided - and I promised it again in October 2017 - that we will build a mechanism for monitoring, controlling, evaluating and coordinating the demographic problem in the Ministry of Labour and that is how we will monitor all demographic developments. We will table the proposal, because I imagine you will have to vote for it in the next few weeks. Thirdly, the report says that measures should focus on the child and the family, regardless of the form of the family. We prepared in 2018 and updated at the meeting of the KYSKOPOP in November 2018, the National Action Plan for the Rights of the Child - it is a large volume, I have it in front of me, will be known very soon - for the period 2018-2021. The Ministers for Justice, Labour, Health, Education, Civil Protection, Migration Policy, Home Affairs, Foreign Affairs and Maritime Affairs have worked together, because we believe that without this synergy you cannot end up with a specific action plan for the coming years. What's our vision? Our vision is an inclusive society for all children, without discrimination. Children are the future of society. Their social origin must not determine their future. Investment in children means investment in the future. That is why we are going to present to the President of Parliament in the next few weeks - and I thank him for being here already - the National Action Plan for the Rights of the Child. Fourthly, the committee on page 85 concludes that interventions should focus on migration and fertility, with the repatriation of part of the new Greeks and the reception of foreign immigrants, while on fertility it puts the 2 norm on the 2, instead of 1.35 which is now in our country. It was 1.3 in 2014. Today's a little up to 1.35. Anyway. I'm not going to go too far into immigration, because I think the Prime Minister covered it. I will say, however, and I will remind you of the OAED's special programmes for the repatriation of young people. Recruitment of thousands of young scientists to support the public sector in particular - in total we spent in these four years, from 2015 to 2015, EUR 1.1 billion - policies to attract young people to work on the other hand to the country's research structures and separate programmes in higher education. We are subsidising youth entrepreneurship, start-ups and social enterprises. It was said here today that, obviously, we do not want children to go abroad to study because they do not enter Greece. We have also heard this category here today, that we are sending the children abroad to study. That's false. You know very well that every year we increase the number of importers. Children want to study at Greek universities, public, free of charge. No child wants to go abroad and his family wants to send it. When we manage to absorb all children from public higher education, I think the problem, which is an argument in favour of private universities, will be very reduced until it is minimised. From there, those who want postgraduate or anything else to go outside, the offspring of the good families who do not make them the Greek university, are all free in that state to do so. Fifthly, the report sets out a number of conditions for dealing with demographics, and I think that is the great benefit of the report. I am sorry that it has not been understood, for example, by the Communist Party, because the report says that there must be three courses of action to tackle the demographic problem. One is social policies, the other is economic policies, the third is labour policies, mainly child policies and policies that concern children and the family. I won't dwell on what's going on in the economic field. The Prime Minister said so, and I believe that all citizens understand that this country is moving forward, despite disaster and conspiracy. However, I would like to focus a little on the government's development policy. It has also been said by the Prime Minister that it is unfortunately not about prosperity - well-being in numbers - that growth - with birth rate and has been clearly said, saying concrete elements from the past, saying what happened in the times of prosperity. Why then was the problem not dealt with, but continued to be the path downhill? Because we believe that there is exactly a different model that has been followed to date, that is, the economy can grow, but the social state does not grow. This duplicate which has been in Greece all these years, is what is mainly responsible for the fact that there has been no policy to halt the great problem of demographics. We not only believe that growth cannot be achieved - it cannot be accepted for us, it is not acceptable - if it is not fair growth, that is, development with social justice, but also based all on development policy for the next four years in this thought. So what we sent to the European Union, coming out of the memoranda and approved, is exactly a work-based development programme. This is the first time that this country has been building, planning its development policy geared to work. What do you mean, work? It is precisely collective bargaining that means minimum wages, that of defending the workplace on the one hand, on the other, on the other, a fair and fair public insurance system, on the other, on the one hand, and on the other, on the other, welfare, which is a provision that is horizontally interested in the population and not just in the poor and vulnerable. This tripartite, we believe, can be a guarantee for the demographic problem, otherwise we do not think there are any possibilities to change this situation. I said at the outset that I agree with the report that subsidised policies are not enough and I quickly say that we are being indicted for subsidised policies. I think I'll prove to you very quickly that there's no such thing. But what does she need today? It needs a change in the prognostic model. At least they stood at it today. I'd like to say that a little more. There are, it says the report - and I would very much like everyone to understand it, and in particular the New Democracy and the Change Movement - four models, just as much as they describe them. Our country belongs to the pro-active model of the countries of the South. What does he mean by that? Who are the countries? It is Spain, Portugal, Italy, Cyprus and Greece. These countries have many different things - budgets and so on. - but they also have a common, a pro-innovative model. This produces great inequalities, great poverty rates, high rates of child poverty, and even high unemployment rates in the years of prosperity. It seems to me that this is going through abundant possibilities for the Civic Opposition. It seems to me that not only does it not want to report or think about this thing, but it is obvious that it wants to continue this model. And I will say it in relation to the proposals I have heard today from the New Democracy. What's wrong with that model? There's low welfare budgets. In other words, as a percentage of GDP, all four - five countries, very different speeds, have all low welfare budgets. Secondly, it has a great deal of unemployment, child poverty and poverty. To say here features that in Greece during the years of prosperity child poverty was 23%. I don't know if you understand. In other words, at the time of the great shrouds, the Olympic Games, the great growth, how was it possible more than one in four children to be poor? How is that possible? That is exactly what the social state did. Third point: Client system with complexity and corruption. We've lived this on our side since the first day we came, because you can't want to make a prose policy, be a state and have fifty-four employees who are in welfare. Is it ever possible to make a welfare policy state with fifty-four employees? So you understand that this had been assigned elsewhere. All these years the welfare history has been a pretext. There was no welfare state. That was elsewhere assigned. He was in mayor's dealings here elected MPs - I mean SYRIZA, not to say anyone else - anyone you want but the state. The state not only controlled nothing, but it had all written 789 million and had fifty-four employees to implement it. If that's possible! He didn't have surveillance, he didn't have anything. And finally, only benefits for vulnerable people, i.e. for the poor, the disabled, the homeless, etc. Now, listen, there's a big problem here. We've heard it from Mr. Mitsotakis and the conference, but also the conference he did, if I'm not mistaken, to Volos. I've got the minutes and I'll testify. What does Mr. Mitsotakis say there? It says that if we manage to achieve the smallest surpluses, if we succeed in agreeing that the European Union should drop the primary surpluses, then we have room for doing so on social policy, and then it says precisely that we should give eight hundred thousand people a billion. That is to say, all that he has been saying over the entire period, that is to say, that he will succeed in reducing the primary surpluses. It is the logic that, if I have a few more money, I give them to the poor - that was the logic in the Greek state to date and for the vulnerable - and I give them in the form of charity, without a transparent way, without having any systems with which everyone can control where the money is going. If I don't, unfortunately, because my problem is growth, Mr. Mitsotakis says. Development, however, ultimately means how you redistribute this wealth produced by the workers, how you return it to society. That is why we believe that there are two policies conflicting here, whether they want to understand it here from the opposition, either the JRC or the Potami. Two major policies are conflicting: neoliberal policy which considers that any investment in welfare or in any case any euro given to welfare is lost, thrown into the hole, is not development, and we believe that every euro given to welfare is a developmental one, that is, a financial multiplier of 1.03% to 1.6%, depending on where it is given, to services or benefits. What does that mean? Every euro that we give welfare returns to the end multiplied by 1.03% to 1.6%. So we change this model and start horizontal benefits on the one hand and on the other hand the great investment in welfare. Yes, indeed - the President said so, I think, this morning - that from 790 million that we found welfare, we have reached 3 billion 225 million. But are we changing the model for many? How do we do that? We do it with the kids on the one hand and the roof allowance that opens these days on the other. What's that supposed to mean? The Prime Minister said it. I won't repeat it. We received a million four hundred forty thousand children and 650 million. We have reached it from eight hundred thousands of families in nine hundred thousand families, one million six hundred thousand children, and finally one billion 100 million. I will now submit to the Minutes everything I said this morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u109	Wait a minute to interrupt, Minister. I would like to inform the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-five students and students and three teachers from the 11th Lamia Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u110	I filed OPEKA's official data. There is no doubt about that. Therefore, we did receive a budget for the child of 822 million and reached 1 billion 417 million. If that doesn't mean anything, okay, I surrender! School meals: One hundred and fifty - three thousand daily school meals in a thousand schools. Three hundred thousand a year and the next year we're going to be a government, six hundred thousand. All primary schools. Watch it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u111	Poverty's growing!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u112	Anyone who thinks that eating all children in public school - and even telling me this - means that poverty is growing, and not that we are making a policy so that all children can eat together, be partners, be happy all together and change their behavior, then I am very sorry that we have not understood anything about it in particular. I would also like to say this: Mr Mitsotakis yesterday, if I remember correctly, said that, apart from the fact that he would fight cancer, he would also fight child obesity. Well, those except that they are homogeneous, vast, actually show that Mr Mitsotakis is not learning anything from what is happening in that country. In this country we designed school meals against obesity with the Agricultural University, because children with these school meals become addicted to Mediterranean food without dough, without sweeteners, so that they can start not wanting these things. So this has a huge pedagogical significance, huge health significance. What we have heard all this time is very naive at least and we see that the Right, as always, is uninformed. Of course, as far as the infamous vouchers are concerned, we have heard shocking things here that, with EUR 1,800 a year, with EUR 180 a month, would solve the problem of infantry. Is it possible that Mr Mitsotakis does not know, that no one has told him that we are giving more time than EUR 1,800? The Prime Minister said it this morning. Is it possible that he does not know that there are no nursery facilities and that they should be established? Does he not know that the voucher we give and which is one and a half times more expensive than what he promised, takes all the kids to go either to private stations or to primary stations, and suddenly he found out he's going to send them all to primary schools? What did he do for so many years? He was hiding the problem under the table. They gave vouchers only to the working woman, not to the poor, not to the unemployed. Isn't that a good policy on the left? I wonder. Finally, we do the roof allowance. I could talk a lot of time about the things we did, but listen. The housing allowance is basically a support for households and children because they benefit from it. 40% of the population that will benefit, that is sixty-seven thousand people, are children. The whole roof allowance is designed for young couples and children. That will say universal and horizontal policy. This means a change in the predictive model. I'm going to say two words about the Social Income of Solidarity that Mr. Mitsotakis has discovered now. He says it was his, that they had planned the minimum guaranteed income. Listen: The minimum guaranteed income they have planned, not even the lenders have approved it. Mr Mitsotakis and the previous government have not given one euro for five years to poverty. In two years, the first two very difficult years, we gave 315 million. Today we are giving 850 million to six hundred thousand people in extreme poverty and we have managed to reduce the rate of child poverty from 26.3% in 2015 to 24.7% in 2017, which means what? 24.7%. Do you remember the 23% I told you during the pre-crisis seasons? Today, with our policies, we have reached much less than 23% in the years of prosperity, child poverty. We're under 20%. I would at least like a little respect for the reality of this country, for what we have voted on, for what we are doing. And, of course, we have changed the entire prosperous state - and I am ending - because we have built two digital pillars, OPEKA and the state with the regions, where they have a common digital system that the centre and its heart are the two forty-two community centres. Right did not vote for them. He knew why he wouldn't vote for them. He did not vote for them, because this is how we made a privileged state transparent, where money would appear. You saw today, if you have noticed, that Mr Karamanlis questioned my words. At the same time I could have the evidence from OPEKA and submit it to the House. At the same time! It's all transparent. They're all digital and they're proven. The same applies to benefits. They're blaming us for benefits. Two hundred allowances received, given from a hundred twenty sources. So, really, who are they talking to? Today, everything is given from a source. These are the measures we have taken in the four very difficult years. Today we see from the report by the intergroup on demographic demographics that they are in line with the actions that the state must take to tackle the huge and complex problem of demographics, for which no previous government has done anything important or, at any rate, something systematic. Demographics are unfortunately not solved with a thousand for each birth. It is resolved with perseverance in horizontal actions for the child, the household, the motherhood, the woman. Today we put the fixed bases for the next generations to reap fruit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the Intergroup report on demographics has been completed. No vote shall take place pursuant to Rule 45(2) of the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-05-S1-commons.u114	With the consent of the House at 16.45 minutes the sitting is closed for Tuesday, March 5, 2019 at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
