ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval of 4-12-2019, the minutes of the FDA sitting of Wednesday, 4 December 2019 concerning the vote on all draft laws were ratified by the Bureau: 1. ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Serbia in the field of social security and its Administrative Rules of Application’, 2. ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Serbia on the mutual recognition of driving licences’]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In his letter the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that the topical questions to be discussed today are as follows: the numbers 267/28-11-2019, 270/2-12-2019, 271/2-12-2019 and 284/12-2019, which will be answered by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Brutsi, the numbers 265/27-11-2019, 283/12-2019, the topical questions to be answered by the Minister of Home Affairs, Mr Theodoro Lebanon and the question to be answered by the Secretary of State for Rural Development and Food, Mr Fotini Arabaji. We will start the debate with the fourth with the number 273/2-12-2019 topical question by Mr. Larisa, MP for the Radical Left, Mr. Vassilis Kossilis, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Public Agricultural Land: Huges the potential to support young farmers and professional farmers, but the Ministry of Rural Development and Food (PSDP) is deaf". I would ask that we keep religiously prosperous for time, because you know that soon after the debate on the tax bill begins. So, Mr. Red, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u2	Yes, Mr President, thank you. Madam Minister, as you know, the Ministry of Rural Development has thousands of rural areas and not just, throughout Greece. In previous years these lands were cultivated by so - called coasters. In 2012 came Law 4061/2012 and indeed laid a proper framework, according to which these areas would be cultivated by permanent residents, by professional farmers. However, this law has never been implemented even to this day. In 2018, the first serious effort was made to implement the specific law and criteria governing the transfer of real estate, in particular Article 7. We then called on all the relevant bodies, cooperatives, rural associations, to say their views on the criteria for implementing the law in Article 7. That is where everyone found to be indifferent to the law, but there was also the need for modifications to certain points of the law. Asked the State Secretary: Do you intend to apply Law 4061/2012, yes or no? Do you intend to apply Article 7 that regulates the criteria or, where necessary, amend Article 7 to the criteria, why do we have land-use phenomena, do we seem to be cultivating types of fields in our country when professional farmers or farmers need them specifically? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u3	Madam Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Colleague, if any other SYRIZA MEP asked me this question, I could understand and possibly understand his ignorance. But you must do it to me that you have passed through the Ministry of Rural Development and ask me why we have not already done it within four and a half months of what you have not done for four and a half years, it really goes beyond any political fantasy and reaches the limits of political courage. You come and ask us, Mr fellow Member, what are we going to do about the concession of public agricultural land and of Law 4061/2012 and you are effectively abdicating us, and you should apologise for your things for four and a half years. I'll explain, Mr. Comrade. You have received a legislative framework that gave the right, either by auction or against a low price, to grant the use of agricultural real estate, public property management of the Ministry of Rural Development to farmers in our country, in accordance with Articles 4 to 11 of Law 4061/2012, to which you referred. What have you guys done? On the one hand, you chose the logic of extensions to certain properties, the ones in Article 36(13), on the other hand, you basically strangled the rest of the proceedings of Law 4061/2012. I will explain why you strangled it: You have recorded a record of extensions in the use of the property of the Ministry of Justice, of an area of two hundred and five thousand acres, with which extensions, Mr. Colleague, remain established in the acres themselves and the concessionaires themselves, effectively excluding any other interested in rural exploitation of the land. In this area of two hundred and five thousand acres, as you well know, many important property belonging to the Ministry is included because of their area. So you have noted extensions, four, as well as your government's life. Extension first: Ν.4351/2015 to 31-10-2016. Extension second: Ν.4484/2017 to 31-10-2017. Extension third: Ν.4357/2018, extension until 31-10-2018. There was also a nice press release from Mr Arahovitis, to which I shall refer in my denology. Extension fourth: Ν.4610/2019, concession until 31-10-2019, Mr. [[At this point, the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Fotini Arabatzis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So for you to manage one side of these real estates, with continuous extensions - the ball on the platform as the people say - and of course the rest of the process you literally stopped it, you strangled it, as I will mention in detail in my second language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u6	Madam Minister, it really surprises me, I didn't expect it from you. You came to tell us what we were doing or what you planned to do on this particular subject, yes or no? You came to tell us if we gave extensions, which I said were granted three extensions, or what is the government planning, the Ministry of Rural Development on this particular subject you're in love with? If you have the impression that here we have come to do other kinds of controversy, to do so, but not to the timely question. I think it is very clear to ask: What do you intend to do? In the three minutes you spoke, you said what we did. I was the first one to catch up on you, and I said that we gave three extensions. In this respect: We designed in 2018, after three extensions, we called on all actors, Minister, in public dialogue, not only in the Ministry but also in the seats of the regions, for the problems of the law. Will you do that? That's all you have to say. You blamed us for nerve. You probably said you were supposed to have a plan. Where's the plan? Did we hear anything about this law? Ignorance of many things is a real danger, Minister. Can you talk? It is good to have the documents in this way and to speak if L.4061/2012, which provides for the use by young people, by professionals, by farmers, by local residents and what criteria are. You can say that these four criteria will be applied, someone will change them, how will this law work in all local communities? It's all about Greece. Public rural land is a good thing, Minister. If you intend to award them by auction - because until now, what exactly you want to do - if you intend to award them by auction to some big and powerful, that is all. Or is that it? Will you really apply the law? We did give three extensions, but in 2018 we invited the regions, we went to the regional seats, we consulted, we heard proposals. Are you going to do that, yes or no? Let go of what we did, all this communal artifact. Answer that. Will you apply Article 7 and amendments? Will you apply Article 15? Do you know what Article 15 says? This is what the world wants to know today, the farmer in Elia, Larissa, Serres, Kilkis, who want the land to be exploited by local residents, young people, professionals, young people. You know, today, the farmer can't buy a field, buy others, another class of people, heterocratics, and they must be supported, especially local societies, Minister. So leave the fireworks for what we did and answer them for this. Yeah, we'll apply him. Secondly, how do we apply it? Do you know that the reason for the extension was a particular region, which was unable to make geographical fragmentation of the pieces? Do you know which pieces require geographical fragmentation to manage the region? Do you know what the responsibilities of the Ministry of Rural Development are? Basically, the lever of implementation of the law is the regions. The regions, under our guidance, were most geographically fragmented. Because of the weakness of a region, Minister, we have been led to the last extension. For this reason, what the farmer who is interested in today, who is a professional farmer or farmer, whether he is in Elias, whether he is in Thessaly or in central Macedonia, will be able to exploit the law referred to in Article 7? Will it be possible to modify the criteria, perhaps, if necessary? Will the cooperatives be able, yes or no, and what is your plan? That's what the farmer wants to know today.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Red, thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, I am really impressed by the way you seem really to forget your works and your days, to forget that, in fact, for four and a half years, what you have been coming here and in a fierce style is what we have to accuse you of and apologise for your loss and frustration, and you come here and swing our fingers, even saying that we have ignorance of a legal framework. First of all, I will repeat it because the truth has to be said - four extensions, Mr President, and not three. As for the infamous dialogue with the regions, which you have initiated, you have established, I have not in practice seen you produce results from this dialogue. And I'll tell you, Mr. Colleague, because I didn't see it in practice. Because while your Minister came out to celebrate, with whom you joined the Ministry of Rural Development, Mr Stavros Arachovitis, on 9 October, and celebrated that the law on the granting of land to main occupation farmers and unemployed people is now fully energetic, after the very dialogue with the regions, which you said you did and which was very productive, and the same Minister is coming six months later, again in the law until 31-10-2019. So you want to tell the Greek farmers and farmers, who we really want to have access to public agricultural land, what else did you do to your infamous administration? Let me tell you what you're doing, Minister. Did you catch up in the system and a large number of requests, farmers and farmers, where they have applied for the concession of parcels in order to exercise or grow up, making their farm viable, who have applied for a land of less than a hundred acres, but which has been on a plot of more than a hundred acres, and what has been the result, Mr President? To have a cumulation of demands in the land policy sections of the country's regions for an area total of one and a half million acres throughout the country of public land, since then your Minister Apostolos, in his decision, had instructed regional units not to proceed with divisional concessions - so, in fact, to non-concession of land - for the purpose of granting them to the DIAGE. And these, Mr Kokalis, unfortunately, are not my words, Mr Arachovitis says on 7-12-2018, in reply to my question, Mr Kokalis. So what does Mr Arachovite say about this short-circuit? He says: "It is noted that these requests have not been examined because of the instructions of the office of the previous PSC political leadership." Does he make decisions, too, about the office of political leadership? I'm asking. ‘Let no partial concession be granted by the regional authority concerned for the use of a property of more than 100 acres in pieces below 100 acres in the context of the plan to be granted to the DIAGE’. So your choices, Mr. Kokalis, of the rolling extensions to the established concessionaires, the decision "Apostolos" essentially to keep the land locked, not allowing their concession to farmers and farmers has deprived our country's farmers of access to public rural land, has deprived public funds of revenue and has blocked land by reducing the competitiveness and sustainability of farms. And we, my colleague, because we really have a plan, because we are really next to the needs of the country's livestock world, we will not play the ball of extensions, as your own government did, but as political leadership we are coming back to power, to give you a concrete answer, the provisions of Law 4061/2012, so that real farmers, farmers and farmers can finally make use of the country's rural land with socio-economic criteria aiming at the sustainability of their farms and the demanding competitiveness by giving them a weapon to the chronic problem of Greek agricultural production, which is the small and luxurious lot. In conclusion, Mr Cooke, you obviously thought about it better, that you did not speak orally about what you are writing in your timely question about the management plans for grazing, Mr Kokalis, which you are suggesting in their preparation. You and your government, who are truly the gravel of this national objective of grazing management plans, which, with your own flaw, you let indifference...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u9	Madam Minister, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u10	I shall conclude, Mr President. ...31-12-2021 jeopardising the rights of Greek farmers in view of the criticality...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, this disgrace...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u12	Please. It's the first timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u13	Don't interrupt me, Mr. Comrade. You don't like the truths that sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u14	Mrs. Arabatzis, you've been over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u15	I'm finishing up on a perfection. In view of the criticality of the negotiation of the new common agricultural policy, Mr Kokalis, under threat of the absolute external convergence of structural aids for which, when you and your political leadership were alleged, were indifferent. We will therefore implement the law, Mr Kokalis, and will give the farmers and farmers of the country the public land to exploit their farms.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u16	Thank you. We continue with our second question with number 270/2-12-2019 on the first cycle of the Prime Minister of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Konstantinos Barkas, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Expansion of the Joint Benefit Programmes". Here, Mr Barkas, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, thank you very much. Minister, you know, like us, that programmes of a general public nature in times of crisis in countries where a deep crisis is going through have a double role. The first role is to manage unemployment when it grows. Unfortunately, in our country too, we have seen unemployment rise to 27%, especially in young and young scientists at even higher rates. And the second is to train, to give people who have studied something or, anyway, have some skills to be able to change their skills, so professional orientation. So in our country - and I am going to mention the programmes that we have dominated - we have programmes of a social nature and a social nature or a situation which has affected us as a society. I shall refer to the forestry programme. We all know the disaster in Matti or what our country has suffered with the loss of people because of rain, etc. There is also the hot spot programme. You know your immigration, your government knows, is a problem that is very serious. However, there are other programmes: the programme in Otta concerning thirty thousand young people, in municipalities and in regions, in welfare centres, in reception centres, as I said, in fifty-six municipalities and thirty-seven departments of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, a programme which concerns long-term unemployed people in the health sector, as well as the programme for five and a half thousand young scientists, young children who had their degrees and had to somehow enter the labour market. The total number of beneficiaries, therefore, is about 50 000, Mr Minister. The corresponding figure is about 500 million. Because - and you know that - the above mutually beneficial programmes, on the one hand, ensure the public interest by successfully addressing the emergency and urgent needs of the public services and bodies implementing them, on the other hand, providing valuable training, while at the same time strengthening the incomes of the unemployed, Minister, I would like your answer: What are the designs of the ministry? What does the Ministry plan for these programmes? Are extensions to be given? Is the Ministry going to operate projects in these areas where our country and society really had many problems? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u18	The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Brutsi, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Barkas' question gives me the opportunity to put a little more emphasis on the employment issues in our country, because I think it is very important and interesting to see and answer as political leadership - it is an obligation of every political leadership - what we are planning to do for the future. Because the problem for our country is not to respond to how programmes include under the umbrella of the public a covert reduction in unemployment in order to heal wounds, which really existed in the past. It is not a response to the great problem of unemployment, to low wages, to flexible forms of employment, to the perception and direction of such planning. Of course, acknowledging the special problem of our country, which was 27% yes, but unemployment began to deviate from the age of 13 and not by accident. I repeat in '13, unemployment began to deviate after the brave reforms that took place in Greece. The data will be presented today, as well as the details of ELSTAT and ERGANI, which "ERGANI" has shown that we have a better performance in November since 2000 than in 2018. Keep it to the point. The data will be presented today along with the Press Release of the Ministry of Labour. So what we have is the creation of jobs, the reduction of unemployment not through public interventions, but a reduction that will come through the private sector, in other words in a healthy way. There is no one in Greece who is watching us right now who can believe that a government's sound intervention to tackle unemployment is to make a virtual reduction through means of intervention in the private sector with public funds and by appointment to the public. In any case, I would like you to know that this government is determined to progress forcefully in the creation of new jobs, in the improvement of wages, in the improvement of quality characteristics. It is not a hope for the public. Hope is the healthy way, the private sector through which we try every day. I would also like to refer to my secondary and other colleagues who follow questions of the same nature in some of the important events which were also made yesterday by Syros, who are coming to the Ministry of Labour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Barkas has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I understand from your non-response that you will not answer either to me or to the Members who are next and who are concerned with a specific programme. The issues here, Minister, are simple. First of all, I am pleased that you have the opportunity, Minister, to plan the future of young people, when we received 27% unemployment and over 50% of young people, and indeed with a law to apply to the under-paid wage that you have signed. Young people and young scientists in our country were paid under the minimum wage. This law has your signature. But I am pleased that you no longer have to deal with such issues. But, Minister, you have other problems to deal with. And you will obviously agree that all the programs planned were not designed to get these people into the public domain. That's beyond us. Don't tell the Greek Parliament unless you have other plans. Because you know very well that for someone to enter the public, there is a particular procedure. These programmes, however, do something specific. And be careful, these programmes have not only worked in our country, Minister. All the countries in the world that went through such a crisis and had to deal with such unemployment, what they did is create skills for people who were unemployed, stay out of the labour market. In this sense, if you think that 'all right, we have solved the problem of forests, we will not have flooding again', I would remind you of the dead that you had too. But we, you know, don't lean, just like you did with Matty. But these programmes, Minister, were of a particular character to help with climate change, to clean up our forests, so that we can manage the refugee issue, which you are doing now, or for the young unemployed scientists. These programmes, I'm sorry to tell you, but they weren't just designed by public bodies, but we also put in other bodies like the EBRD. In that sense, Minister, we were planning. But you're not answering it. Avoid answering. And I think it is also the reason why you will not answer your doubling to me, rather than engraving the road map. What road map, Minister, will you be happy? Will you say that "we, with the growth we will bring, in a second life, will create new jobs", when you have the first quarter of your term of office an increase in unemployment? Why don't you say that? Why don't you mention this in your speech? So we just say things. What are you going to do with these programs? Will you let them finish? Is the Ministry planning for a second cycle? In fact - and I say this again - on key points, Mr President, at points where our country is actually facing a crisis even now. Refugee is something we are all talking about and forest protection. But, Minister, unfortunately neither will you answer me, nor will colleagues later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u22	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, SYRIZA's bad habit of getting divorced with the truth continues. The problem is, however, that it is constantly being exposed. I would remind you that in the national elections all this world you are talking about, the young people of our country and the workers have turned their back on SYRIZA. You have been voted against, although you have been making these attempts at a virtual reduction in unemployment through money and public resources. I would like to reply, however, because you said a terrible inaccuracy, that unemployment has increased. Now that SYRIZA has just said to the House, Mr President, unemployment has increased! Listen to this: July 2018, on SYRIZA, unemployment 19.1. July 2019, now, 16.9. August 18, on SYRIZA, unemployment, 18.9. Now, in New Democracy, 16.7 unemployment. September 2018, on SYRIZA, 18.8% unemployment. Today we are waiting for the results of ELSTAT. I predict that unemployment will be further reduced in our government. Conclusion: Be very careful, study, because you are exposed to the Greek people who see and know the truth. We insist, we design in a new environment. It is neither by miracles nor by magic wands that unemployment is tackled, by wishing or by means of masturbations, nor by public funding. In any case, for you to know who you are addressing, I am the one who as Minister of Labour 2012-2014, seeing the level of unemployment at 27%, then I planned with PASOK, with Vassilis Kegeroglou, the great intervention of social work, which will continue. He continued since the '13s, you kept her and she will continue. And it comes back to the great programme of socially beneficial work that will begin in February 2020 regularly, as was done in all previous years. Secondly, the issue of the hot spots programme, I have already signed it. Because of the specific nature and urgency and the national nature it has advanced, as well as the programme for workers in hospitals. For reasons and here health-critical purposes, this programme is continuing unnecessarily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u24	The rest, Minister? On the bells?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u25	I'll talk to you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u26	We have more questions. The three following questions, by Mr Apostolos, Mrs Manolakou and Mr Mulkiotis, concern the same subject. So our proposal is without anyone losing any right over time, all discussed together. In other words, Mr Apostolos will take the floor first, then Mr Mulkiotis, then Mrs Manolakos, in the parliamentary order, and the Minister will answer. The Minister's time is nine minutes. The three questions that will be discussed together are as follows: The first under number 271/2-12-2019 topical question by Evia MP of the Radical Left Coalition Evangelos Apostolos to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Expand employment through the programmes of a public nature in the protection of the forest ecosystems of Chora". The fifth, under No. 267/28-11-2019, topical question by the Member of Parliament, Boeotia, of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "In the air, workers in the programme of mutual protection for the forest ecosystems of Chora". The third, with number 284/3-12-2019, is a topical question for the second Piraya of the Communist Party of Greece. Diamantos Manolakos to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "For workers in the programme of social protection for forest protection". Mr. Apostolos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, we have heard a general position by the Minister for unemployment. Minister, my question is specific and has been awaiting a concrete answer for weeks. We, when we were government, on the issue of forest protection, in consultation with the Ministry of the Environment, of course, made the decision to incorporate five thousand sixty-six unemployed through the OAED's joint programme on forest protection, because we had already started by strengthening prevention with funding. We absolutely had to create the conditions for a staff who would be involved in the prevention and, more generally, in forestry work. So we hired these workers for eight months and on the way we saw that indeed the usefulness we sought was very important, the one that emerged. That is why, after eight months, we were extended with this programme, because the programme also has some conditions to implement very importantly. The first was that we must through this education and work - that is, we have substantially transformed unemployment into work and specialisation at the same time - to have workers who will be used for this particular need more widely in forestry work. So now, while their training is almost complete, what they lack to be qualified as foresters is a certificate of skill, namely that these work that they have done tomorrow, when the needs exist, can be done. This is not complete. Besides, I think your relationship with the Ministry of the Environment, I don't know, honestly it's a problem, whether you're in agreement or not. At the same time, the Ministry of the Environment cannot say that "we want to intervene in the firefighting sector, to give particular weight to the participation of the forestry service. This has already been done." How, then, will the forest service be prevented by forestry work when these people who already specialize do not have the necessary certificate of the forester? And, at the same time, they cannot, according to yours, at least spreads - what it seems - that you will not continue the program, that you will continue it later. I close by saying that the State Secretary, who had come here two months ago to answer the question, left the matter open. The spreads, which were particularly leaking from the OAS, were that there would be even a four-month extension, so that all the procedures would have been completed by entering the anti-nuclear period in April. I'm going to go on in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u29	Minister, first of all, I am pleased that you have chosen to answer today, exercising the right that you have from the FEK of the appointment and the responsibilities of the ministers, because last week Mr Metarakis did not come to answer and the debate on today was cancelled. In parallel with that, I will say that as well. I would like you today after the choice you made as Minister, with the responsibility of the Ministry, to undertake and carry out the work dispute with the Piraeus Bankers and to provide a solution to this problem, as it is an unacceptable situation for the redundancy of Piraeus Bank employees. Minister, the question is very specific. It has, of course, been tabled on 25 November. On 30 November the conventions expired. It was timely then. And now, however, it is timely, coupled with the fact that workers in public work on the anti-nuclear protection of forest ecosystems have gained a very important experience. There is an announcement given - and it was also heard a moment ago by Mr Apostle - by the State Secretary responsible at the time, in reply to Question 48 of 2019 by Mr Kegeroglu, who had committed himself to giving four months of extension to these social workers who have this experience. The question is: Is there this four-month extension? Does the Ministry intend to give this four-month extension to the workers of the public labour force? Furthermore, given the phenomenon of Kineta, given the flooding phenomena which have to do with the protection of forests, will the request of foresters who have specialization, experience be accepted with the skills they have acquired? In the new notice to have appropriate molecules in order to carry out further application procedures in order to allow for further permanentisation or inclusion into a new programme? Minister, I would like, because there are two specific questions, to have an answer to these very specific questions, beyond what we have heard. And what you said was interesting. In relation to the four-month extension for which the State Secretary, Mr Mitrakis, has committed himself, and which is therefore a government commitment to tell us: Is it being implemented or not being implemented? The second is whether it intends to meet requests for the 12-month renewal of contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, too. Mrs Manolakou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u31	Five thousand sixty - six contractors in forest services and decentralised administrations are many people to be found on the road. And I say it why? Because these people worked two eight months and unskilled. Therefore, asking for their work to continue is a profit for two reasons. Firstly, given the enormous problems in forest protection and the tragic subsidization of the country's forests, it will shut down the holes - not too much, not too little - because they need virtually 40 000 people, according to studies carried out by the trade unions. At the same time, skilled work will be exploited. And these people we need with all the specialties that have been mentioned, why? Because the preservation of forest wealth and the protection of the people's lives and property cannot enter the balance of budgetary costs. Like the necessary projects to protect the people, enter the cost-benefit scale. In fact, especially the protection of the country's forest wealth, which must be delivered to the next generations. It's not ours, we have to deliver it. So what we are asking for is, not what you have promised, the four-month extension simply, but the 12-month extension immediately and concerns everyone. And those who are gone. Because redundancies have started since the end of November. All of them! And in this period of 12 months they will be converted into an indefinite period of decent wages. Why, Minister, what did you say before? That these OAED type programmes are covered by unemployment. And I agree with you, because they have shameful wages. EUR 470. You don't live. It's half life. We are therefore waiting for answers to this potential that we need literally, because they cover organic positions and constant needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u32	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u33	I would like to say to the honourable Members, who have asked the questions about the mutually beneficial programme of fire protection, that I will respond in particular to my second language. I do so because I now want to have the opportunity to say, to my dear and respectable colleagues, that environmental sensitivity cannot be claimed more than anyone else. I belong to those who believe that we are all equally sensitive to the environment. SYRIZA's gentlemen, about the questions you have asked on this matter, "do not scratch on my slut" as they say. Because how we faced the environment in the summer of 2019 in relation to that of 2018 is a long way from light years. I leave this, however, trying to tell you not to be provocative in matters which you are not entitled to and which you cannot. The issue of the environment is a very serious issue and I agree that we need to ensure that we deliver to the environment better conditions in the next generation. However, because I will respond to this programme in particular in my dentistry, I would like to continue what I promised in the reply of the other Member who left just before on the issue of my return from Syros. Because that also responds to the 'hearts' of the problem. Because all the questions you have asked, and they are being asked about work, are one thing: dealing with unemployment and reducing it. The government's position - not now, but also in the run-up to the elections and the period when we were opposition - is that unemployment is not dealt with through the public. It is tackled through entrepreneurship, by creating healthy positions through the private sector, by attracting investment, through growth. Because we are the man, the worker and the unemployed. He's our spy. And if we do not have the tools of entrepreneurship, no matter how much resources we have from the public, which will be used up at some point, we will not hamper the social problem of the unemployed. That is why we are aiming at the way the entire developed world does, on the self-evident road to the private sector. Of course, the public sector also has an important role to play, in a specific context, but also budgetaryly we can demarcate what resources we will allocate to reducing open 'floods'. I'll tell you I returned from Syros yesterday. And it was an important day, not only for me, who, as Minister and Member of Parliament, represented the government together with the Minister for Development, Mr Adonnis Georgiadis, but also a great day for the whole country. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we cut off the ribbon of the opening of the Free Shipbuilding Zone of Neorio, with the creation of hundreds of new jobs, with workers from the shipbuilding zone, who were 'host' with the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Development, with the people who represent the operation. A fist all! Mr President, hundreds of jobs have been opened in Syros yesterday. One hundred and twenty Greek ships, Greek shipowners, are starting to return to Greece again and for the first time there is the symptom that they cannot serve them. So here's how jobs are being created. And what happened yesterday in Syros, we all wish - and the Greek Government will try - to do so in Elefsina. We hope that the Elefsina shipyards will be opened, that they will become free and competitive, that the Greek fleet, the fleet of Greek shipowners, who are scattered around the world and who until yesterday went to shipyards outside Greece, with a healthy union, such as the trade union I met in Syros, which fought every day for the defence of the shipyard. And he made it with the shipowners on the same side. Because they can't be separated. These logics of the inertia of the past or the inactivity of the creation of the private initiative were something that undermined the interests of the country, the national interest of the country. And yesterday, in Syros, there was a great, very positive event, emblematic for our country, which has always had the comparative advantage and has the "know-how" in the ship repair zone. And I saw shipowners at this meeting of the inauguration of Neorio. I saw shipowners who were there on their ships, arrow, out, waiting in order to get their time, to get a share of their ship's repair in the shipyards, who no longer fit them. So here's what the accomplishments are. So we can face tomorrow's challenges: open up private businesses and especially in the critical sector of the shipbuilding repair zone, which Greece can offer a lot. He has the potential! He had them! We have, however, lost them for the sake of ideology, for reasons of inertia, because responsibilities are spread more widely. And it's not the time to split responsibility. There was, however, a period when our country, in this critical sector that would bring billions to Greece, which would create hundreds of thousands of jobs, had lost this comparative advantage. We lost it. And Greek ships - think - were going from Turkey to Romania, all over the world, to make repairs, build new ships. And it was unfair for our country, for the new generations of our country! And yet, in Syros it became what we all wanted: the workers a fist with the owners of the business. On the same side who? The people we've known so far were the hardest opposing trade unionists on the property side. Syros Shipbuilding Workers set an example. And it was a great pleasure and honour that Elefsina’s workers also came to welcome the great event, calling for the entire political system of our country, united, to set an example for all of Greece, to open the Elefsina shipyards, to become freely, to leave those who undermined them in here, who undermined the national effort and kept them closed for reasons that have not yet been answered. But we're going together in the future. And the decision of Mr.Mitsotakis and this government is that we will open business for the Greeks. Finally, those toys, political and micro-groups, which prevented the development of the country. We are determined to find jobs for the Greeks! We are determined that Greeks return from abroad! This is why a major event is taking place on 9 December - the Ministry of Labour - under a flagship title: 'ReBrain Greece', that is to say, by the 'brain drain'. It is the first national attempt - symbolic - through a special program called 'ReBrain Greece', again in Greece, return to Greece. We are opening a programme for four hundred, high-level scientists, through whom we want to send a message of resounding everywhere, which enables four hundred scientists to return to the private sector in our country and not to the public sector. We want to give the opportunity to brilliant minds who have left to return, with incentives, with public resources. We want to make a flagrant move, with which to say, 'Come back, we finance your first year of work in the private sector', with the obligation of private companies to keep these young people back from abroad, close to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-six students and students and two educational attendants from the 6th New Smyrna High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, because you have chosen in your prototype not to answer the question, I just want to express my pleasure at the fact that an integrated plan for the Syros shipyard has been completed and the shipyards have been opened. I just want to remind you - because it is a matter that concerns me - that the Syrian shipyards were always private - they belonged to Mr Tavoularis - and saved them by means of specific orders from the country's Navy. I hope that even the first meeting with Mr Xinocosta, the 'ONEX', which took over the responsibility of the shipyard, together with the workers in both cases, was held by the previous government. And, of course, this whole thing was completed yesterday with the ribbon cut. Mr. Apostle has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, today we have experienced an unprecedented procedure for parliamentary scrutiny, the Minister presents us with the possibility, in essence, of commenting on his positions and opinions, because the question here is a specific one: this time five thousand sixty-sixty-six workers are on the way. So we'll be placed on our own predictions. I wish you could give us the floor for tritology as well. Mr Minister, on the basis of the spreads and all that we read, if you do so, you are actually stifling a serious effort that has been made in this area. And I say that it is a serious effort, because by giving the forest authorities the specific certificate of competence, a body is being set up that is absolutely necessary even today, tomorrow. Because the need to prevent forest protection does not exist only when fires and fires are evolving. There is a design based on the designs the anti-nuclears that forests have to complete by the end of March, so that we can, using these people, be more effective. The biggest, most serious tool in dealing with forest fires is prevention. As far as we are concerned, you will not extend this programme in May, April, when the anti-nuclear period begins, 'I will...'. We don't know. If you do go in that direction, know that you are disposing of this staff. Because since the programme has not been completed, not all the seminars have been held, where will you be relying on to give particular weight to these people, whom we need, why do they also cover real needs at that time? You know the part about local communities. And all those people who were in unemployment and who entered this programme are forest workers, loggers, livestock farmers. And you must definitely give special weight to them. We cannot prevent without these people. Minister, honestly, you give the opportunity to these people, who have all the preconditions, to be useful. I do not want to put in my word what is leaking, that you are preparing to raid your own people on this particular piece. It's gonna be the wrong huge. It's going to be a huge responsibility. Or are you doing so - why do we have information and it seems specifically from the budget - why do we have a EUR 85 million reduction in the expenditure of the OAS's public service programme? Do you do it to save resources? So I close because I know people are waiting. Give the opportunity at least to the four-month extension of the programme, which, as other speakers have already said before, you have committed yourself to implementing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u36	Mr Mulkiotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u37	Mr President, I have to say that the Rules of Procedure are not being complied with in relation to the timely questions procedure. And I say this because I cannot now make a dentist and have not received any reply to these two questions to the Minister. The Minister, of course, said about a very important issue for particular information. He could have told her in a minute and at least answered, so that we could answer. Now, what can we say? Is this a timely question procedure? I ask the government as it stands. Is that how we can move on? It is not just good legislation, it is good parliamentary procedure. Is that it? In the editorial in the ancient Greek language they said about salmonism. Something similar I can say is it. It's a salmonism process here. It's an indirect violation. That's a big problem. However, because, Minister, you cannot disagree with what you said and in relation to Syros, you have made sure that some have undermined it without saying anything. You've wrongly left insinuation. We cannot in this Chamber sound implied without specific answers. You have avoided, however, having a diligent response to the proposal that I have made and expected, whether you will today undertake the process of holding and holding the work dispute with the dismissals of Piraeus Bank. Minister, unacceptable manipulation, unacceptable procedure! You must take the initiative to get these workers back to work. Thirdly, in relation to Mr Mitarakis' announcement. Is, Minister, the government's commitment to a four-month extension? It is a specific question, that is the government's commitment through Mr Metarakis. Is that true? If it doesn't, what's going on? But does the State Secretary say, but does the Minister say today before the Greek Parliament? Finally, with regard to the importance - which has been heard a great deal - I, Minister, will present to you a document from the Directorate for Forestry, dated 11-10-2019, which is addressed to the Ministry for the Environment and Energy, namely the Government. This document by the Directorate for Forestry - which I shall be tabling in the Minutes - refers to a specific issue and says that it is undeniable to extend the contracts of these foresters, with a specific, substantiated view of a public service, which is responsible for huge areas, knows what work they have done and what work these people have done so long. He knows very well and the experience he has. And he knows very well - and this is the major - what is at stake. And there's a lot at stake, Minister. So why does the government choose or choose not to respond and secondly not to extend the conventions of these people for the four months? Because in relation to the workers' request and any announcements you make, you do not give the right after the four-month period to mobilise these people in the new notices in order to have another future. The questions, Mr Minister, - I insist and conclude - are two specific and specific. And I beg you very much to answer that. And also, answer your second-guess if you will undertake the work dispute with the dismissals of Piraeus Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u38	Mrs Manolakou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u39	Minister, you chose not to answer and make a retreat for Syros. And I'm saying it because state property and you and the previous ones are selling it sorely, and at the same time you're going through a whole arsenal that you're trampled into minimum labour relations. You've shot working contracts and you're coming to show us that this is the future. In the yards in Syros, however, industrial relations have become a tire. He knows all the Greek. Working conditions are inhuman, slavery. They put them for as long as they need them, and then they're thrown out like a squeeze of lemon worms. And, of course, you and the previous ones and the employment contracts have pawed and the flexible working relationships are going to be generalized and permanent. In essence, do you produce conditions that serve the profits of shipowners, business groups and especially what are you hiding? That in Syros you are building a small souda base, which will be dangerous for all the people. That is why you had the American ambassador to give you the blessings. But let me come to the point, because I don't want to override it, nor do you get us carried away. You speak of sensitivity to the environment and that no one claims it. You know what? The projects show and judge who is sensitive and to tackling unemployment. You are slaving the private sector because you have guaranteed them both privileges and conditions of slavery for workers! Do you also intend to give the forest ecosystems to the merchandise, that is, to private individuals and not to engage in forest work? And that's why you refuse to answer us? Why, in the end, do these five thousand people really cost? Only as much as it costs thirty kilometers of national road Athens - Thessaloniki. And yet the experience these people have gained means it's actually an offer and you want to throw them in the trash. And I say this because it is no coincidence that in all their mobilisations they have the support of more than eleven labour centres in Greece, from many federations and from most public associations. If you don't want to send the forest halls, then in practice shoot the forest ecosystems. You cannot come as a government and sell us a green growth bubble when you do not protect either the right to permanent and stable work or the environment. You're becoming hypocrites and making fun of yourself. Finally, you should know that the slogan these workers used to call was: "The forests want protection and we want work and not unemployment." We will be supporting this whole fight for permanent and stable work, because we also protect the right of these people to work. But it is also a one-way road to protecting forest ecosystems and human life from fire and flood hazards. Look, I was thinking that work contracts should be renewed with retroactive effect and for those who have left. I have in front of me a letter from a contractor from the Ikaria Forest. He left on November 30th. And you know what they were asking her for? Return the 711-euro seasonal aid. And if she doesn't return it, they'll take her two months off the unemployment benefit, i.e. no bread to eat! That's inhuman, it's barbaric! I would ask that the letter be given to the Minister and to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u40	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, thank you very much. I would like to begin with a general principle regarding the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, our government. Get away from us or any logic of micropsy. Yes, Mr President, you are right. The great project of the resolution of Neorio began on the days of SYRIZA in 2017. It's one truth. Be careful, however, that is the positive thing, that there is continuity in the state. At that time, as a Member of the Cyclades Prefecture, but also the New Democracy itself and Kyriakos Mitsotakis himself as Chief of Officer of Anti-Population did not undermine your efforts. We praised it and supported it, because I would remind you that, in the past, similar efforts by other governments - and from our own government in the past - have been made to rebuild overcompense in this House and outside the House of reasonable warfare, threats, imprisonment, expropriation, all of this. We didn't act the same. We were different as an opposition, and we took the spoon from where you left it. Today I think SYRIZA will also be pleased with the opening of Neorio and not only SYRIZA, the entire Greek Parliament and all of Greece, because what happened yesterday in Syros was the jump in the future, a hope that was first born after decades, free ship repair zone, Mr Manolakos and Greek shipowners to wait...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u42	With slaves!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u43	...with their arod ships, with patriotic conscience, to want...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u44	Then they'll blame you for not answering again. We're not getting to the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, I will reply. I've got nine minutes. But I think that yesterday's event is very important, because for the first time the ships are returning to Greece, the ships will wait to get their turn in order to be made in the Neorio of Syros. Be careful, I heard from Mrs Manolakos the incredible for the circumvention of industrial relations and a logic of the Middle Ages and a reasonable gala in the Shipyard of Syros. So listen, I'll give you another picture. I saw real eyes crying, I saw eyes tearing. They were the eyes of the workers, the union, the simple workers, but they were tears of joy and excitement that, for the first time, they saw making money in their pockets, and indeed very well, satisfied workers, hand to the businessman, with the board of directors, seeing the future go forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u46	We're talking about other eyes. In these eyes, what do you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u47	This is the answer to Greece of tomorrow, in Greece of entrepreneurship, in Greece of competition, in Greece of shipping, in Greece of the free shipbuilding zone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u48	You're shipowners!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u49	I now come to the last question and the most crucial one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u50	Please, ladies and gentlemen. We'll get you press releases.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u51	I repeat to reach agreement: first, the great public service programme, the public service work of thirty-five thousand - already on behalf of the Ministry of Labour - will begin and be announced immediately. It will start at the beginning of 2020. Secondly, the mutually beneficial program of scientists, graduates in hospitals, has already been signed by me and they continue their work for reasons very important to health. Thirdly, the public service programme on so-called hot spot has already been signed and continues to work. Fourthly, on the Forest Protection Programme: We do not underestimate its necessity and importance, but there will be a new programme at the beginning of 2020 and, of course, it is in our opinion that today's experience with special molecules should be exploited. It is another issue that we will see at the moment when the programme is planned and formatted, that is, very soon, at the beginning of 2020. So the public-private programme for fire protection will continue as a new programme under a new design. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u52	Say hello to her!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much. Now we will discuss the third question by number 265/27-11-2019, first question by the Member of the State of Change Movement, Mr. George Kamine, to the Minister of the Interior, on 'Institution of public bodies with merital criteria'. The Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr. Theodoros Lebanon, will answer. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes, but you, Mr Colleague, take your own stand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. I now heard Mr Brutsi talking about micro-political and micro-political games and telling us that a conference entitled 'ReBrain Greece' will be organised. I literally came to laugh at my face, because my question began on the occasion of the appointment at the University of Carditsa of the eighty-year-old Mr. Father, who has been through three parties. He told us that Mr Mitsotakis promised him an appointment when he became Prime Minister and I think we have a national public health school that has a postgraduate precisely with a health service administration. They graduate every year 50 children and go and appoint party friends and executives and then speak of Brain Drain. In research carried out among the five hundred thousand children who left in the years of the crisis, what we are told is that they did not care so much about the low standard of living in the country and low wages, their main problem was the lack of dignity in that country. I would like to ask the Minister, and I ask this question, why is this the Ministry responsible for appointments, what public calls of interest and what public responsibility have been made in a process of integrity and transparency, corresponding to Opengov, to your government and to the previous government, and if, in any case, the Openov system does not like you, what are you thinking of establishing? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u55	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. I had heard the words 'the complaints to the mayor'. Now, I hear the words 'the complaints to the Ministry that the mayors collaborate with'. The Ministry is responsible for appointments, however, it is not responsible for the appointment of administrations to agencies. The Ministry is responsible for the public administration. But since you mentioned the hospital matter, I'll tell you two things. The first is that that government does not hesitate to correct a mistake, which it recognises, and to correct it immediately. The second is that for the first time, the hospital managers will be assessed every three months on the basis of specific, measurable and quantitative objectives and it is something that is very important for the proper functioning of health establishments. As far as public administration is concerned: from the previous and before elections, and from the SYRIZA Government, but now they are continuing, there are positions of responsibility in the public sector. It has already started and has been posted in "GENERAL" and applications are being made for the service of secretaries to the Ministries. The period of application shall end in mid-December. This is a very important step. It was established by Law 4622 for the ultimate state. The post of the secretary of staff was established as a civil servant at the highest level, who will have specific roles in the functioning of the Ministry. It will take on two very important areas, the so-called administrative sector, which is the issue of staff management and also of financial management. This invitation will run and will be completed soon. We are in constant contact with the AACC and for the first time civil servants, civil servants with merit will take up the post of secretary. Furthermore, a series of positions had been opened for directors and by the previous government and many of them have been completed. If I am not mistaken, a hundred and twenty-nine headquarters were now opened and a hundred and four were judged and we will soon finish the process for the rest and quickly proceed to the selection of directors and heads of department with two centrally asked questions: first, merit and second, objectivity. It will not only be the calculation of molecules. There will also be an interview, because you know that molecules often do not reflect the real image of a worker. Through the interview with a structured questionnaire and public interviews this will be completed and progressed as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Kamine, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u58	I just want to say, Mr President, that as early as 2010, the hospital managers actually met every month and were judged on the basis of measurable targets that had been set. Let me remind you that at the time, e-prescriptions were also in place and also evaluated by the hospital managers, depending on how they achieved these goals. At that time, in 2009-2011 they were appointed by the open gave system - from which three thousand people passed - with remarkable procedures of general secretaries, such as Mr Theocharis who is a member of today's government, Mr Andreas Takis, Mr Pinelis, Mrs Maria Generalakis, a lot of worthwhile people. I heard what the State Secretary said. I believe that the big problem of the country is not the economy. The big problem of the country is the state and the state means, above all, staffing and evaluation. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u59	Thank you. The State Secretary for the Interior Mr Lebanese has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u60	Very briefly, Mr President, open gave, when it was created, after the 2009 elections, was a change. I think, however, that the then government has wronged itself and again, through open gave, former MPs and failed Members. There were cases there too, not only the cases you mentioned. There are also cases of Members who were not elected and suddenly found, supposedly, through open gave in positions of responsibility. In any case, that doesn't matter. It's important that we must immediately...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u61	After having passed it from open gave, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u62	Yes, and by chance they were completely chosen as the most appropriate. So what matters is that we proceed directly to the post. It is also very important for the public, but also for the civil servants, to feel that they are neither wrong nor required to belong to any party, trade union or other body. What needs to be done and done immediately is to complete the crises, complete the staffing in the narrow public sector, but also in the wider public sector, including the local authorities 1 and 2 degrees. To make crises, evaluate executives, evaluate those chosen to be able to cope with their work, and most importantly to produce work and policy, because citizens need results and projects at the moment, and above all to be served. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u63	The fourth question under number 283/12-2019 will be discussed now, first question by the MP of Heraklion, the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Synthraki, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Direct restoration of the damage caused by the catastrophic floods in the prefecture of Chania, support and compensation for the affected". It will be answered by the State Secretary for the Interior, Mr. Lebanon. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the wounds of last winter's catastrophic floods in Chania have not yet been closed and, unfortunately, the people relied on the flood nightmare at the beginning of last month, especially in the municipalities of Platania, Kissamos and Cantanos - Selina. In the already damaged areas we have again significant damage to crops, dwellings and flocks. Removable areas due to the lack of support for the earthly masses next to the network and the strong torrents that ended up in it. There have been cracks and landslides on the national road network, endangering the safety of the passing people. These consequences are not the result of a divine punishment, nor are they generally the effects of climate change. It is a result of non-existent infrastructure and networks, which led to hundreds of excluded villages, people's homes destroyed, main provincial roads destroyed and parts of the North Road Axis, disasters of part of the rural network and other infrastructure, such as bridges and damage to agricultural, livestock and greenhouses. Despite the promises made by the previous government, the region, the municipal authorities, residents continue to suffer the effects of the criminal indifference of the state. Funding by the State remains weak. And while the cost of last year's losses amounts to EUR 200 million, the only sums approved are EUR 15 million from the central self-resources and from the region's own resources and EUR 4.5 million from the Solidarity Fund in other respects of the European Union. They do not even meet the immediate needs, nor do they have any reason for the long-term planning of anti-military protection. There have just been some openings of roads and cleansing of squids from the streams. Neither the essential and essential task of restoring the support of the road network and bridges has been carried out, nor has the necessary protection measures as a whole in the run-up to the winter that is already under way. No compensation for those affected in housing, plant - livestock and others. Finally, once again, the floods showed how vulnerable and irresponsible the country is and not only Crete, because we also have phenomena in Thassos, Kineta and elsewhere, from the lack of flooding and other infrastructure. We ask you, Minister, what measures the government intends to take in order to record and restore all the damages, to compensate those affected by the State budget at 100%, to make the necessary studies to ensure that this phenomenon is not repeated and compensated for all those affected, as well as to reduce taxes, municipal fees, HNPIA, bank debts. In addition, all damage to the national network and the provincial network should be restored and soil support studies should be carried out. To implement, without delay all the necessary flooding projects, the necessary rivers opening and deepening, settlement of the torrentials and flooding to cover all needs, on the basis of and studies carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, too. The State Secretary, Mr Lebanon, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u66	Mr Synthyriakis, we had the opportunity last week and in Mr Delis' question to discuss the disasters in the Olympiad of Halkidiki. What I said is that if it happens once, if we're sad once, when it happens second and third times. We must be ten and a hundred times sad, because it means that some things have not been done in the intervening period. Indeed, the western part of Crete and the county of Chania was rewounded in the past few days by the bad weather and the extreme weather phenomena. As regards the steps taken, the Region of Crete estimated the damage caused in 2018 at EUR 120 million. It was the initial assessment. The district director of Crete has given 10m euros for direct interventions on the road network of the regional unit of Chania. Also, by decision of the Region of Crete, 4m euros have been provided for direct interventions for flooding and sewage, 1,900,000 euros from the technical programme of the regional unit of Chania have also been given for cleansing ramps in addition to the previous one, and most importantly, 78m euros have been approved to carry out projects for the definitive restoration of damage to fifteen provincial municipalities in the regional unit of Chania. Furthermore, the Ministry of Interior, beyond the region, has supported the municipalities of Chania from 2017 until now, with around 6.5m euros for the restoration of damage from natural disasters, there are the financial programmes to which the municipalities have joined and mainly concern the supply of machinery, so that they also have logistical equipment to go ahead. In particular now for the rehabilitation of affected individuals there is a three-member committee that coordinates and proceeds with the recordings and restorations of money. The Municipality of Platania, for example, has been subsidised on 18-32019 to around EUR 501,000 for the restoration of these private losses, the Municipality of Cantanos - Selinos with 5,000 euros on the basis of the applications submitted, the Municipality of Kissamos with 115,000 euros and the Municipality of Chania with 39,000 euros. For this money - and it applies to all natural disasters - the three-member committee meets, the Ministry of the Interior makes every effort to be directly attributed to individuals as soon as possible and what they examine and in cooperation with the Ministry of Digital Governance is to make the application simpler, to make applications electronic, so that in the event of disasters the affected can be compensated very quickly. I'll come back to my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u68	Minister, I do not know what you have said. The issue is that the situation in Chania remains exactly as it was immediately after the winter disasters. I will only tell you this: do you know that Chania has not been classified as a flood area? We ask you why it has not been classified. You referred to some amounts. Note, however, these amounts are more than a communication from the Ministry and the region, because in reality, until now, they have been exploited, a very small sum has been allocated only for the opening of the rafts and the cutting of squids, nothing more. I will tell you, for example, about the Municipality of Platania, which has suffered the biggest damage, of the 50 million estimated damage costs, technical issues EUR 33 million have been approved and only EUR 11 million have been disbursed, when the cost of the damage is only EUR 50 million. It can be estimated by the region at 120 million. The reality is greater, not to talk to you in general about the damage that Crete has suffered, which is far beyond the number you mentioned. They have not been restored by the disasters of two hundred houses called "yellow" i.e. they are not residential. What do you have to say about it? What have you done about it? But they continue to pay for the loans they do not inhabit. Why don't you suspend their debt obligations for as long as it takes until the damage is recovered? Secondly, farmers despite the destruction of animal and plant production, have not received a penny of crazers. Why? Answer these questions. Even if they get some money from the PSAs, they'll get to their hands after two or three years. What have you done in this regard? On the Bridge of Keritis just ten days ago, a Bailey-type bridge was placed to serve the Chania with two provinces of the Prefecture. What have you done so far to build a modern and secure bridge that serves the needs of the local people? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And finally, in many villages of the Municipality of Platania the CBEL does not assume the responsibility of taking the bus to many villages, because they have destroyed roads, they have sighed by the landslide and the alterations of the road. Why? What measures do you intend to take to deal with this problem? In its choice, the government every time the country's need for anti-military protection is invoking climate change. You, of course, did not invoke it. You're more careful about your location. But many times the previous government, and many members of the current government, are also taking on board that "We could do nothing. It was extreme weather that went beyond human effort and went by saying. I will only tell you, to see the indifference of government indifference and the conscious choice of all governments not to go into the plan, not to fund anti-flood protection projects that have to do with the safety of people's lives, that since 2012 there have been reports and studies on the risk of flooding and identifying high-risk areas and in the fourteen water regions of the country, which have pointed out that there will be incalculable disasters due to the floods. To date nothing has been exploited, none of these studies, either of these reports.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u69	Finish it, Mr. Synergy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u70	At the same time, sustainable and fair growth is taking shape, but only for projects relating to entrepreneurship, tourist development, hydrocarbons, airports and so on. We, in any case, Minister, will raise these issues again. Will you preach Chania Prefecture as a flood area and record the damages and all the residents of Chania? Will you take all those necessary design and implementation measures over time to address these phenomena of flooding phenomena? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u71	Thank you. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Synthraki, you know, I have the opinion that climate change creates the extreme weather phenomena, which are now so regular, that we need to get used to and be prepared to avoid endangering lives and property, as is happening lately. Especially for the bridge you mentioned, it's two, if I'm not mistaken. The region has again informed us that the technical programme of the Regional Unit of Chania was given EUR 1 million for the Bailey bridge and the temporary bridge of Keriti. Also, because you have raised many issues, including some of them you realise that the consortia of many Ministries, such as the compensation of farmers from the disasters, various issues about flood protection zones, but also about your fuller information, so that you can get them and come back, whenever you consider it appropriate, I would like to submit five documents from the Ministry of the Environment to the Office for Protection and Management of the Water Environment. From the Hellenic Authority of Geological and Mining Research on the issues of the high-risk zone for streams and in particular for the Municipality of Platania. From the Municipality of Sfakion, Gaydou, Cantanos - Selinos and Platanias and the Ministry of Infrastructure, on the projects that have been carried out. On the opportunity to mention that the Ministry of Infrastructure has launched two studies of anti-military works "Limnoxen in the Koundoura position of the Municipality of Kantanos - Selinos" and "Manufacturing of anti-military works in the Region of Crete, a special provision of 11b, a budget of 2,500.000 and 1,300000 euros". I'll testify these to get some knowledge and keep you informed. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Home Affairs, Mr Theodoros Lebanon, submits to the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In other words, we are also obliged as a government to try to resolve a matter that is decades old and which is the issue of anti-military armour, bearing in mind a new major element that exists, the frequency and intensity of rainfall. In this context, therefore, also on the basis of the new financing programme for local government projects, we will proceed with further study and construction of the necessary flooding projects, particularly in the high-risk areas. As to whether the Municipality of Chania has been described as flooding, I will see the request. I don't have a picture why he hasn't been filed. I'll come back and let you know. Let me see first of all what's happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. [[CHANGES BACK FOR CHANGING MATTER]] The first question was not discussed under No 276/2-12-2019 in the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Karditsa, Aminina Skondra, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Serious malfunction due to the submissiveness of the services of the Greek Farmers' Association of Thessaly", after the Minister's consultation with the MP. Also, the fifth question was not discussed under No 267/28-11-2019 in the second time question by the Member of Parliament's Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "In the air, workers in the programme of public health for the protection of the forest ecosystems of Chora", after consultation of the Minister with the MP. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the updates of Friday 6 December 2019, which reads as follows: A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 268/29-11-2019 topical question by MP B3 of the Athens Coalition of the Radical Left, Mr Ioannis Mousala, Minister for Civil Protection, on "Proclamations on the management of the immigration/refugee issue". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 285/3-12-2019 topical question by F' Vice-President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Georgios Lambroulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The situation in the General Hospital of Thorakos "The Salvation". 3. The 277/3-12-2019 topical question by Piraeus II Piraeus of Mera25 Mr. Fotinis Bakadammas to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "An incident of police repression against students". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 289/3-12-2019 topical question by MP Rethymno of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “The implementation of the National Action Plan on hepatitis C is delayed. ” 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 287/3-12-2019 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on "Building the North Road Axis of Crete (BOAK)". 3. Under No 278/3-12-2019, a topical question by Mr. Athens, Mr. Angelikos Adamopoulou, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Incidents of police violence and arbitrary action: the case of Peace Eminidou and Zesi Sourla". 4. The question by No. 290/3-12-2019, by Mr. Larissa, Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Anna Vageas - Kilaidonis to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Exercise the problem of trafficking - trafficking - use of narcotics in the center of Athens". 5. The question by No. 279/3-12-2019 that was raised by MP I of Athens, Mera25, Angelikos Adamopoulos, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Educational structures in prisons - Korydallos Shop School". 6. The 280/3-12-2019 topical question by MP B2 West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Difference of toxic waste on the water supply and the sea of Olympiad". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 281/3-12-2019 topical question by MP B2 West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilias Arseni to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Dafni Monastery Distribution in the Municipality". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 1279/15-10-2019 by MEP Larissa of the Change Movement Mrs.Evangelias Lykoulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The institution of the family doctor in crisis". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 1338/18-10-2019 by Mr Dimitrios Biagis, Deputy Prime Minister of the Change Movement to the Minister of Health, on "Reconstruction of the Country's Health Regions". Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Forum reform with a development dimension for Greece tomorrow". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on Tuesday 3 December 2019 to discuss the draft law in two meetings, one on the principle and the other on the articles and amendments. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u75	The House has agreed. Members' speeches are seven minutes. The inclusion of the speakers begins with Mr Amyras going up and ends with Mr Alexiadis going down. So open the circuit. Mr Amyras has the floor on behalf of the New Democracy for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of proposing to the House the first comprehensive government tax bill entitled 'Forum reform with a development dimension for Greece tomorrow'. See how this draft law, which will be voted on tomorrow and become a law of the state, breaks a tradition of many years, almost a decade. This title of the bill has substance, it actually reflects the tax reform for Greece of tomorrow that we want. However, it breaks a tradition of many years, almost a decade ago that wanted every time a tax bill was submitted to Parliament to be accompanied by the news releases, newspaper titles, news sites, radios, channels with the following expressions "taxilates", "storms", "who will pay the marble?" And yet this tradition breaks. None of this characterises our tax bill, no burden on any natural person or company, but on the contrary relieves everyone. For the first time, then, in a decade the taxpayers have been given breath and optimism, for the first time we have a tax bill that reduces taxes instead of increasing them. The debate is now on the reliances...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u77	Please, just quiet down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u78	It's blocked the registration system.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u79	All right, we'll get in touch with them to fix it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u80	This shows how good tax bill we've brought.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u81	Open the system right now. You can register, ladies and gentlemen. Keep going, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time in a decade, optimism has been given to taxpayers, and for the first time we have after many years a tax bill that reduces taxes instead of increasing them. The debate is on the reductions and not on the burdens. These reductions in the government’s tax bill exceed 1.200,000,000 euros. Economic efficiency and social justice, this is the guiding principle and the bouquet of the government as it appears and is practically reflected with concrete measures in this tax bill. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, when the tax bill was introduced for discussion and processing, we have experienced an unprecedented, perhaps an awkward moment. It was a time when Mr Stakoras, the Minister of Finance, addressed the institutions. And there were all the operators there: from taxis to any link you want, automobile leasing, people working on shipping. All production Greece was gathered in this committee, where we had the hearing of the bodies. So Mr Stakoras turns to the bodies and says: 'Is there any provision that you want me to withdraw?' There was a dead silence, an awkward moment. We have all looked at the agencies, and the agencies said 'no, do not withdraw any provision, because the tax bill is positive'. So before we vote for the tax bill here, the productive Greece had already voted for its vote of confidence. "They bring our tax system," said the institutions, "better to Europeans, encouraging investment and creating new jobs". "Maybe for the first time," said a representative of other bodies, "Greek taxpayers can optimise". A third party submitted his opinion that serious steps are finally being taken to combat tax evasion. It is not, therefore, a question of wondering that the Anti-Population and, in particular, the Acoustic Anti-Population, that is, SYRIZA, appeared dizzy by this tax bill, withdrew theories from naphthalene, tried to get out of the scratch fly and in some cases went to do the hair unsuccessfully. So listen to what we will hear today from SYRIZA and of course the answers that we will give: A grief first of all from SYRIZA, from you ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. We are told: 'We haven't had time for us to do it'. You have, of course, been able to exaggerate everything, you have of course made it possible to increase VAT in too many kinds of food from 13% to 23%, and then all together at 24%, you have had time to put rags on beer, coffee, the fixed phone and wine. And especially for wine, you tell us as your success that it is you who removed the raisin from the wine. Firstly, you imposed the raisin on wine, and secondly, it was the Council of State which decided that this raisin was unconstitutional and, of course, it had to be abolished. You will also tell us that you did not have a chance, but I must remind you that you have been prevented by the Greek people, because on 7 July Greek citizens chose responsibility, seriousness and social sensitivity. SYRIZA also tells us: "Give out of the readys." Another awkward moment we spent in the Committee on Finance, when Mr Stakoras the Minister for Finance revealed that, when he took up his duties at the Ministry of Finance, in his office he found a paper from the General Accounting Office of the State, a paper given by the General Accounting Office of the State and Mr Tsakalotos, stating that the budget gap for 2020 would exceed EUR 1 billion. Even the Commission, in June, which passed us, had ringed a big bell, saying that there is a large budget gap. Within four months the government has covered EUR 1 billion of the budget gap and has come to a relief that we are discussing today EUR 1,200,000. I mean, cover a distance, a course of 2,200,000 euros. You are also telling us that some of SYRIZA's "small reductions from your tax bill, you are giving crumbs". So I challenge you, and I invite you to go and tell a free trader, a plumber, a craftsman, a self-employed person, a farmer, a trader, who, with this tax bill, will see more in his pocket than 1,300 euros, since so much is tax reduction. You are also telling us that the relief given to the tax bill is greater for the rich and smaller for the poor. And there we had heard a cute - truth - argument for someone who earns 800,000 euros a year and tax relief, he says, is greater. Mr. Besyropoulos, the Deputy Minister of Finance sat down and counted them. There are four hundred forty, all those paid to Greece annually with 800,000 euros and each of them pays a tax of 442,000 euros. And finally, another argument that some like candy grows in their mouths is "you've forgotten the middle class". Who's saying that? They say it is those who made professionals compulsory to pay 75% of their income in contributions and tax and then cared about the middle class. They call it the ones who took thousands of kinds of food - the humble macaroni? - and they took it from 13% to 24%. Ladies and gentlemen, our New Democracy and Government have the middle class at the heart of its concern as an eye daughter. Aren't the middle class concerned by the permanent intersectional reduction of 22% of HISBIA? Six million citizens have benefited from the reduction of the ETUC brought about by the New Democracy Government and even since 2019, despite the fact that Mr Mitsotakis had said beforehand that this measure would apply from 2020. Aren't the middle class concerned with improving the hundreds of twenty-five instalments? In fact, no one ever understood two because in the hundred and twenty instalments legal persons, companies, had not been included. Is it not a middle class the six hundred thousand citizens who made use of the option of 20 doses, thanks to the Mitsotakis Government legislation? Or is it not about middle-class citizens' safety? Many steps are being taken in the safety of citizens, in order for universities to be freed from the centres of lawlessness, and our neighborhoods, and the streets, and there are no ghettos in the towns of Excavations. Isn't it about middle-class protection of first-class residence? I would remind you that SYRIZA had foreseen the protection of the first residence until 31 December. We gave another extension until spring 2020, the first residence is protected. Is it not also about the middle class to increase the heating allowance? I would remind you that, in Samaras, the heating allowance was EUR 150 million per year, you did it to EUR 60 million - that is, you have broken it up - and we are now slowly setting it up again. But 10 million euros extra for the heating allowance and the money ahead. Nor is it important to repay the exact loan that we had received from the International Monetary Fund. Unfortunately, the previous government had not even submitted a request. The online gambling, 5.5 billion euros, online online online gambling was irresistible. It was assumed at the end of December 2017 that the SYRIZA Government would have regulated this market. He left her uncontrollable. There to see tax evasion. Our government came and within four months he set the legislative framework to define online gambling. So that's all within four months. What you will not hear, ladies and gentlemen, from the opposition and in particular from SYRIZA will be told by the citizens. With this tax bill, firstly, it is reduced from 22% to 9% the first import tax rate for incomes up to EUR 10,000. As I said before, free professionals, and only from this arrangement, will benefit the year of EUR 1,300, infamous fund for EUR 1,300. Also, 28% was the business tax, which SYRIZA had increased, 24% with a piece of legislation, with this tax bill, we get it. We reduce business tax by four points. Let me now give you a few examples of both employees and natural persons and businesses. Free professionals: With the new tax bill a free professional who earned 10 thousand euros a year would have to pay a tax of 2.200 euros. Now he's gonna pay 900 euros. A free professional - whoever you want - a cheeseman, an electrician, an electrician, a furniture, a craftsman who earned EUR 25,000 a year, now would have to pay on SYRIZA EUR 5.850 and now with the tax bill will pay EUR 4.550. Let's go to the employees, too. Income of an employee with two dependent members of EUR 14 000 a year would have to pay EUR 1.080 a tax. Now he's gonna pay 920 euros. Let me just tell you something simpler. Employees, including the public and private sectors, will see an increase in their earnings and pensioners. It's the first time they've increased after a decade. Up to EUR 15 per month, public employees and pensioners receiving over EUR 617 per month and having no children, up to EUR 14 per month an increase for public employees and pensioners receiving more than EUR 633 per month and having a child, an increase of EUR 17 per month for public sector employees and pensioners receive over 700 euros per month and are borne by two children, an increase of 27 euros per month for civil servants and pensioners receiving more than EUR 682 per month and a burden of three children. We have a reduction in the tax advance officially from the tax bill. I remind you that SYRIZA had received the advance payment for business tax in 50%, 55%, there he took it to 100% and now that we start declining and by five points we reduce the advance payment of the tax by SYRIZA is whistling indifferently. It's Saturday day. I'd like to know, would you vote for a reduction in duty? Will you vote on the increases in pensions and wages by reducing taxation that we are doing? I'm not optimistic about your attitude at all. Undoubted, another bitter, sad story about SYRIZA. He had taken the tax at EUR 9,600, he took it down to EUR 8,600, despite the threat that he would give up the Ministry of Finance if he fell tax-free, the tax-free was EUR 1,000 on SYRIZA, no one resigned and now see if they would vote for the tax-free, that is to say, his support, first of all, by EUR 1 000 for every child. One who has a child by 9,000 euros will have his tax free, with two kids 10,000 euros, with three children EUR 11,000 and he goes by saying. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please for your tolerance. It is a contribution of solidarity, ladies and gentlemen. The solidarity levy was an exceptional measure. It was supposed to expire on 31-12-2016. You have made it permanent, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, and now we say that those who are disabled, with an 80% disability, cease their obligation to pay a solidarity contribution. Yesterday we had the world's disability day. I am very curious to see, will you vote in favour of the release of disabled people from the solidarity levy? [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Dividends: We are reducing the taxation of dividends from 15% in substance - and not 10% - to 5%. SYRIZA says, "But it concerns a few large businesses." Didn't you open any paper yesterday, read about the Army Equatorial Equity Fund, that he's about to give a dividend? Who's going to give it to the rich? He'll give it to the officers of the Armed Forces. So will you vote in favour of reducing taxation on dividends? This is where I want crabs to walk in the coals. Ladies and gentlemen, the tax bill has a social objective, providing incentives for businesses, firstly, to distribute shares to workers, make them the workers involved in their efforts to develop. It gives incentives to businesses to hire and buy anti-pollution vehicles. We are all talking about climate change, we are all talking about the need for the environment to be put forward to our priorities. Will you vote on these provisions, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? It gives the incentive bill to businesses to buy and give their employees unlimited pass cards. Let's go to another very important subject in the building. Tens of professions are linked indirectly or directly to construction. What's the tax bill and this government doing? Firstly, it suspends VAT on building for three whole years, it suspends the value tax on real estate transfers. Another small measure, however, is very important: it enables the notary who handles the sale contracts of a property to retain the property that owes this property and proceeds to the sale by deducting it from the price. Because too many people could not make use of their real estate, given that they owed HISBIA and could not pay him back. Small - small steps, but they are very important. We are also coming to the fight against tax evasion. The Mitsotakis government trusts citizens. It is therefore proposing to reduce taxes, but asks citizens, firstly, to ask for proof and, secondly, to exchange electronics so that tax evasion can be curtailed. Ladies and gentlemen, the tax bill is a social contract with common benefit for the development of the economy and the improvement of the level of life. Armageddon, anticipated by Mr. Tsipras, has proved to be tax reliefs of more than EUR 1 billion. On SYRIZA, there was no such issue, the problem was who would be overtaxed. Here we are talking about tax relief. The Mitsotakis Government has chosen to promote the tax bill, the developmental nature, to breathe into the middle family and low incomes and with the credibility of these reforms and our economic policy, with accelerating growth, the Prime Minister will also win the next goal to reduce the atrocious surpluses from 3.5% to 2.5%, which Mr Tsipras had signed in 3.5% over the next few years. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u83	Please conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u84	I conclude, Mr President, just at first we had a delay until the system was unlocked. I'd like your tolerance for a minute. The present draft law, the tax bill, fully serves the basic ‘development for all’ clause and lays the foundations for tax justice, social solidarity and support for productive Greece. In conclusion, these reforms reduce the burden on households and businesses, stimulate growth in key sectors of the economy, such as tourism, such as manufacturing, such as building and enhance the incomes of employees, pensioners, farmers and professionals. For all these reasons, we are proud that we are bringing this tax bill and I call on SYRIZA to vote in favour of this tax bill as a pragmatic and humble apologies for all that he has done, the carpets, the over-taxes of anyone who has been breathing, walking and swimming in that country. So we urge you to vote in favour of the tax bill, because as I said at the first meeting of the committee, it is a tax bill to drink in the glass! Thank you. To the tax bill, then!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory of the Parliament, since they have previously participated in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation, twenty-two students and students and an educational attendant from the 4th Haidari Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would also like to make a statement to this House. The Ministers of National Defence, Finance, Labour and Social Affairs and Home Affairs submitted a draft law on 4-12-2019: "Confidentialities of the Ministry of National Defence". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Alexiadis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are taking part in the legislative debates in the view that it is self-evident that there should be a real political dialogue, namely that the government should bring in a bill, some provisions, some proposals, answering, criticising and answering the government. So what have we noticed at four meetings of the Committee on Economic Affairs, but with a surprise and now in the report by the rapporteur of the New Democracy? Full dismantling of the parliamentary process, complete dismantling of the process of democratic dialogue. Of course, for those who had delusions in why the New Democracy does this, the best answer is that they forget its political history. You cannot stand for political dialogue, and especially for taxation, you cannot stand for the counter-protect. So you will listen and you will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u87	Two days isn't enough? Let's understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u88	Mr President, because I anticipate a lot of holidays, I can take a vacation, I have no problem...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u89	You always have interest, Mr Alexiadis, in that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u90	Just in Mr. Defyras' suggestion of respect, we didn't make any interruptions. I have no problem, but there must be a real dialogue if some people want the dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u91	I would ask you not to interrupt the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u92	As far as the issue of the bill is concerned, we have heard for years that you were ready, that for so long you have been ready for tax. So what comes out of the tax bill? It took five months to bring the bill to the House, thirty-nine articles were made public in consultation, strangely sixty-seven articles were tabled in plenary! And from the committee to the House, eight other articles were added with a strange amendment. Question No 1, by Mr Minister, and we hope you will answer that question because you have not answered any questions in committee. Will we have other articles and other amendments? In the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs we have asked specific questions for both I and the other speakers in terms of SYRIZA. We didn't have an answer to one either. We had the classic logic of throwing the ball at the platform. Of the nine questions which I have put to the Committee on Economic Affairs, Minister, I ask you to answer at least one, to respond with respect not to me, to respond with respect to this House. You bring measures, you say, a reduction of 1.2 billion. Subscribe a table showing that small businesses have so much reduction, medium-sized and large enterprises. To the natural persons up to an income step so much, there is this relief, up to that, the middle class has so much relief. Bring the evidence to the House. You cannot always hide and do not answer the questions that are raised. And if you do not want to answer the questions of the Anti-Population, why do you not have the political adequacy or do not want to answer them, at least answer what has not been achieved - there are many pages - the rapporteur of the New Democracy put, what the Scientific Service of the Greek Parliament says, not the economic policy department of the SYRIZA or the FBI or other agencies conspiring against you. The Scientific Service of the Hellenic Parliament on Article 7 clearly states on page 11 ‘Beyond this, the burden imposed does not appear to be constitutionally tolerated’. Ladies and gentlemen, I imagine they will explain in detail what the Scientific Service of the Parliament says below. Also for the same article, page 13, "the proposed regulation does not appear to be in harmony with the principles of equality or proportionality" and much more, I have no time to analyse them anymore. You'll answer these issues, will you get a seat? The previous question, of course, has already been answered by the Minister for Finance. He has responded with an interview with his favorite "SKAI", he has responded with an interview on 1-11, where Mr Stagiras clearly says: "Those who have an income of up to 8,500 euros will have a 20% tax burden. Those who have more than EUR 26 000 will see a one-digit percentage.' It doesn't say how much to assume 1%, 2%, 3%. Those with over 26,000 euros. What some executives tell you middle class, because some executives tell you middle class to a limit of income, some say another. We respect your internals, we do not interfere. "For small and medium-sized enterprises there will be a benefit of 41%." This is where the Minister is not approaching reality. And I'm presenting it in the Minutes with the relevant publication. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Tryphoon Alexiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is not about reality, because it is not about small and medium-sized enterprises, it is about large and very large businesses, and I will prove to you later, precisely this point. Because all the resources for tax evasion, which you read in the bill, are not primarily for small and medium-sized enterprises, it does not concern poor and popular incomes, it concerns the holders and it is only natural why you do so. We are, however, coming to what you were saying in the election and in what you are doing after-elections, because you are constantly restraining the classic argument about what we have done since 1915, forgetting to mention why we have followed this policy since 1915. Why have you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, along with other parties, led the country to bankruptcy, led the country to economic catastrophe, led the country to specific economic, social, political data, and blame us for taking steps to save the country? But let us remember what you said. Let us remember what you said a year ago at 11-12-18, what Mr Stavros and Mr Besiropoulos said as the relevant sectoral directors. I'll submit the relevant information to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u93	Excuse me for a moment, Mr. Colleague, for interrupting, but I have to announce a school or they'll leave. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty students and students and three educational attendants from the 3rd Acharnon High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Please, Mr. Comrade, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u94	So I remind you of what he told us in December 2018, on 11-12-2018, Mr Stavros and Mr Vesyropoulos, criticising our own tax policy. They blamed us for the so-called 'unjust' twenty-nine SYRIZA taxes, blamed us for these taxes and it is very interesting, ladies and gentlemen, that all this phrase was something that ended in the elections. We don't hear anything after the election about it. We hear nothing about abolishing even one of these twenty-nine unfair taxes. One of us got caught up and we cut him off.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u95	A little patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u96	And I say specifically what you blame us for imposing a special tax on electronic cigarettes. There was a new product on the Greek market. Anyone who knows basic tax lessons knows that when a product is imported it must enter a tariff class and be taxed. That's what we did with a new product and they come and blame us. So you're going to abolish this tax burden? You blame us at point 22 for imposing a tax on short-term housing leases. You have accused us of this when we came to deal with an existing situation in the field of taxation and when you yourself in this bill with other provisions you come to add to that tax. So you're going to abolish that tax? And because you are not even watching one part of the New Democracy what another says, you want to show that you have ecological sensitivity and that you are interested in issues of sustainable development and the environment, but you blamed us for imposing an environmental charge on the use of plastic bags. Even that's why you blamed us. So we ask you: will you abolish one of the twenty-eight most unfair taxes, for which you had an election flag? Or did you say that in election, to convince someone? Unfortunately, however, you did not only speak of the election. Because Mr. Stakoras, with his statements on September 5, 2019, reclaims to us that since 2015, the SYRIZA Government has imposed twenty-nine new taxes on natural and legal persons. One comment, first of all. The increase in a tax is not a new tax. Another thing is the imposition of a new tax, such as electronic cigarettes or the bag, and another thing to which it refers, but let us get through that. Let's just say it was a negligence of some of your partners. But now we're going to your classic argument in relation to the issues of entrepreneurship. You want to show that we evil symbiotes are against entrepreneurship and we are against business and all that you say, while you are in favour of entrepreneurship, in favour of strengthening businesses, etc. So I read to you what a entrepreneurship body, the General Confederation of Professional Crafters of Greece, says and I shall submit the relevant text in the Minutes. "In spite of the positive direction of normalising the tax rates, the bill broadens the imbalances between small and large enterprises, between poorer and wealthier households, between managers and employees, between multinational enterprises and foreign enterprises. It is clear that the competitive advantages granted to investment from abroad potentially create conditions of unequal competition and inactivity of domestic production factors.’ You don't want to answer SYRIZA. Will you answer GSWE? GSEVE at another point says: "Netherthermore, it is decided to reduce the tax rate to 5%, as it employs less than 10% of enterprises and only facilitates the redistribution of incomes among the shareholders of larger business units. In general, it is also noted that the amount and structure of tax relief is progressively distributed for the benefit of higher income scales, be they natural persons, individual undertakings or legal persons. This fact, which is illustrated in the tables below, broadens income disparities and actually leads to a redistribution of burdens or better of the reductions in favour of the most prosperous parts of the population.’ Because, Mr Amyras, you have said too much about what position the agencies take - do not rush, do we have more to say - how do you say that the bodies were so happy with your bill, while here the GSE is fully performing what you say? And it's not just GSEE. I will submit in the Minutes another document from the Panhellenic Real Estate Owner Federation, which clearly and in a distinctive title reads: "Foreword: Love only in middle-class words". And he says that "the middle class seeks the slightest bit of tax relief under the provisions of the tax bill submitted for discussion in Parliament". You have not even convinced bodies which have been against our tax policy for many years, for certain reasons, which we understand. But they were listening to the middle class and they were convinced. But that's something different. You could not even convince your friend - its own agents have said it - the newspaper 'KATHMERINI', which on her front page 21-11 clearly says and substantiates 'Medium incomes remain out of relief'. Are you going to answer them? You're not answering us. But let us now come to specific examples and start by what you have tried to argue against the SYRIZA without understanding what the essence of your political argument is. In 800,000 euros, you give a tax relief of EUR 9,100, and when we ask 'what is your political need and you reduce taxly such a large income?', your answer is terrible: 'We are only very few, it is only about four hundred'. Is that a political argument? You make a tax option to alleviate the owners and owners. And you don't do it proportionally. Lighten them without lightening other income steps or lighten those in need. Why are you doing this? The answer cannot be that 'they are few and we don't mind'. It's like what you told us about HISBIA. We told you: From the 205 million - political choice to give this tax reduction rather than to others - you gave some 24 million to those who have more than one million. And when we told you "what is the need to lighten these rich ones?" you said "but they are few, there is no problem". But we come to specific examples. Pensioners with 12,000 euros annually benefiting from 177 euros. Employee with 19,000 euros and a child, annual benefit 20 euros per year. A employee with 24,000 euros and a child, an annual benefit of zero. I would point out again that a staffer with 800,000 euros will get a 9,100 present from the government, because it needs to be strengthened. Your famous story, your famous exaggeration to overtax was only 60 minutes for the vast majority of the world. Like the famous “EUR 1 000 per child”, it was only EUR 364 for the first child. But as far as the comparison you made to SYRIZA is concerned, look at what contradiction you are: We undertook to save the country from where you drove it from 2015, with delays, omissions, mistakes, deceit, we have said so. And we had to do things with suffocating time frames and without economic and other options. But you have your choice, and from your choice you do not reduce the tax advance to 50%, you do not abolish the solidarity levy for income up to EUR 20,000, you do not reduce the tax on cooperative farmers, you do not reduce the income tax on permanent islands to up to three thousand inhabitants. I'll testify the relevant painting from SYRIZA so that no more time is lost. But as far as the general statement on measures is concerned, because we are listening to a statement on measures, thankfully Mr Stavros in the Committee on Economic Affairs has given us a very good gift. I'll testify to it in the Minutes so it won't get lost. You have been telling us so far about the many tax measures and the charges that SYRIZA has borne. So what does Mr Stavros say in the Committee on Economic Affairs on 29-11? It says: "Before the first memorandum, January to April '10, the measures were 15 billion. It wasn't the New Democracy in the government. First Memorandum, May '10, the measures were 30 billion. 15 and 30 billion in total 45 billion. The New Democracy, this party, it wasn't in the government. Second Memorandum, December of '12, and a third Memorandum of approximately 10 billion. Equivalent measures by New Democracy, SYRIZA'. Well, at least understand what the Minister of Finance says and change arguments or approach. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Treasurer Alexiades, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But we're going to specific articles, because we don't have a general tax-free... [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] You'll be out and you'll be right here. If you dare, write down speakers and go out and tell them. We are going to specific articles, because we do not have a 'yes' tax-free logic in everything, or 'no' in everything. Of course, we will be voting in favour of certain provisions. Of course, and we'll try to change some others. However, we want concrete answers from which our vote will also be judged in specific articles. And we hope that, instead of 'hard' amendments or provisions, you will give us concrete answers. Minister, in relation to Article 57, you said in the bill that there was no charge at all. I am tabling a memorandum from the Pan-Hellenic Middle Fisheries Association. I mean the fishermen. We're not talking about owners of large ships. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexiadis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Association of Coastal Fisheries shipowners in a memorandum says: "The colleagues of the outermost regions of the Aegean are guards at the border of our country. The charm you impose on us does not only put "floor plaque" on over ten thousand coastal fishermen's families, but it is a knife in our national tradition and security. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexiadis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So answer clearly: Is the tax burden on fishermen increased or the tax burden reduced, as is the case with very large companies? Please also reply to the front page, not "AUSTRIA", on the headline of "NAYTTERIC", 2-12-2019, on the issue of reductions in limitation times. In other words, for the great gift you make in tax-gatherers, smugglers, financial scams. Why are you reducing limitation times? Why do you find it difficult to do the work of the financial prosecutors, the auditors, the Economic Police and all those who are trying to do their jobs in adverse conditions? I don't see much law and order on this subject. I see a lot of disgrace and a lot of lawlessness. Also, for Rule 38 - we have also put it to the committee - no answer! Do we want an answer to Article 38: Is it difficult for tax-raisers, smugglers, economic fraud to release accounts, assets, etc., which have been made for specific offences? Also, Minister, answer for specific articles. Answering the issues raised by the Panhellenic Federation of Medical Visitors and Pharmaceutical Officers - not the pharmaceuticals, workers are, members of the GSC are - for specific issues. I am tabling this question, too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexiadis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Also an answer to Article 67 on the subject raised by the Panhellenic Association of Economic Inspectors, where in previous bill you have given increases, and very large increases, to the Golden Boys of certain companies, who had a degree, some have not had a degree - now what to do? these are details - you come to those who have audit work and audit procedures in progress to make wage reductions. Answer: Do we have wage reductions and benefits reductions here or not? At least, the Members from the Treasury who come to take their seats here, whether they are in ministerial seats or down, will be able to tolerate the reduction of incomes of workers at the same time as you are giving others. I understand the matter of time and I want to participate in a substantial dialogue and respect the time of all of you. Thank you, Mr President, for the equivalency of time with the spokesman of the New Democracy. We want to state that we will give a battle today and tomorrow in the House. We would like there to be another time, both at the level of social consultation and at the level of the Committee on Economic Affairs, for a three hundred-page bill. We will give the battle. We've been placed on it. Be diligent in your presence in the House. We will give the battle and inside and out of the House to stop this anti-popular tax policy of yours. Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u97	The list is closed with the second rapporteur. We move to the special speaker from the Change Movement, Mr. Arvanitides Georgios.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear SYRIZA's rapporteur, I think you are entitled to the title of the most tax-fixing post-multiple government in order to obtain a title for you too, as you charge so much for the old political system. You've been the most taxing government of So, of course, by taking away from the pockets of the Greeks what they had and did not have tax in order to balance the numbers, you have created the stock, which the New Democracy has now - because you have not slowly prevented, my dear fellow Member, from creating wealth to make tax reliefs - it makes tax reliefs, remove burdens from the "platforms" of the Greek people. What you have not done, however, is this bill to be the lever of promoting the development of the place. And here you will be judged. Today, there may be this criticism from us, that you do not dare with the tax bill to make such a policy. But we'll count the numbers in the next period. And your account “reduces taxes and comes growth” I see it will collapse. Ladies and gentlemen, when the Minister of Finance spoke three weeks ago about the tax bill that would bring about a debate in the House, he talked about'surprises' and pointed out, in fact, features that 'if the institutions were finally to be convinced,' - they were probably not convinced - 'the arrangements to be introduced into the tax will be new and they will not be improvements to those already included in the bill'. So we expected something important, something subversive. But "Carbons the treasure"! No surprise. Your final tax bill does not bring anything new, it does not lead us to sustainable development, as it does not form part of a comprehensive planning, it does not constitute a reform, it does not ultimately justify your account of radical modernisation and reforms in the tax system. In short, it is not, unfortunately, worthy of what the country needs today to liberate economic and social forces. We say that our entire tax system and policies being pursued need another perception, another approach. Unfortunately, any individual positive arrangements do not have the potential to bring about a shock development project, as the operators you call for in their positions have pointed out. Unfortunately, the bill you bring as a government is far from the barbaric title "Forum reform with a development dimension for Greece of tomorrow". It is the corresponding development that came to the House and here you admitted that it is just regulation and "creams". It is far more than the real needs of society and of the citizens, who, unfortunately, have suffered all these burdens in the ten-year crisis. The tax bill, which you are bringing us, ladies and gentlemen, is, unfortunately, based on sterile accounting. I'd dare say it's written with the same software, the software we know, the SYRIZA software, exactly the same philosophy. I say this because you continue, Minister, to maintain the high surpluses, that is to say, once again, the low and medium-income incomes will be paid by overtaxing and, unfortunately, forbidding to produce new incomes. I am afraid, Minister, that when you are on the point of announcing, perhaps in a year from now, the reduction of the overcrowding of 3.5% might be too late. With the risk that the global economy will be orbited by a recession, another environment will have been created. You had to do it, negotiate it, do it. It is also continuing to increase indirect taxes on direct taxes, a phenomenon which we all know affects low incomes by means of austerity. And this will grow, will grow in 2020, according to the budget figures you have submitted for next year. You don't say a word about private sector workers. They have paid the price of the crisis more than all the social groups. And you don't have any settings for better handling them. You do not institutionalise any incentive to create new jobs and to promote investment in modern technologies, such as Blockchain technology. Malta and Estonia have gone through specific legislative frameworks to attract such investments. It is not enough, however, to invoke them. It's not enough for him to make a proper ministry. This must be done in the bills that we bring and the policies that we choose. We do not see any preparation for encouragement and expansion in the fourth industrial revolution of Greek businesses. You also insist on ignoring, like the previous government, the modern ways of facilitating tax relief for businesses, which are successful investments. There's no welfare here too. All this was SYRIZA's tax recipe. This, unfortunately, is what you follow. No predictions, no numbers, no stockpile, no help to some people. And that's just enough, because the others were worse and had deficits. Finally, you make the difference, Minister, by defining the middle-class as those who have an income of 6,000 euros a year or 500 euros a month. Even Mrs Bakoyannis was a more socialist and well defined the middle class to those who have an income of over 1,500 euros. However, whatever definition, what is certain is that social mobility in the middle-class is limited and social inequalities are widened. More easily and more often, that is, one is going down and far more difficult, to a lesser extent, to rise to the scale of prosperity. This trend we want to overthrow to the Change Movement. This trend must be reversed by our choices and by expressing young, non-preferential ones, which we have successfully done in the 1980s and 1990s, despite which errors, objections and omissions. We want to express the young, non-preferential, middle-class and modern demands of the new generation, such as intensifying efforts to tackle climate change, adapting to the demands of the 4th industrial revolution, issues of merit and equality, but also defending labour rights. On matters of merit, ladies and gentlemen of the government, I think you started with a very low degree. In the Change Movement, then, we have been heading for all of this for a year now we have tabled a specific development bill, with a tax system that is a key pillar for sustainable development and social cohesion. In particular, the backbone of this project has been institutionally reflected in three proposals for legislation that we have tabled. The first was November 2018 and was entitled ‘First package of economic recovery and social justice measures’, the second in December 2018 entitled ‘National demographic policy - Family support’ and the last in February 2019 entitled ‘Removing the voted reduction of duty-free – Restoring collective agreements and determining minimum wages by the social partners and creating new jobs’. The government of SYRIZA, however, did not even dare to discuss these proposals, showing its poverty in strategic planning for the future Greece. In this context we have again tabled an amendment in this regard, which prejudges our crucial choices for the gradual transformation of the Greek tax system. The reason why we insist is this: there is still today, where we are, a little time and opportunity to change the points of the bill, so that we can actually bring positive surprises to the citizens. If you really wish, ladies and gentlemen of the government, to give green light to development, then accept our amendment. You have said that, moreover, you want the synergy and cooperation of all the parties. Here's a chance! Don't you dare! The measures we are proposing are designed to transform our tax system from, above all, tax evasion - and even unfair - into a modern, pro-developmental tool based on the country's productive potential and aimed at social progress. Among our proposals are the reduction of the rates of Added Value Tax to restore social injustice, causing an imbalance of indirect and direct taxes. On the basis of the data on the country's tax revenues since 2015, there has been a continuous trend towards increasing indirect taxes at the expense of direct taxes. This growth order is expected to peak in 2020 and the proportion of indirect and direct taxes to go from 1.1 to 1.5. This is because direct taxes remain stable while indirect tax revenue continues to increase. I note, in fact, that our country shows the worst such proportion in the euro area, according to the available comparative data. Indirect taxation is primarily borne by small and medium-sized households and, of course, is considered the most socially unfair. Therefore, a direct change in this tax policy mix is required. With the proposed provisions of our amendment, which I hope you will adopt, we are proposing to reduce from 1-1-2020 the increased rate, the reduced and excessive VAT rate by one percentage point. From 24%, 13% and 6%, then, 23%, 12% and 5%. This is how a first step is taken to restore social injustice to the detriment of the less privileged and a direct relief of the people's strata comes through reducing the cost of basic goods in food and energy. Next proposal we are bringing is the abolition of the Special Contribution of Solidarity to natural persons. I would remind you here that the reasons for introducing the Special Solidarity Contribution have passed. Its gradual abolition, combined with the reduction of rates, will relieve the incomes of the middle class and give a breath, which is needed by micro and small businesses to maintain and - why not? - to increase jobs. The same wavelength is moving our proposal to abolish the trade fee. We have repeatedly stressed - and the tradesmen and businesses have called for this - the gradual abolition of the fee of trade to contribute to a fair tax treatment of businesses. At the same time, in order to see, at last, a drastic reduction in unemployment rates, we are bringing the proposal for incentives to work by means of a further reduction in taxation. In particular, we propose that for each additional full-time job, there should be the incentive for tax reduction to be increased by 50%, that is, for every 100 euros paid by the company for newly recruited full-time workers, that the company be exempted from taxation for EUR 150 in certain categories. All these interventions will acquire added and continuous amortisation if they are accompanied by increased rates of tax depreciation. Here, let me insist on our best preparation for the 4th industrial revolution and climate change. The evidence shows that artificial intelligence, machines that learn themselves and the Internet de facto form a new technological and economic reality, leading us to the period of data capitalism. At the same time, climate change has become a climate crisis and endangers the sustainability of the modern economic model. We therefore have an obligation to prevent negative developments from combining these two challenges. We therefore propose that, as a first step in adapting the Greek economy to the above, the possibility of institutionalising by the Minister of Finance, following an opinion, high rates of tax depreciation for categories of high technological investment, which relate to adapting the production process to the 4th industrial revolution, to the challenges of climate change and the climate crisis and to the need to protect the natural environment. And since we are talking about a natural environment, it could not be missing from our proposal for the people who live and work in the natural environment, for the people of the primary sector, for those who are needed. the promotion of production and the reduction of taxation, the collective organisations of farmers and, of course, the exclusion of agricultural parcels from the supplementary ENPY. In particular, we propose 9% rate of tax on profits from an individual agricultural enterprise with taxable income of up to 10,000 and 13% for excess taxable income. We also propose that the payments under the common agricultural policy, as well as any kind of agricultural compensation, should be considered tax-free, with the exception of the amount of the single payment of more than EUR 20,000 and, indeed, the amounts collected from the direct payment tax. And I mean over 20,000 euros. These amounts should be directed exclusively to further strengthen the establishment of producer groups and their organisations. Continuing with the primary sector, we raise the issue of professional farmers who deliver their agricultural products to producer groups and agricultural cooperatives, of which they are members, so that the revenue from these deliveries is considered reduced by 35%. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I will also take time from dentistry, Mr President. Also to farmers under the special VAT system, Article 41 of the 2850, who deliver their agricultural products to producer groups and agricultural cooperatives, of which they are members, we propose that a further 5% of the VAT to be paid. There needs to be an integrated positive approach to the agricultural sector and a final and irrevocable exception to the value of rights in the fields outside the town plan or settlement from the calculation of the additional HISA tax should be reintroduced. That's nothing new. On the contrary, it was true from the outset before the SYRIZA government's institutional regressions on the subject began. We have said repeatedly that if the primary sector is not supported, we do not expect sustainable growth. The countryside is there waiting. And really, where are the promises to abolish the special tax on agricultural oil, promised by Mr Mitsotakis, the Prime Minister, a few months ago to farmers in the Larissa vineyard? Apart from farmers, however, young entrepreneurs and professionals must be supported. Here we are proposing the three-year full income tax exemption and contributions for the main pension sector and 50% for the next two years. In this way, we will be able to achieve a reduction in the high unemployment of young people and the resurgence of the leak of scientific potential abroad. In simple terms, we support a business and a professional under the initial and critical period of stabilisation of his activity. We are also proposing the introduction of a special bank account - we will not get tired of calling it - professionals and businesses active in the secondary and tertiary sectors. Instead of seeing measures aimed at auctioning and confiscations of what professionals and businesses are making, we are proposing that a special non-confidential business bank account be introduced immediately to help them to function smoothly and to enable them to fulfil their obligations towards workers and third parties. Those active in the market realize how important this option is. This has been a constant request from operators, but mainly from the real economy itself, in order to make payments to workers, taxes, contributions and suppliers. Furthermore, this will give SMEs a more incentive to make use of the electronic transactions tool, reducing the possible side effects of the increase by 30% real income of the required amount of costs by electronic means of payments, as provided for in the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, all these measures we are proposing are not only fair and necessary for society and citizens. These are benchmarks and middle-class support pillars. A middle class that with this bill New Democracy leads her to pay again the marble, like SYRIZA. And the middle class had not set it to 500 euros in election, Minister, so that people would know and weigh their vote and their choice. Where are your election promises for incentives to bring young people back into new well-paid jobs in an economy that would grow by 4%? For this bill, nothing shows that you are creating the conditions to challenge the return of our young people and their recruitment to Greek businesses. And you don't do it either by measures or by example, as your last choices showed. On the contrary, you bring a bill that is counter-developing with semi-metres and maneuvers, which, of course, really lighten unreliable burdens from the backs of the Greek people. We are living the paradox on the one hand by the government to call on foreign investors to prefer us as a country and bring their tax home here and, on the other hand, ignores the young scientists who have left all these years. Good and positive measures to assist enterprises in the use of cars of the latest anti-pollution technology. Sadly, however, you are tight to unrealistic about tax exemptions for savings and energy upgrading of buildings. And you have already announced that in the next seven years it takes 500 million if we want to catch the targets for environmental buildings, which save energy according to the ECHR. Where's all this? They don't look in your bill. You're targeting. How to achieve this, you do not announce or institutionalise. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude with one observation, which explains the main reason why we are voting against this bill. With what we have heard about how the government perceives the middle-class and how it expects citizens and businesses to be reduced within this tax bill, the reformist person of the New Democracy, is unfortunately fabulously blurred. And I'm afraid we won't start going into a period of your own delusion after the delusion we've experienced all these years from the previous government. We will be here stable to highlight the illusions of each side, to make a serious and responsible opposition with proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u99	The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. The JRC is voting against this specific government tax reform. And it is against it, because it is precisely because the government takes an unfair tax system and tax reform that makes it even more unfair, despite what has been said by the rapporteur in New Democracy. Is this assessment of the JRC an exaggeration? But let us see more specifically the issues. According to the Government - and here we must recognise that it is true - fiscal reform and, in general, the tax system must be a tool for development. So, as the government has said in the report, the government's firm will is to further reduce the tax rates for legal persons, not only the fall from 28% to 24%, but even further. For what purpose? In order to attract capital, to attract investment. And this choice of government is not just New Democracy's government. In SYRIZA the same choice was made for the development of the tax system. And the Change Movement today is king’s, even more wants to be a development tool. What kind of circumstances is this all about? Firstly, it is done in conditions of tax competition in our wider region and in general in the European Union and at international level, with tax havens, with countries with very low rates of taxation on capital, business groups. So this tax competition leads to ever greater reductions in the tax rates of business groups. Secondly, it is under the circumstances of a given budgetary policy in our country and in total in the European Union. And this given budgetary policy is nothing but surplus budgets in the European Union and in Greece the primary surpluses of 3.5% and 2.5% by 2060. These primary surpluses - the bloody surpluses, as the people called them - are paid for by people's incomes. The result of this logic can be nothing but the fact that an increasingly smaller part of the total tax revenue pie comes from businesses. And this part of the continuous reductions in tax rates will become more and more small. So what's left? It remains an increasing proportion of total tax revenues to be borne by people's incomes. This definition of tax injustice is even more pronounced if we look at the cost side. Because one could say that they have a greater share of taxes, but they also have greater social benefits. What do we see, however, in practice? We have a freezing or even a reduction in social costs in conditions of even enormous shortages in education, health, conditions of collapse in the realm of public health and hospitals. Of course, here we do not want to open up the parenthesis and raise deeper issues, such as the unfair capitalist system, which results in the expropriation of part of the socially produced wealth, that is, the wealth produced by workers from capitalists, from capitalists. But let's stay on this one. Don't go deeper. So tax justice is incompatible with tax competition. One will say: "Well, that's what the JRC says. It may be an arbitrary conclusion of the JRC.’ But there is a very recent study - which the government has taken advantage of in this tax reform - of the internationalization of a well-known Think Tank, which has nothing to do with the views of the JRC. In April 2018, a study was published, ‘Income tax in Greece’. In this study, it makes a comparative analysis of five scenarios. What is the result of all these five scenarios, which are examined by the study? The result of all five scenarios is in Table 25. I'll testify. All scripts show the following. Where the system - this scenario is - gives incentives for entrepreneurship, growth, becomes both unfair and unfair. The script three, in fact, is obvious. It says that it greatly strengthens economic efficiency and growth, and at the same time it is the most unfair tax system, which is in place. There's nowhere to be matched. Where it is taxly effective, it is also unfair. That is what the study of the interna tional study, which literalizes the JRC’s assessment. I am presenting this table in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] A second account of the government: once the development process is strengthened, investment will come more and we will also have better jobs. But unfortunately, for the government itself, reality is much tougher, much more inconsistent, and the government is crushing. Why? Take tourism, for example, where it did not have the consequences of the crisis experienced by other sectors of the economy, instead it had a development course throughout the previous period, but this development course of foreign tourists, revenues was not accompanied by an improvement in the position of workers but, on the contrary, we had a deterioration in the position of workers employed in the tourism sector and especially in hotels. It is not only the very reality that is crushing this government position, but it is the same government policy that throws it into the basket of unusables. What did the government bring about just a week ago? The PPC bill. What did he put in there? He put that newly recruited PPC workers will work under worse working conditions and pay conditions than they are already working. So the new jobs that will be created in PPC will not be better but will be worse than the existing ones. However, in today's plan we are debating today, there is no provision in which there is, in essence, a reduction in taxation on compensation for voluntary exit, that is, for the redundancies of workers, because voluntary exit is a dismissal of a well paid worker and a replacement for workers under worse conditions and conditions. How, then, do both apply? They can't be both. Thirdly, they are for the sake of debate, they have not yet begun, they were in the committees, the burden-sharing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u101	Mr Colleague, if you will excuse me, but I would like to make a statement to this House here. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, forty-one students and three educational sessions from the 6th New Smyrna High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Colleague, thank you very much. You have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u102	I was on the third lead. It is really deplorable that the debate in the committees - and it will perhaps also be held in plenary - on the sharing of the memorandum burdens. What were they saying? That the PASOK government, the first Memorandum with the first Memorandum imposed a tax burden of EUR 300,000,000,000 and then came the PASOK - New Democracy government, and imposed EUR 10,000,000,000, and finally only the SYRIZA government put 10,000,000 euros with the third Memorandum. But all this works cumulatively, so what is the result? It is 50,000,000,000 euros and the vast majority of 50,000,000,000 euros fell into ordinary mortgages, in popular layers. From this point of view, whatever relief the bill brings is nothing but a drop in my ocean. From this point of view, it is understandable that SYRIZA's difficulty to criticise the government for the tax bill, because they speak for themselves the facts of the government, of SYRIZA and of the previous governments. Here, allow me to quote what these things are. Recently, on September 29, 2019, an analysis was published by Mr. Giannitsis, a well-known political official who had nothing to do with the JRC. So, comparing the 2014 and 2017 figures, what did Mr. Giannitsis get out? It has drawn the following important conclusions, in our opinion. Firstly, that the category of population has increased with less than EUR 10,000 annual income, so poverty and that is the first one. The second is that the category of this population with incomes of over 200,000 euros has increased, that is, the richest and the poorest. This is the first prisoner. Let's go to the second prisoner who made it and is important: the taxable income for this period of people's incomes up to EUR 10,000 has been reduced and at the same time the average tax on this category has increased, while inversely the taxable income in the category of EUR 200,000 and much more than EUR 500,000 and above, that is, we are talking about 0.09% of the population, not only increased taxable income, but at the same time the magical burden has been reduced. Here is what the business of SYRIZA's tax policy is, the richer, and with fewer taxes, and the poorer, and with more taxes. Of course, the New Democracy is coming today to speak and say that it brings down the popular strata, which is nothing but ash in the eyes of the world and an effort to cover up the reactionary, classic character of tax reform. Unfortunately, Mr Amyras for you - rather for the people, not for you - the glass that will drink has congested rather than water. In this respect, what about all these procedures? The tax system is more unfair because we have redistribution. Be careful, we have redistribution from the least poor to the richest. The government says it has found a financial area with these measures EUR 1.2 billion. Yes, sir. But where does this financial area come from? Since the overtaxation of the popular strata. In other words, it pays the people to make this financial area. How does the government distribute him? With her own figures, one of those 1,2 billion euros. Only by means of measures to reduce tax rates for businesses and reduce the tax rates for distributed profits the company will benefit from EUR 615,000, i.e. over 50% of the budget area paid by the people will you think about business, owners and owners. So here's what your class redistribution is. At the same time, there is this regulation, which you put evil means, that with 30% of the evidence to be covered, so that the 22% penalty by electronic transactions is not put in place to establish tax-free will generate new revenues of 557 000 euros. Indirect taxation is primarily anti-grass tax, and even so does the Scientific Committee of Parliament itself and says that this provision - which is not a patent of the government and SYRIZA - is "extremely unconstitutional". On page 11 of the report on the bill it takes off this provision "extremely unconstitutional" because it violates, as it says on page 13, "the rules of equality and proportionality" and, in fact, it works blackmail. What is the result of this tax reform? The state budget figures for 2020 show that this is a step in the right direction. What do we have? Increase in tax revenue as a whole. The tax revenue for 2020 will be increased, says the government, by EUR 733,000. Let's see who's gonna pay these extra incomes? What categories of taxes are being increased? Indirect taxes are being increased, anti-popular taxes of EUR 638,000, EUR 84,000, EUR 84,000, EUR receipts from taxes, from HNPH, despite the moderate reduction, and thus an increase in objective values will be at the expense of this medium-term reduction and, secondly, income from the taxation of natural persons will be increased by EUR 433,000,000. But something's falling. What is it that's falling? Of course, it doesn't take much of a thought for everyone to understand it. The tax revenues that will come from businesses by EUR 466,000,000 are reduced, despite the fact that they will have increased profitability for 2019. So here is what the result of anti-grass policy is. Thus, without being called into question by anyone, the government's tax reform leads to a less and less involvement of business groups in tax revenues, permanently simulates all the extraordinary taxes that have been introduced by the Memorandums, ENPIA, the end of solidarity, a fee of trade, despite the fact that the Memorandums have formally ended. All this, of course, needs to be seen on the basis of the overall impact rather than a fragment. What does the overall impact say? Let us see, then, the reductions in wages over time, the reductions in pensions, because they are based on tax revenues. Let's see the increase in the participation of the people in medicine, education, health. Let us see the increase in fees, because this is tax by the municipalities too. On the substance, what is all of you reaching New Democracy, SYRIZA, a Change Movement? You get to the point about the same income, about the people's income, to pay five times a tax. To be taxed five times. Because the same income is taxed as income tax. The same income is shown by indirect taxation, which has already been taxed. The same income arises - which has also been taxed with income tax and with HISPIA - and consumption tax and HISPIA. The same income as the tax on consumption income, HISPIA, results in the end of solidarity. The same income is derived from the fees paid. Five times. People's income is taxed on the contrary, business groups - let us see them as well - are deducted and taxed only their net profits and all at reduced rates. At the same time, there are special tax regimes for the price of capital. Voluntary - it says - participation in tax revenue. Patent of SYRIZA and the previous governments. There are triangular transactions, there are tax havens, offshore companies. Here, then, is how the great wealth of capital is taxed and at the same time in this bill there are, however, very important tax gifts for parts of the capital that the government wants to support, such as speeding up the real estate market. That is to say, to raise real estate in less and less hands, such as the tax exemption of the various companies active in the stock exchange, UCITS active in private insurance, in order to speed up private insurance in combination with tax overturns. Exemption essentially of offshore companies and in particular offshore companies involved in shipping companies. So, the very big properties, the expensive properties that belong to such offshore, let them go! The transfer of shares, therefore, and business, is not taxed on goodwill. Incentives to tax dwellings are also given. That is why the JRC is talking about a fundamentally unpopular class tax reform. And from this point of view, as a party, we are clean. We see it as having to pay the capital, we have to pay the monopolies, the owners and the holders, through the increase in tax rates and not by the reduction in the various gifts, the various incentives, which are through the abolition of the various special tax regimes and the special tax exemptions they have. And to get rid of the whole popular income tax that meets the needs of satisfying all the needs. To get this out of taxation completely. All the needs which serve the Greek people must be covered and not taxed on this income and, of course, anti-popular indirect taxation must also be abolished, because it is excessively burdensome for the people. On this basis, Mr President, I conclude that the JRC is voting against this tax bill in principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u103	The special speaker of the Greek Solution, Mr. Vassiliou Viliardos, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u104	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we will start with our surprise when Germany is taboo for the current government, which we have clearly seen when we asked some questions to the Committee on European Affairs that were all completely unanswered. Our questions were as follows: Firstly, is the problem of Germany's major trade surpluses, which causes deficits and debts to its partners on your own initiative in the European Union? In this regard, it is known that there are no surpluses in the current account, more than 6% of a country's GDP, as no budget deficits are allowed for more than 3%, when Germany has exceeded 8%, while in 2018 it was 7.6%. Secondly, is the European Union threatening us with sanctions because we are the only country in Europe that has not claimed compensation for the pollution scandal, the famous Dieselgate, from the German automotive industry, when even Germany has been compensated by its own automotive industries? Thirdly, are electronic auctions applied in another country of the European Union in accordance with the same procedure as in Greece? Here we doubt whether these actions with which the private property of the Greeks is being created are compatible with Community law, and unfortunately, the Greeks have accepted it without protest, like many others in the past, by beating their heads. Fourthly, is the European Union no longer financing us for immigration after the EUR 2.2 billion that we have received so far? Most of them, of course, the NGOs took it. In this respect, we have not referred to the violent settlement of our country, nor to the fact that it is planned to turn into the garbage site of Europe that has closed its borders with us, entangled the waves of immigrants within us. While perhaps it blackmails us not to react, with a lever of pressure as usual our debt. Then we want to emphasise that we will always vote on any laws that are in the right direction, even if they are incomplete, in our own view, recommendations. Like the question of Article 86 of the Constitution which we want, as it goes without saying, to be completely abolished, but the removal of the depreciation deadline was a step in the right direction. In the tax bill now, we are going to start with the issue of the taxation of laundry and the position of the Greek Solution, which is the full exemption from the taxation of mothers with more than three children. Besides, the amount is negligible in Greece today, while it will certainly help to combat our country's demographic problem. Furthermore, with the need to abolish the trade fee, by reducing the advance payment by businesses, at least 50% rather than 95% by 100%, by abolishing the special solidarity levy and by creating a tax free reserve for investment in enterprises. Furthermore, at the first meeting of the committee, we mentioned that the government continues its urgent and complex procedures, such as the public consultation, where its tax text was forty-four pages and the sixty-eight articles in seventy-two pages bill. We continued with our position to withdraw Articles 20, 21, 23, 53, 54, 55 and 56 because they speed up the sport of Greece in progress. In this case, the following: Article 20 exemption from value-added tax for foreign companies, offshore, that is to say. This is a scandalous favor for offshore companies or European companies in general in terms of avoiding taxation. This article shall not be subject to capital gains tax when the transfer of shares exceeds 10% of the company and is held for thirty-six months. It refers here to acquisitions of companies in which it is common practice to take place through offshore holdings in companies in Cyprus, Luxembourg or elsewhere. For example, the transfer of the ‘ALPHA’ television station by Mr. Kontomenas through his companies in Cyprus and the Vardinoyannis group. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In this case, the gains of major entrepreneurs are not taxed, which we consider to be unacceptable, especially for a bankrupt country, which excessively taxs its ordinary citizens. As regards Article 21, it refers to an exemption for bonds. Paragraphs 1 to 3 shall be exempted from taxes by foreigners buying bonds from banks or companies. We consider it unacceptable, when everyone else is charged with taxes. At the same time, paragraph 4 provides that taxes will be paid by bonds managed and not charged by issuers, which may be banks. This law is a facility for red loan securitisations with the HRAKLIS project, which is expected to take place against foreign capital in the unacceptable way that it seems to be launched. In this regard, while the State takes the risk that the responsibility for their service will be borne by shapes outside the banks, which we do not know who will supervise them. Thus, if there is a weakness of payments, the State will have to cover their debts, while the fixed assets will obviously be maintained by the banks, outside the jurisdiction of the State. It is certainly a disgrace to our country. In Article 23, now, there will be no tax on rights (royalties) or interest on interest on one company to another related, which is more than 25%. This may, however, lead to a legal avoidance of taxes on multinational companies, as in the case of 'Ikea' in the Netherlands and elsewhere or 'STARBUCKS'. We are therefore opposed to the vote on this article. In Article 53, the tax on immovable property investments is set at 10% of the European Central Bank's interest rate, increased by one percentage point, and is calculated on the average of their investments at current prices. Today, however, we have negative or zero interest rates, which will probably continue. These companies will therefore pay zero taxes when the tax for other companies is normally 15%, on the basis of Article 15 of Law 3091/2002. So, basically, the door opens in speculative capital to buy the houses of the Greeks, either through auctions or in other ways, without even benefiting the public. Unjust and mainly provocative law under the present circumstances. Article 54 requires the same tax as that of the previous article and for the mutual property, so our view is negative. Article 55 applies the same to the previous two Articles, since the same tax applies to portfolio investment companies, although in this case, as we are talking about investments in companies that have been taxed at profit and profit level, it could be accepted, at least in respect of the part of the profit from dividends, but not in the profit from goodwill after the transfers. Article 56 relates to the method of taxation of total investment funds on Securities, known as UCITS. It's the same tax as the above portfolio companies, so we have exactly the same view, negative. Furthermore, we have mentioned the fact that the special taxation of Greek businesses or Greek workers, mainly foreign scientists, is not being considered anywhere as an incentive to repatriate. Unfortunately, once again, special taxation is being tackled only by pensioners abroad and those who want to invest in Greece over 500 thousand euros. Our proposal is to offer a lower tax rate, “flat tax”, horizontal, for example in 10% for scientists and executives repatriated to Greece, and apply for five years. This should also concern foreign income. We believe that the absence of the corresponding provision is an important omission, since it would provide incentives for reversal of Brain and would help companies to attract gifted Greeks from abroad. Cyprus, Spain and Portugal have applied similar provisions, which concern not only the income accruing abroad but also the income resulting from the domestic tax, with a flat tax for a certain number of years. We therefore consider that exemptions from national incomes significantly reduce the number of natural persons who are candidates for their transfer. However, having as a central objective the existence of a fair, simple and stable tax system that supports economic development and restricts both tax evasion and avoidance, we propose in our programme revenues minus the costs of making taxable income. In this way, transparency is achieved at all levels, avoiding tax evasion and simplifying the current demonic tax regime. On the other hand, this method, of course, has many benefits for the state, because it collects the VAT it would not have received, since it creates confidence in the citizens that the more costs they have will be their taxation. Here we have to note that Switzerland's tax code is only sixty pages. In the rest, now, the following. In Article 1, an amendment to Article 4 of the Code on Tax Residence. It makes sense and meets in most countries. The problem is, however, implementation in practice. How will the living space be controlled in the country? Who's gonna control him? In Article 2, addition of Article 5A to the Code on Alternative Income Tax resulting from foreign natural persons carrying their tax residence in Greece. In this regard, the notion of resident non-resident, which seems to be international fashion in the era of globalised capital, is being introduced as well in Europe, Cyprus, Italy, Malta, etc. Our reservations are moral, since they facilitate the transfer of tax bases and possibly tax evasion. In any case, a method of monitoring those who live in Greece, as regards where the money came from, the security of the country, etc. should be adopted. In Article 6, now, when it comes to reducing the tax on income from paid services, we have stressed that the reduction is small, because the greater fall in the tax rate is at low incomes - the reduction is 9% from 22% - which is covered by tax-free anyway, in most cases only EUR 17 per year, which does not even cover inflation. On the other hand, the rates are essentially the same as the average income, which constitute the main source of taxation. We therefore concluded that this government also leads, in turn, to the middle-class that is left in the scaffolding, despite its opposing promises by election and post-election. In Article 7, we note that this is again an article in favour of the banks. How, in fact, will the 30% rate be covered by electronic payments when a large number of Greeks have either housing loans or rent? Our proposal is to remain as at 20% maximum or to count loans and rents, as well as to exempt those who have completed the sixty-seventh year of their age. Article 16, now, concerns a tax deduction for expenditure relating to the reception of services for energy, functional and aesthetic upgrading of buildings. Why should the tax reduction of 40% be related only to the provision of services and not to materials - equipment incorporating the energy or aesthetic upgrading of the building, let alone 60% of the total expenditure relates to materials - equipment and the remaining 40% to work? Why does this provision relate only to immovable property belonging to natural persons and not to legal persons? Aren't you aware that most of the property belonging to legal persons are the country's most energetic buildings that concern the tertiary sector? Why don't you connect the energy upgrade of a property to the corresponding discount of HISPIA, so that you can actually give the taxpayers an incentive to make such an upgrade? With such an incentive, however, building activity will be increased and fuel imports will be reduced accordingly, due to energy savings and energy efficiency of buildings, with what this means in terms of a positive contribution to tackling climate change. We would also like to mention the time when business losses are cleared up, its extension from five to ten years. Obviously it is not their responsibility to destroy the memorials that have been caused in the country, which of course continue and will continue. As far as Article 43 is concerned, we have proposed the following: firstly, the interest rate should be the same as that which is borrowed by the public and, secondly, the possibility of accession should apply twice. In any case, the fall in the tax rate from 28% to 24% is a drop in the ocean and will have no benefit for the state. If it is not competitive with the countries around, combined with the increase in the Public Investment Programme to at least 10 billion a year, it will not help Greece at all. We close with Article 59 on arrangements for the establishment in Greece of offices or branches of foreign shipping companies. It appears that this article facilitates the establishment of shipping services companies, as proposed by the Greek Solution two years ago in the programme. Of course, we have no objection, since we support the development of a maritime complex, the cluster, in Piraeus, with potential revenues of up to EUR 18 billion, according to a study by the Piraeus Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Compared to the Dutch shipping complex, mainly in Rotterdam and Amsterdam, it has revenues of more than EUR 50 billion, while, of course, Greece with the largest fleet internationally and with one of the largest ports in Europe and the Mediterranean, it can and must go beyond it. However, you must pay attention to the operation of 'COSCO' in the Port of Piraeus so that the same things that have been found in Naples, that is, the smuggling of Chinese products, the installation of the Chinese mafia in Piraeus and not just the increase in crime and so on. Furthermore, I would remind you that according to 'POLITICO', the Anti-Fraud Authority of the European Union, OLAF threatened a fine of 200 million Greece on the grounds that it was not preventing large-scale tax evasion through the port of Piraeus, obviously by Chinese criminal gangs importing smuggling products with the participation of probably COSCO. I'm putting down the report on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes this article, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In addition, OLAF has completed its investigation into the illegal import of undercutting textiles and footwear to Greece from China for the period 1-1-2015 to 31-5-2018, finding that the Greek customs offices lost 202,3 million euros. In this case, it is clear that the unfair competition of Greek products is another deadly blow to the Greek productive fabric. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Kriton - Ilias Arsenis, a special speaker of Mera25, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u106	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, July 7, 2019 New Democracy officially wins elections, promising a substantial reduction in primary surpluses, bloody surpluses and over-taxation. Today, December 5, 2019: Already since the first days of New Democracy governance, any debate on primary surpluses has been forgotten. The government has been left, it has been satisfied by the creditors' statements that they are considering a reduction in the primary surpluses after 2021 to about 2%, when we all know that after 2021, that is, in 2022, the primary surplus is reduced to 2.2%. So we are talking about a satisfaction with this possible future reduction of 0.2% of the primary surpluses. As regards overtaxation in this tax bill we are looking at, instead of a rapid reduction in taxes, this huge burden of the crisis, what we have is their normalisation. It is now the new regularity of these taxes, regardless of the crisis. What this tax bill does, however, and the New Democracy is to give creditors obedience. This is also the objective of this tax bill. Not only to lenders, of course. It also gives, as in all previous bills, gifts and gifts to the large business families of this country and at the same time some crumbs to the households. Thus, they are the big companies that will get any reliefs from this bill. These are the ones who will be glad to have dividends reduced by a minimum of 10% - dividend tax - to a minimum of 5%. They will be enjoyed by reducing corporate taxation horizontally for all businesses from 28% to 24%, as if they were the large supermarket chains, banks, refineries and industries that needed this reduction. Of course, you dared to touch the elephant in the room, 100% prepayment of the tax. It is impressive that this 100% advance payment of the tax now goes to 95%. I'm sorry, but it's funny. The 5% reduction is personalization...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u107	For you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u108	Yeah, it's funny, because it's a tax measure you had denounced too. It was in 50% before the third memorandum was changed. You had denounced and said you'd restore it. And now, as your commitment is made, you'll reduce it to 5% just so you don't get it reduced at all. It's funny. In any case, because you want to be serious, we have tabled an amendment to abolish 100% of the advance payment of the tax and we invite you to accept it, Minister, and then vote in favour of it, ladies and gentlemen, of the New Democracy. Of course, you have gifts for both families and people who face road accidents every day. Reduce VAT from 24% to 13% for both infantry and safety helmets. We have said 600 million for large businesses, 12 million for the pitfalls in this measure. We continue: Corporate Social Responsibility. The sums that companies will now spend on corporate social responsibility will be excluded from taxable income. I am sorry, I have so far known that corporate social responsibility is the sums spent by a company after it has been taxed, precisely because it wants to show its social profile, because it wants to benefit society, because it is an obligation, and on the basis of UN and World Economic Forum announcements and so many other things. So now, these expenses that are also advertising of the company will be excluded from taxable income? At the same time, the fishermen are taxing, at the same time you have tax exemptions for overseas countries, offshore, you have a tax exemption for foreign bonds. Wait a minute, didn't you borrow at negative interest rates as you were saying? Why do they need additional incentives for bonds? Are they gifts they need, not motives?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u109	The whole of Europe is doing it. We're not in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u110	But the whole of Europe has a social state which we do not have. It does not exaggerate the rich and the poor themselves. It does not have horizontal scales, but it has a verticalization of taxation depending on the economic order of each individual. It's all getting horizontal here. You are actually making payroll taxable for electric cars. Too good a measure, but at the same time you put cars not electrically in the same measure. You are actually dismantling the environmental targeting of this measure as you do to so many other bills of yours by putting something good about something bad about the same provision. You are doing the same by reducing taxation on energy savings in buildings. Excellent measure. But you allow the same reduction in taxation for the aesthetic upgrading of buildings. This leaves the environmental targeting that we are needed to tackle climate change.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u111	Both of them together.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u112	You will pay this revenue from our tax revenues. These revenues are reduced in order to go to climate change savings and at the same time you are sending them to the aesthetic upgrade of buildings. So someone who is not at all interested in climate change will simply paint his building and get the same tax relief. As far as Article 67 is concerned, it is impressive that you are cutting off the alternative compensation to economic inspectors and that is unexplained. But we go to article 18, and we see that old bills of the judiciaries are being released for old crimes. In fact, there seems to be a relevance of the two provisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u113	It shall be frozen six times the amount under control. The rest is being released. Six times the amount controlled by the tax office is frozen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u114	And you are going on to release other sums, as you have already done in previous provisions, and we have the history of 'FINANCIAL TIMES'. We don't have to repeat them every time. At the same time, all your budget is based on the assumption that the revenues will come from indirect taxation through growth. Your basic assumption is that growth will come from the building. So it seems to us how, by canceling all the tax revenues from building in the next three years, there will be an increase in your tax revenue. The obvious of this contradiction is that you don't really care about the development objective, you don't care about revenue. You are interested in this to benefit Mr. Latsis and LAMDA DEVELOPMENT in Greek - perfection and dash -, the LAMDA DEVELOPMENT, which has now received 880 million from our indebted banks, when you celebrate the 767 million return of profits from Greek bonds to Eurogroup. And you're giving it all up to Latsi. Our banks are in such a bad situation that they will need a recapitalisation that will come with loans and memos. And we will now have to give for the 1 billion that they gave for the Greek. For the diesel scandal, we really are surprised that you are not asking for these compensation from Germany and we are asking for explanations from both New Democracy and SYRIZA. Now because there is a lot of discussion these days about Mr Erdogan's challenges, at some point apart from calling 'hazard, danger', we have to be a little practical in this country. We currently have the islands that are at the forefront of Mr Erdogan's challenges and through the Memorandum of Understanding we have made sure that we hit their economy by equitable VAT with Central Greece as if they did not have a terriblely increased cost from transport. We tabled an amendment as a PARTA25. We ask if New Democracy and SYRIZA are saying that the memorials have been over, that you abolish the Memorandum measures and start with what concerns the life of the inhabitants on our eastern border, the inhabitants of the islands, by reducing taxation for these islands, by reducing VAT. We're not asking for anything shocking. We ask that it be reduced to what existed before the Memorandum. I think it's self-evident. I have submitted to you in the Practical Declarations of recent years by the Mayor of Oinoussa, by the District Director of the South Aegean, the North Aegean, by the Chamber of the Dodecanese and many others. You know them. They are also known by your MPs and by the Dodecanese. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Kriton - Ilias Arsenis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, we invite you to accept this amendment. We believe that it is fair and it is also an answer to what is happening these days with Mr Erdogan. We, as you can see, will vote against in principle and most of the provisions of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u115	The Deputy Minister, Mr. Besiropoulos, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u116	You won't listen to the MPs, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u117	You're right. I wanted to talk about the amendments and I would talk about everything. Wait?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u118	Minister, the President of Greek Solution has also asked for the floor at 13: 00. Either you talk now to talk later or you'll talk after Mr. Velopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u119	Let's hear Mr. Velopoulos first. Mr President, I would like to make it easier because, with my position, I would have referred to the amendment tabled, I would have supported the amendment as well. That is why I wanted to speak in order to make it easier for my fellow Members. But let us wait for the President and the colleagues to hear first, and I will talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u120	But the President isn't even here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u121	All right, we're going to join the speakers now. Time has been set for seven minutes. They have asked to speak exactly a hundred colleagues. We must, if we want to finish tomorrow in view of the fact that there may also be gatherings, and many colleagues will want to leave, strictly respected the seven-minute period. If it is not complied with, we will wrong those of your colleagues who are going to talk to the end, because we will be forced to reduce the time. I would therefore ask that the seven-minute period be strictly respected. The first speaker is called by New Democracy Mr Konstantinos Konstantinos Kontogeorgios.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I enter my speech on the draft law under discussion, I would like to make two points as a mere citizen of this country in this Chamber where hypocrisy and enthusiasm are left behind by colleagues in opposition. The previous speaker before me in Vima, the spokesman of Mera25 spoke as if we were not living in the same country, but we live somewhere else, in a different country. Instead of telling us whether or not they vote, the only draft law that comes to the Greek Parliament and has only reliefs for all the citizens of this country, it has taken us out. And he even called magically for the New Democracy election programme to be implemented until Christmas! We respond, Mr. Mera25 spokesman for you at the Step. The New Democracy has people of worthy, pragmatic people who know reality and move as far as possible with over-represented and very much work. You may be drawn by your President, by the Chief of your side, who in six months has achieved the impossible: He has completely destroyed the Greek economy. Understand? That's the reality. And that's not all. I will answer you with a people's proverb that our people say every day. "Here we were owed and taken the ox." That's how we ended up in this Chamber. I will also tell you a third folk proverb: "From outside the dance, many songs you say." And I come to the spokesman for Officer Response, the former State Secretary, Alexiadis, who neither too much nor much knows when the memorandums were signed. So I bring him to class. The second memorandum, Mr Alexiadis, was signed and agreed by the universal government of technocrats, in February 2012, to know that. The medium-term specialization programme is another thing. Another thing the Memorandum, another in the medium term. It's very different from one another. Here's the thing. And you in all these days have perpetuated the Step of the Parliament, Ministers, former ministers, MPs, and have not answered the simplest question: will you vote on any provision of the draft law which comes to Parliament and which brings tax relief for the whole of the Greek people?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u123	We'll vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u124	So say it, let's hear it. Why don't you say it? What kind of terrain is that? What kind of tricks are these? Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy, consistent with its election commitments, gradually implements its programme, which was approved by the Greek people by a large majority in the elections of 7 July 2019. The new tax bill entitled: 'Poritive reform with a development dimension for Greece of tomorrow', which we are discussing today and tomorrow in plenary, comes firstly to respond to the general demand for society to reduce unbearable taxes on the backs of the people by the disastrous SYRIZA Government - ANEL, secondly, to the immediate need for the country to return to normality and growth of the economy, and thirdly, to limit the overcrowding that condemns the national economy to underdevelopment and to all Greek citizens in poverty. This draft law can be described as the beginning of a new period for our national economy, the exit from stagnation and underdevelopment. It can be described as the beginning of a virtuous course, which will surely lead to healthy and safe growth. The Government of New Democracy seriously, realistically and above all with knowledge of the real conditions currently prevailing in the country, but also internationally, proposes to the National Representation the present draft law, which includes tax relief of natural persons and businesses by reducing the tax rates for incomes of 2019. It introduces a tax rate from 22% imposed by the SYRIZA government at 9% for employees, pensioners, free professionals, natural persons and farmers. This reduction will favour all those who have an income of less than EUR 10,000, but also all taxpayers, since their income is subject to a scalable tax. In order to strengthen small and large enterprises, the tax rate from 28% to 24% is reduced in 2019, from 28% imposed by the SYRIZA Government. The advance payment of the income tax to legal persons is reduced to 95% and the reasons here are good reason why we should not hide behind our finger. Without creating a climate of confidence and stability in the economy there is no possibility of investing in reducing unemployment. We have to understand that. A low tax rate of 10% is introduced for agricultural cooperative schemes. EUR 1,000 duty is increased for each protected child. All SMEs with a disability rate of more than 80% are exempted from the solidarity levy. The VAT is falling from 24% to 13% on infants, 24% that the SYRIZA government did. The VAT is reduced from 24% to 13% on the children's seats and on the helmets of motorcycles for good reasons. Mr Arseni, I have been expecting something from you beyond the dimension of the security of citizens. The helmets can't be purchased from the bald guys from Exarchia, we'll get them from the certified producers. What can we do now? Helmets are safe to produce, not to produce balls. Otherwise we would do that too, because so many of us we have found can equip the entire youth of our country. The contribution of 0.6% of Law 128/75 to Factory and Leasing credits is abolished in order to reduce the cost of financing and operating small and medium-sized enterprises. Significant incentives are provided for attracting foreign direct investment. They are exempted from income tax, the solidarity levy, the interest and the corporate bonds, which are listed on the stock exchange in various markets. It is reduced from 10% to 5% the dividend tax rate, while the conditional exemption of legal persons, who are tax residents of Greece from the transfer of securities and from the goodwill tax, is introduced. With a view to attracting investment, tax residential legislation is sent. An alternative method of taxation is established. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance for a minute, as was the case with previous colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u125	It will be at the expense of other colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u126	Yes, Mr President, the honourable Member has already reached twenty-two minutes from 15. You're the one who's standing in ten seconds now? Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to refer to the last part on the reduction of tax evasion, because we have heard a lot here today. The increase in the rate of evidence from 20% to 30% is considered to be excessive, ladies and gentlemen? I have heard Mr Alexiadis, who said that this is for the benefit of the people of Europe, the big businessmen and others and that we are reducing the limitation time, etc. Aren't you telling me, Mr. Alexiadis, how many convicted finances have you caught and sent to prison? From the lists you checked - you upset us for ten years - how many did you close in jail? On the contrary, you took them out of prison. Ladies and gentlemen, because time is irreversible, this draft law is the only bill in the last ten years that only provides for reliefs for all Greeks, and in that sense we must all support it. The gradual dismantling of the country's institutional framework is essential for restoring justice, but also for all Greeks to resurrect from the unfair taxation they have suffered over the years. We must therefore leave aside the halves and excuses and misguided criticism of Representation, because citizens are watching and judging. I am voting for this draft law, both at the outset and in its entirety and the articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u128	Wait a minute. There's no personal now. He made a criticism of what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u129	There's been a falsification of my word and I want it restored.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u130	I don't see there's any staff. There was nothing. I would like to say something to colleagues. Please keep up with the time, because with the time we calculated here there is no chance that we will be done before 20: 00' tomorrow afternoon. If time is being violated or we will be going too late tomorrow, or we will be forced to reduce the time of the other speakers, which is unfair.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u131	Mr President, I would like the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u132	Mr. Comrade, there was nothing personal. I don't see there was anything personal. As you know, the staff, according to the Rules of Procedure, are on two occasions. First of all, when someone is being abusive to a colleague or a second, if the contents of what he has said are altered.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u133	Second one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u134	Good. You have the floor. Tell us where the alteration is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u135	My colleague said that I would ask the New Democracy to implement its programme within a six-month period. There's nothing like that, I want it to be clear. Even in my worst nightmares, I do not want this programme to be implemented in a semester. What I have requested is that the programme should be implemented with regard to the primary surplus and overtaxation at these two points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u136	I would ask the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos, to come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u137	Mr President, if that is the case, we on the ninety list will never talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u138	You are right, but unfortunately the Rules of Procedure stipulate that the floor should be given for a minute to develop if there is a staff. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u139	Mr President, thank you very much. Unfortunately, you won't let us sanctify. I mean, what we learn every day is from unwritten. Not from Evrytania, from the top. I have an answer from Mr Chrysochide. I read it to you self-sufficiently, and I challenge any intelligent MP to tell me whether this thing means a state. A non-governmental organisation in the Pieria Prefecture carries a thousand people to the area of Lower Milia. So I ask the Minister what this non-governmental organization is. Hear the Minister's answer: "In October - November, so many people were transferred, etc. This NGO is not registered in the Ministry’s registers.’ In other words, you are telling us that there is a non-governmental organisation, which is not legal, is not registered anywhere, and that it transfers people as if they were a travel agency, takes them tours, walks. Is that a state? Is that your final state? You will tell me 'four months we are ruling'. Yeah, but you had a schedule, you said, you had everything ready to solve it by tomorrow morning. In other words, you were telling the Greek people that "we are ready to solve all the problems of the country, give us your vote to be elected". And there are non-governmental organisations that operate uncontrollably and everyone does what they want. Transported, he says, a thousand people in an area, in a village near the foothills of Pierres, and what does he say? "We don't know who they are." Now what can I tell you? Do I? I don't understand. Secondly, Minister, a few minutes ago, newspapers and media and sites come out and say they have the Libya-Turkey Memorandum of Cooperation. And I ask this government, which you govern: will we learn from journalists what the Prime Minister of the country has to tell us, the Presidents of the parties and the MPs? How did this document leak and go to a newspaper? You tell me. Who gave it up while the government doesn't have it yet?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u140	He was filed with the Turkish Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u141	That's what I'm saying. The newspaper, the site, not officially the Greek side. That's what the post says. So the Ministry of Foreign Affairs doesn't have the services to help it and the journalists get it. That's what you're telling me. It is shameful to know that it has come to the hands of journalists first and not of the well-known websites, SKAI or Mr Kostis who are there, another site has found the agreement. And I ask: can the Prime Minister not be informed from yesterday afternoon until noon at noon at the party presidents?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u142	He'll let them know.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u143	The'should' sow it and it did not grow, Mr Colleague. I don't want to have a dialogue with you. I know what Mr Dendias said, that he will inform only the competent Members, that is what he said. It's your official statement. So if we want to get serious in this country at some point, why don't you let us sanctify ourselves, let us be serious. And because the otherwise sympathetic Mr. Conkogeor said things, that we're moving on, that we're doing...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u144	Contemporary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u145	Contemporary. Similar is the name, the same thing is. The difference is at the root and the origin of what I understood. So let's actually go. You told us things, and the Minister will tell us so much. But what didn't you tell us? Let me tell you what you didn't tell us. What did you promise in the election that you were going to do from the first day, from the first semester? Removal of a trade fee, Minister. Secondly, abolishing a special solidarity levy. Thirdly, a reduction in the tax rate to 20%, which you took at 24%. What were you promising in the election? Based on your program, uploaded online, as a New Democracy, I now tell you. You'll tell me another thing about New Democracy and the government, it's another thing. Then why were you voted as a government? Let's go down. Overcompensation for new investments of 200%. Reduction of VAT to 11% and 22%. What kind of stuff did you do? That's what you promised. You have hollowed the Greek people's vote with lies and you come today and because you give a pill for the gangrena, you say "you will be cured". That's not how it works. And I speak to you as a businessman: the economy cannot go like this. I am neither a tax-payer nor a journalist nor in any case an official of a Ministry or a civil servant. I am an entrepreneur who pays every month tax and VAT, and I know what I'm saying to you, it doesn't come out! Outside the market is tight, businesspeople die, they have a financial problem, understand it. You have no, I repeat, programme to raise the economy and business money so that they can move forward. We've got a problem, it's over. Tax bill. What didn't you predict? No substantial tax relief for the middle class, no one, but nothing, no one! No tax exemptions for the majority of employees and pensioners. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. This is another, global originality, in Greece to pay in advance tax for next year. You're asking me how I have to pay 100% or 80% in December, what your Ministry wants - not to say a lot of heavy in here - as a godfather to take the money away from me? Do I have them? For next year's profits? You're asking me? You're asking the businessman if he can give them up? You do not ask him, because on paper you are carrying out legislative work and on paper you are working. Get out on the market the real thing to see what's going on. Go out and see what's going on, God and Holy Mary! I can't believe what's going on. Listen. No tax reliefs to single parent families. You told SKAI this morning. Minister, you know there's a million and a half people who are single-parent families and take them out of vulnerable groups. Why? Here we have a problem that we don't have Greeks and people grow up a child with a problem, fight for it, raise it, take it to school, etc. And take them out of the vulnerable groups. But they're vulnerable groups, what should we do? I'm telling you the obvious. No abolition of the solidarity levy for incomes of up to EUR 20,000, except for the largest incomes. I'm not leaving you on the left, I'm not going to start telling you the aristotle things the gentlemen here, who did the same thing, that the rich man is taxed, etc., because I want all Greeks to be rich, Mr. Minister, I want everyone to have money. I'm not the reason of fake lefters, that, because they don't have money, they don't have the others, they all have it. This is the difference of the Greek Solution. I want the Greek up, I want him to make money, to move the market. No tax reduction on cooperative farmers. You're from a rural area, Minister. Imathia's tightening up. Pella, from where I come from, she's squeezing. Why don't you do what they want? Not a reduction in income tax on permanent residents in regions with a population of up to three thousand. Christ and God bless you! In other words, while we have a problem in the region, we don't have Greeks, ah, we solved it, you solved it, you transfer Ibrahim and Hassan, you "enrichment" of societies with Ibrahim and Hassan. Instead of motivating Greeks to leave the region, we are the only country in the world that has five million inhabitants in eleven in one city, the crime that all governments have committed since 1950. There is no other state where half of its population is in one town. Instead of motivating them to go to the district, you bring me Ibrahim and Hassan. You do not give incentives for Greeks to stay there, for everyone to go to Athens and Thessaloniki. I'll tell you now why I accused Mr. Alexiadis and SYRIZA. What did you say in the election? Reduced VAT on the islands. Expansion and not freezing. You blamed SYRIZA. Increasing rates of rent income: You did not reduce it. You didn't dare. Enforcement of a fixed telephony tax and the Internet. Listen, this story has to stop. We're the country with the most expensive cell phone. We are the country that pays the most expensive phone and we have the most expensive telecommunications. Why? So the corporations can call it? A study came out yesterday from the University of Athens, if I'm not mistaken, which says we're the most expensive country. Why? Are we richer than the Germans? Are we richer than the French, Minister? What are we, so I can figure it out? Why should I pay my cell phone more expensive than French and German? Do we not have a single Europe? Aren't we in a Eurozone integrated with the same regime? Why would there be three, four and five speeds? It's all these questions that...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u146	Well, we're cooler than that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u147	We're good, we're good, we're good, we're good, we're good, but don't be too good, because we're other handsome, other fatal. Let's actually go. In December, for those who don't know in here, we're going to get a tax bill by all Greeks. We have to say, in 2020 traffic charges, in the fourth ENPI dose, in the settlement of outstanding debts. People won't make holidays, people will go from cashier to cashier and pay. If this is called economic policy for growth, you make a big mistake. You just manage tax-sparkling measures, tax measures, so that you can breathe more as a government. You're making mistakes. You have no plan to draw resources from the primary sector. I keep shouting: Support for the primary sector. Let's actually go. The essence is what? Because you speak of a united Europe, Minister, and whenever I speak, you say that we have norms and rules. Recently, tax evasion has been voted on by the European Union. The proposal was rejected, the directive on the avoidance of many companies. Multiethnic would have to reveal profits and taxes paid to Member States of the European Union. Who didn't vote? Ireland, Luxembourg, Cyprus, Malta. France, Spain and the Netherlands voted in favour. What country did you leave? The one that moves our fingers, my Minister, and talks to us about transparency, Germany. The world's largest washing machine is Germany. The most corrupt country in the world is Germany and you say that the Germans are our friends.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u148	Don't level it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u149	Admiral, I live it. If you go 500,000 euros to Deutsche Bank, it doesn't control you where you got it. If I go 50,000 euros or 100,000 euros to a Greek bank, straight bells will ring. I know Germany, you don't know her. You may remember her in the past. I know, I repeat, what Germany means and what it really means. The legal ‘washer’ is Germany. So let's take Libya seriously. My Minister, listen to what the New Democracy strategy is in relation to Libya and Turkey as regards what has happened. Listen to what you say as government. He said this to your Minister: "Turkey will suffer internationally from our own policy." I ask: How will Erdogan get suffocated when Germany gives him a suffocation? He's giving him guns. They've locked up the funds and gave the Turks guns. France is with us, because it's just her interests with us. Trump gives him a "hiddle". England is "handling him". How are you going to hold him diplomaticly? You don't have a plan. I have said thousands of times that the worst of all - and you don't know it - is that in a few days, Minister, we may see any research boat under Crete. We will see, because Turkey will not stop causing, it will go under Crete. And I ask: does the Prime Minister of the country not feel the need to inform the Heads of the parties what should be the single attitude and line of our national line and of our unity? He should not call the political leaders and tell them that: “Come here, guys. I want your help." He's got it all on his own? And if national crime becomes a national tragedy, will it take it alone on it or when that moment comes he will tell us: "What do we do now?" I'll say it. Because Turkey will constantly escalate, it is time to copy the model of the beginning of the 20th century, when Koundouriotis, not listening to the politicians of that period, plunged the Turkish fleet. So if they dare and go down to Crete, under our island, we must at some point decide, my Admiral, that "the knot in the comb" is here and we immerse them immediately, to end this story. Because we can, we have the right, we have the ability and the obligation to deal with, not in our history, with the children who come. The children who come don't deliver smaller Greece. I fear that it will surrender smaller Greece. We're going to the Prime Minister's mistakes. The only statement he made where the Prime Minister went to NATO - the channels, of course, hid it - is strange: "The great threat we are experiencing is the Russian infiltration in the Balkans." It is our Prime Minister's statement in the paper 'Telegraph'. Christ and God bless you! Anti-Russian credentials in the US agent, even petting us. He said it in his interview. Read his interview. Why am I saying that? Because you just don't understand one thing. They're using us. Our allies consider it 'usable idiots'. That's what we are. We are the 'usable idiots'. It's got to be a board of Chiefs, a board of national security. I'm shouting, but nobody listens to me. Mrs. Gennamas has got what the Greek Solution says and she says so, and she prefers to. And it's good. I hope so, Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Koutsubas. Let's get together so we know what we're doing from now on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u150	Don't say we copy you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u151	Mr. Catarini, there has been a statement here since September. Since September. So the main Prime Minister of the country reiterated this in his interview: Greek commitment to the Prespecies Agreement. Composed! And what did he say? ‘I hope France will correct the error of veto.’. While here, from the Step of Parliament, speaking to Mr. Tsipras, he said that "our right to veto does not change it". So, then, you were electorally lying all the time, and now you're sucking, unfortunately. That's the truth. It's the truth! Because we are talking about Libya, I should like to tell you why it is not a 'hot' incident, because you have diplomats who probably do not see well. In the Treaty of Lausanne, Articles 22 and 27 on Libya do you know what they say? It's very important. Mr. Dendias didn't understand that either. Turkey has basically signed no intervention in Libya for ever. These are Articles 22 and 27 of the Treaty of Lausanne. I put it in the Minutes, to get Mr. Dendias, if he sends any steps to Turkey and tells her that 'you have no right of intervention, because Libya, as you have signed, is not about you'. I'll give it to you, so you know. So there is the relevant article. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Velopoulos presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In conclusion, Mr President, I should like to say this. I shall ask you a rhetorical question, ladies and gentlemen. Because here many are poachers, they love Ibrahim and Hassan and they are their right, their choice, a question I will ask, which is essential: Can fanatical Islam be assimilated? Yes or no? That's the question. It's not a racial matter. To God! Because we're going to racism. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] So can Islam be assimilated? My opinion is no. Because it is not compatible with the western way of life, because it is impossible to integrate fanatical Muslims and, above all, fanatical Islam - gentlemen of the left above all, who are fake humanists or humanists or whatever you are - be informed: fanatical Islam is also a political ideology. If you don't understand that, I'm afraid you'll constantly make mistakes. It's a judiciary, since the mob's also a judge. You don't understand that? The muft, or their metropolitan, is a judge at the same time. So it's a political-trial system. How will we assimilate a different system in Greece to orthodox or atheists? If you are ungodly, your right, your choice, I disagree. So, can we assimilate these people? No, and I'm vertical. It is incompatible to fanatical Islam with legal culture, the customs of Western societies. That's the reality. If you, from the love you have for Ibrahim and Hassan and not George, Nikos, Stavros, you think you can "close your eyes", you make a mistake. Because I want Greece to be Christian, orthodox, European and tolerant, but not Islamic. No Islamist! Orthodox, Christian, European, tolerant, but not Islamic. Clear things to know what we're talking about. Because another Islam and another Clitocorticots. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I'll make a complaint to the atheists, the activists. I've never seen any atheist, agnostic, rightful, etc. attack another religion, for example, against Islam. All these attack Orthodoxy against Christianity. All the atheists find the memorials of the priest, the metropolitan, etc. There are no measles for Islam. Everything is well burned. Don't you know what Islam, gentlemen, says about homosexuals? Do you close your eyes? You don't know? They're killing them. You don't know that? Don't you know what she says about the woman, that she has to wear a bourga, make her a clitoritomy? You don't even know that? Teach you at universities, if you want. It's no different. Understand what you are going to do in Greece. Finally, I will say this once again: I have never seen a serious concern for education from my own point of view. Unfortunately, friends and friends have come out of a very great forum that says that Greeks are now illiterate. We're late. Have you wondered that this is our country's problem, education? That in the next few years we're gonna have kids in letters, inconveniences, uninformed, uninformed? You want kids "pulp"? I refer to all Members. We need to see our education, friends and friends. Colleague, the cornerstone of society is education, because it is the future of the country, of the state. Friends and friends, there was an occupation and an announcement made by ELMELIAN, ELME, Christ and Holy Mary! ELME, teachers, teachers in favor of illegality. ELME! He says: “The occupation “Rosa Nera” has been socially legitimized, both in the consciousness of the labor unions and the social and cultural movements and groups of Chania.” I ask: shouldn't these teachers be fired immediately? They legalize and approve illegality that doesn't concern them. They should teach our children, not teach how to make occupations, not teach how to do illegal acts and actions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u152	Mr President, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u153	I'm closing, Mr. President. So it's all a matter of education and treatment. Unfortunately, when some of you in Parliament are embarrassing and uneducated, the results will be our children remain in the 'kill'. We want "light" in Greece, we want the Greek photographer and not a dark guy and a hypothony. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u154	First of all, I want to let you know...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u156	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u157	Mr. Hatzidakis, whoever wants to speak is not here. Sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u158	One word...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u159	I haven't given you the floor. Please, sit down. When I give you the floor, you will say one word and Mr Chakalotos will say two. I'm starting to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u160	Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u161	I would like to inform you that they are a hundred fellow speakers. I am not prepared to do so to my colleagues in favour of the Heads of State or Government. Secondly, we should all read Article 66(8), which says very specific things. The speaker speaks of the bill. Otherwise, he says what the President-in-Office should do. Thirdly, we will be going tonight by an hour, so that tomorrow's effort can be made that hundreds of colleagues have spoken. And I appeal to everyone, who is the first to think that other colleagues are following and that the time is respected. Before Mr. Besiropoulos, who has asked him for his speech, has the floor for two minutes and then Mr. Hatzidakis has two more minutes. Here you go, Mr. Chakaloto.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u162	I want a minute, Mr President, because I respect what you said before. I think that both the Members and the Bureau should show respect for our Constitution. Our Constitution talks about freedom of religion. Our Constitution recognizes that there are people in this state who have the religion of Islam. We have heard a speech of extreme racist and fascist targeting...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u163	Mr President, what does this have to do with the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u164	I will give you the floor, because you will reasonably want to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u165	...our minority and people who have another religion from the majority. I think you will agree with me that it is also an obligation for the Bureau to support these principles, which are in our Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u166	Mr. Hatzidakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u167	Mr President, at the edge of his speech, the President-in-Office, Mr Velopoulos, said that Germany is a corrupt country. I appreciate, Mr President - without having your own enormous experience - that this should be deleted, because it is not good from the official Step of the House to speak so deviously about a country that hosts thousands of Greeks and other people, which gives bread and training. Mr. Velopulus, I think we should delete it. Dismiss this. We can say that at a café, but from the official Step of the House it is not allowed to be said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u168	The President-in-Office has no right, when he speaks party leader, to delete without his consent. Mr Velopoulos also heard Mr Tsakalotou's remark, which I consider to be reasonable, but also yours. He'll answer for three minutes to each other. If Mr Velopoulos tells me that he agrees to delete a phrase from what he said, it will, of course, be deleted. Otherwise, from there on, everyone is characterized by what he says. Here, Mr. Velopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u169	To understand what exactly it was said: When the German police come out and says Deutsche Bank is Europe's most corrupt bank, will I call it the most corrupt state? Are you all right? You know what you're saying to me? I know Germany better than you do. I live there, I was born, I grew up. You're a little confused. When INTERNATIONAL TRANSFER is based in Berlin and they themselves have problems with corruption in Germany, will I withdraw? No, Mr. Comrade. You're wrong. You're making a big mistake! Yeah, it's the most corrupt country. There is a German Europe. The German factor - that is the truth - is unfaithful, unfortunately, from the Germans to the Europeans. I'm going, now, to Mr. Chakaloto. I don't know where he disagreed. I say the fanatical Islam has bourges, it has claustrophes. When you do six-year-old clitoritomy child, Mr. President, I cannot consent. If Mr. Chakaloto likes it, his right. I don't like it. That's what I said. And the last: I repeat what the Quran says or what their religion says, that, unfortunately, homosexuals throw them off the fifth floor. I'm not inhuman. Respect the man. It's a key component.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u170	Nazis used to say that about the Jews. You must be ashamed of yourself!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u171	So I say to Mr Chakaloto that, if he likes the clitoritomy, the bourgeoisie and throwing homosexuals out of the windows, it is his right. I do not accept it in Greece, and I do not accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u172	Good. I don't think Mr. Chakalotos said that. In any case, you have said your views. You do not want words to be deleted and the Bureau does not delete them and move on. Mr Besiropoulos will now be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u173	Mr President, I would also like to refer to the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u174	As you speak of the amendments, there will be a tolerance. So instead, for nine minutes you're entitled to, I'll give you fifteen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u175	Don't I deserve more time?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u176	No, nine minutes you're right. Mr. Stavros is entitled to eighteen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u177	Then I will have to take the floor for the amendments afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u178	Then you can't have fifteen. Decide what you want. That's what the Rules of Procedure say. Let's start, get to the amendments and we'll find them. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the contents of the tax bill that the House is required to vote on tomorrow came after a serious, thorough study of all the data and the distortions that exist in existing tax policy. It was put into open consultation for a sufficient period of time. It was discussed in detail at the meetings of the Committee on Economic Affairs, at which all the stakeholders were invited, who positively appreciated the content of the draft law. In fact, they were directly asked by the Minister of Finance if they wish to withdraw a provision and not one of them asked for it. It is a key point in the vote on this bill, as for the first time in recent years a tax bill, which does not increase, but reduces taxes, a tax bill, which, apart from the reduction of taxes, has a social significance with measures to support vulnerable groups and welfare for our weak fellow citizens. In addition, this bill strengthens business and economic activity, while environmentally friendly measures are adopted. We therefore prove in practice that tax policy can and must have a development dimension and a targeting. It is precisely here that our difference with the previous government, whose tax policy was depleted in lasting overtaxation, was limited to a purely fiscal role. In addition, they have achieved the achievement of the objectives of primary surpluses. An excessive excess, which, in essence, undermined the development process, since it lacked valuable resources from the real economy. Somehow this has led the country to irrationality of overtaxation, which has led 50% of the citizens to have tax debts and to their being imposed or at risk of being imposed on them by accounts and confiscations. In this stalemate course Greek citizens ended with their vote in the elections of 7 July. And do not think that the low and medium-sized layers, for which, allegedly, you are interested in words, have forgotten the results of your policy. In recent years, after all, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government imposed twenty-nine tax increases, twenty-nine additional and unnecessarily tax burdens on citizens. Did you or did you not impose twenty-nine tax increases or new taxes, Mr. Vice-Population rapporteur, who we hold the same form in our hands? You talked about electronic cigarettes, about imposing the special tax on electronic cigarettes, because it is a new product. You spoke about Airbnb, introducing a fine-tuning tax. You spoke about plastic bags, about imposing an environmental charge on the use of plastic bags, but you did not say about increasing VAT. The high 23% rate at 24%. You also did not say about the transfer of broad-consumption products and services from the reduced rate to the normal rate, from 13% to 24%. You said nothing about the abolition of reduced VAT on the Aegean islands. Furthermore, you said nothing about increasing the rates of special solidarity levy, a tax that was extraordinary and would be abolished on 31-12-2016. You have come and made him a new, permanent tax and you have more than tripled the tax rates. From 0.7%, 1.4% and 2.1%, which the New Democracy had, to 2.2%, 5% and 6.5% respectively. You said nothing about the reduction of the tax, which you received on 9,545 euros. You were going to take it at 12,000 euros, you were down below the 9,000 euros that the Minister of Finance said would have resigned if you passed the'red line', you took it at 8,636 euros and reduced it to 5,681 euros. And if the crash did not come to the European elections, you would not take it back. You said nothing about the abolition of tax exemptions on medical expenses, the abolition of the reduction in the tax rate of 1.5% on wage earners. You said nothing - I remind you that we keep the same form in our hands, what you previously had, and you showed it here - to increase the rates of rent income that were 11% and 33%, and that was 15%, 35% and 45%. You said nothing about increasing the tax advance for all professionals, for small and medium-sized enterprises, from 55% to 100%. You said nothing about increasing the income tax rate for legal persons from 26% to 29%. You said nothing about the abolition of a reduced excise duty on alcoholic beverages in the Dodecanese. You said nothing about the levying of the tax on pay-TV, which is a new tax. Because in the new taxes you said only about electronic cigarettes, about Airbnb, about plastic bag. The levy on pay-TV is a new tax, 10%. You said nothing about imposing the new tax on fixed telephony and on the Internet, 5%. Increase the tax on beer. Enforcement of the excise duty on wine that you abolished after the judgment of the Supreme Court. You said nothing about increasing the tax on unleaded petrol, on heating oil, which you received the allowance from EUR 210 million and went to EUR 58 million. You said nothing about imposing a residence tax on all tourist accommodation. You said nothing about the new tax, coffee tax. You said nothing about the increase in the supplementary tax, which you lower the limit from EUR 300 000 to EUR 200 000 - of HNPH, I am talking - and you have more than tripled the tax rates into this tax. You said nothing about imposing a fee on the value of computers, on the tablets, in the size of internal memory of more than 4GB. On the contrary, at the core of our policy is the reduction of taxes. It is now time to follow the exact opposite course. The Government of New Democracy, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, is starting to act. Tax relief began from the first days of this government's term of office, with the reduction of HICPIA. With the tax bill, we are moving towards a new tax reduction package and this is certainly not stopping here. There will also be new tax concessions in the future, which will be accelerated by achieving high growth rates and creating a larger budget area. In essence, the reduction in tax concessions for 2020 reaches the sum of EUR 1,2 billion. It includes, firstly, the introduction of an import rate of 9%, instead of 22% that is today, for employees, pensioners, freelance professionals and farmers, and for incomes of up to EUR 10 000. This reduction concerns not only those with incomes of up to EUR 10 000, but it benefits almost all taxpayers, since their income is taxed on a progressive scale. It is worth noting that they are reduced by one percentage point and the coefficients for higher incomes. Our policy does not have a class mark, which is why tax evasion concerns all those affected by the policy of overtaxation. In my place in committee I gave detailed examples of the benefit that taxpayers will benefit from this intervention. Those who refuse to see reality are given that they will continue to do what they can to distort it. However, as citizens themselves know the truth and they will see in their clearing notes, in 2020, that they will pay a tax very low compared to the one they paid for the previous years. More specifically, a free professional with an annual income of 15 000 euros has to date paid a tax of 3,300 euros, and will now pay 2 thousand euros. The tax shall be reduced by EUR 1,300 in this case. A free professional with an annual income of 24 thousand euros has to date paid a tax of 5.896 euros, and will now pay a tax of 4.596 euros. The tax is also being reduced by EUR 3,300. At the same time, the duty-free limit is increased by EUR 1,000 for each child and regardless of the number of children protected. Essentially, the increase in tax burden leads to a reduction in the tax burden and I quote the specific data in order to understand them all. There is a EUR 810 reduction for a taxpayer with a child, with the tax-free limit increasing to EUR 9 000. The corresponding reduction for a taxpayer with two children is EUR 900, with the tax-free limit increasing to EUR 10 000. For third parties, the reduction corresponds to EUR 1,120 and with the duty-free limit increasing to EUR 11,000. EUR 1,340 for a taxpayer with four children and with the tax-free limit to be searched at EUR 12 000 and also for each additional child, after the fourth, the tax reduction is increased by EUR 220 for each next child. Secondly, we are moving towards a reduction in the tax rate for businesses from 28% to 24%. It is a measure that favours small and large enterprises. Let us stress at this point that the income tax rate of legal persons will be further reduced in the next period in order for the Greek economy to regain its competitiveness in the European and international economic environment. It was our commitment and it becomes reality. At the same time, the 50% reduction in the first stage tax rate for newly-born enterprises remains in force for the first three years of their operation. Thirdly, the tax on dividends is reduced from 10% to 5%. Fourthly, it reduces the advance payment of income tax to 95% of the resulting tax on businesses and for the year 2018. Fifthly, a low tax rate of 10% is introduced for agricultural cooperative schemes, a measure aimed at regenerating and modernising the primary sector. Sixth, they are exempted from the solidarity levy, which the previous government has converted into a permanent tax, all persons with a disability rate of 80% or more, regardless of the nature or form of disability. Seventhly, VAT on infants is being reduced from 24%, which is currently at the reduced rate of 13%. Eighth, VAT on helmets and children's seats is reduced from 24% to 13%. Ninth, the contribution of 0.6% of Law 128/1975 to company credits is abolished with a view to reducing the cost of financing small and medium-sized enterprises. The tax draft also includes measures to support workers, based on best practices already in place in other developed countries. In particular, it changes the method of taxing the options for the acquisition of shares, the so-called “stock options” for which, since the shares acquired by their exercise are held for twenty-four months by the employees, capital gains from the exercise of those rights will not be added to the other income of the employee in order to be subject to the scale-based taxation but will be automatically taxed at a rate of 15%. In fact, for workers in start-up enterprises, i.e. small or very small non-listed enterprises, a lower rate of tax is foreseen under certain conditions at 5%. In fact, in this way, the worker has a direct benefit and participates in the investment prospects of the firm in which he works. It is a arrangement that aspires to act as an incentive to return to our country to the young people who have left the years of the crisis and finally to stop “brain drain”. The framework of taxation for benefits in kind to workers in the form of a company car, where there will now be progressive taxation, based on the retail price before tax and with new and far more fair rates of tax per step. Furthermore, vehicles granted exclusively for business purposes, with a retail price before tax of EUR 17 000, are exempted from taxation. In favour of workers, there are also measures to strengthen corporate social responsibility, such as, for example, a 30% discount on gross enterprise income on expenditure relating to the granting of unrestricted public transport pass cards, which will not be counted as income for the worker. The development dimension of the tax bill is reflected in the provisions aimed at attracting investment and investment capital in the country. I am thinking of simplifying the taxation legislation and of the new method of taxation on foreign income, with a payment of an annual flat-rate tax in the case of investments of more than EUR 500 000. In the same direction, income tax exemption and the interest on corporate bonds listed on the organised market is being directed. A significant part of the bill contains provisions aimed at giving new dynamics to the real estate market, which had suffered great tax burdens. Thus, we are suspending VAT on buildings with a licence from 1 January 2006, including the suspension and the contribution. In addition, the capital gains tax on real estate sales are suspended, which will, as a general rule, be beneficial. At the same time, there is a 40% tax reduction for service costs relating to energy, functional and aesthetic upgrading of buildings, with a total expenditure amounting to EUR 16 000, equal to four years. At the same time, as a result of the consultation, the provision by which the owners lost 5% of the income of real estate was deleted. Ladies and gentlemen, with the tax bill we are taking measures to strengthen tax compliance, to combat tax evasion, but also to upgrade the services offered by the tax administration. From now on, wage earners, pensioners, freelance professionals and income earners should bear costs equal to 30% of their actual income by electronic means of payment. Exemptions have been provided for categories of citizens who in fact face objective difficulties in using electronic means of payment. At the same time, we proceed to corrective actions, such as not including the amount of the solidarity levy and the amount of the food in the calculation of the actual income. The required rate of expenditure is reduced to 20% of the actual income, provided that they have been incurred using electronic means of payment expenditure relating to payments of personal income and HSY, credit liabilities to financial institutions and rents, which exceed 60% of their actual income. To taxpayers who have been seized by one or more accounts, other than inconsistent, the expenditure limit is limited to 5,000 euros. At the same time, tax administration is now moving on the path of rationalization and new technologies, with the aim of helping the citizen directly and without suffering. We are moving on to the one-off deletion of all the overdue debts that citizens have up to the sum of EUR 10, the monitoring of which has accumulated high administrative costs for the public. This measure benefits more than five hundred thousand citizens. In addition, we proceed with the periodic write-off of debts of up to EUR 1. We are widening the deadline for the submission of a Heritage Tax declaration from six months, which has been in force until now, at nine months, in order to make it easier for citizens. A support measure for the small wine producers sector is also introduced. According to this, the excise duty on wine established by the last day of validity of the tax, i.e. 31 December 2018, will be repaid or deleted as long as it has not been released for consumption. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to close my speech and refer to the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Finance, in order to address existing problems, by giving optimal solutions. Article 1 of the Amendment refers to the addition of a new paragraph 2a after paragraph 2 of Article 15 of Law No 4172/2013, as well as to the addition of a new paragraph 4a after paragraph 4 of Article 60 of Law No 4172/2013. This amendment restores the status of self-taxation of the amounts paid to athletes by sporting anonymity companies, sections of paid athletes or recognised sports clubs for the signature of a contract of transfer, whether it is a renewal or a solution to contractual cooperation, since these amounts exceed EUR 40,000. How much less than EUR 40,000 applies to the income tax scale. The tax resulting from the self-taxation for amounts whose total annual amount exceeds EUR 40,000 is retained on payment and is not offset by other taxes. Article 2 of the amendment refers to the amendment to paragraph 1 of Article 19 of L.4172/2013 and aims to provide strong tax incentives for individuals for donations to entities or public-private institutions through the granting of a higher tax reduction, which will now amount to 20%. So far this reduction has been 10% and it has proved practically not working. Article 3 of the amendment refers to an addition at the end of paragraph 4 of Article 24 of Law No 4172/2013, according to which a deduction is granted from the gross income of undertakings, increased by 30% in the case of depreciation costs for the purchase of zero or low-pollutant vehicles. It is an amendment with a developmental but also a strong environmental footprint. Article 4 of the amendment provides for the transfer from the 13% rate to the over-reduced rate of 6% of the medicinal products administered to patients with degraded illness. Article 5 of the topology provides for an addition to sub-case (ii) of Article 44(1) of Law 4111/2013. In particular, the tax relief of multiple families is provided for by the exclusion of their private cars from luxury living tax. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Many multiple families use cars over a thousand nine hundred and twenty - nine cubic centimeters, which are charged with luxury living tax. It is an addition which, like others, should be broadly supported, given that it is part of the Government's actions to strengthen the institution of the family.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u180	Mr. Vésyropoulou, you have to shut down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u181	I will end in a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u182	Yeah, but hang up in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u183	Article 6 of the Amendment provides for the exemption from HICP for immovable property belonging to legal persons governed by public or private law who are part of the general government as well as to OTAs and which are self-evidently used or granted free of charge to the public or are used exclusively for the purposes of public health. Article 7 of the amendment clarifies the concept of outstanding cases for which a tax on goodwill has already been imposed. Further recast the case in paragraph 2 of Article 15 of Law 3091/2002, in order that all institutions with public benefit, educational, cultural or religious objectives in Greece shall be governed by the same framework of rules. Article 8 of the amendment provides for the granting of two public property in order to meet the needs of housing services and units of responsibility of the Ministry of Civil Protection and Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, the tax bill is coming to further strengthen the improvement of the economic climate. An improvement that has been recorded internationally by the way in which markets are now dealing with the Greek economy. It is also recorded in the real economy, however, in improving market psychology and citizens. The government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is doing its promises. It builds a new relationship with the citizens and forms a fair tax system with a development dimension. It sets as the goal a strong and sustainable development for all, which will enable us to move on to other tax reductions. Because this government sees only the future and tomorrow of this country. In this better and more promising tomorrow, all Greeks have the right, inclusive and divisive logic. I invite you to support this bill, which gives breath to citizens and businesses. It strengthens the development process, has a social aim, but also a strong and reformative figure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u184	Mr. Undersecretary, I can't leave you any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u186	I suggest this. Mr Chakalotos has asked me to make an intervention. So please fill in the six of the alternating Members and then, if a parliamentary representative wants to speak, or we will continue. Mrs Christidou Rallia has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u187	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing another bill of the Mitsotakis Government entitled 'tax reform with a development dimension for Greece of tomorrow'. I honestly wonder: about Greece of tomorrow or about Greece of yesterday? With this bill - which in consultation was thirty-nine articles and in Parliament came to testify with sixty-seven, so much preparation! - Are you presenting the development dimension for Greece tomorrow? Or are you finally trying to restore in 2019 a model from the old, a model that has failed? The recovery of building and the reduction of wages and labour rights, these are your grand plans for the country. Plans that you have implemented in the post-American state of the 1950s, except now that we are seventy years later, ideas in the field of the economy seem extremely outdated. Ladies and gentlemen, it is becoming increasingly clear that the self-sufficient cancellations of the promises you have made in the run-up to the elections continue. Since you played and lost with the "Macedonian" and then with the refugee, now is the time to play your last card, that of the middle class. So long you have been talking about an unjust middle-class in SYRIZA governments, an unjust overtaxation and an unjust attempt to combat this overtaxation. But is that so? We ask you: A pensioner with 8,000 euros annual income what is he gaining from your bill? A 9,000-dollar hirer who wins from your bill? A hired man with 25,000 and a child what benefit would he have? We have found that it will not benefit, while the one who declares an income of 800,000 euros will only benefit the income tax of 9,100 euros. In other words, the employee of the 25,000 will not have any. The EUR 800.00 magnificence will have a decrease of EUR 9,100. For the famous twenty-nine unjust laws of SYRIZA, which you were telling us again with your friendly newspapers and channels? Not a single tax is abolished by you, the so-called middle-grade defenders! But you did abolish a tax. It's the wine tax. Only this tax had already been abolished by the SYRIZA government. You also promised from the summer you took over, breath to households and 1,000 tax free for every child. In the end, however, we see that in the course of the thousands, it has only been converted into EUR 364 duty-free for the first child and even a downward trend for incomes of EUR 12 000 or more. And what about the freelance professionals, which the landscape is blurred because of unspecified insurance contributions? But, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy is proving to be neither medium-sized nor, of course, poor, popular. It has made this choice since July, which confirms this bill. There we see that most of the reductions in the bill are directed at large profitable businesses and people with very large incomes. We see a reduction in tax on persons with very high incomes, who become permanent residents of Greece, a reduction in dividend tax from 10% to 5% so far, a reduction in the taxation of large companies investing in real estate. We also see a suspension of VAT on the economy, a positive regulation only for those who can support the second and third-country market, as the first, as we know, is exempted from VAT. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, what are you doing in Article 38? Instead of further chasing tax evasion, more smuggling and corruption, you give them more flexibility, not in the middle class, but in your economically powerful friends. By reducing dividend tax, who benefits? By reducing the necessary electronic transactions for the very rich, while increasing for everyone else, who is benefiting? Probably the upper income classes get won and not the middle class. You choose to give most of the reliefs, more than 600 million, i.e. more than 50%, to businesses. Even between businesses, however, your aim seems to be to help the big ones, indifferent to the small ones. Nearly 80% of the benefit from the reduction in the rate from 28% to 24% will be fruited by some six thousand businesses, that is, only 2.5% of all enterprises. For 60% of companies that have no profits there is absolutely no benefit, whereas for large profitable enterprises, almost 40% of the benefit will be fruited by only two hundred businesses, with annual profits of more than seven million. But not to say that we are also unfair, as far as electronic transactions are concerned, that there are exemptions from e-commerce for those who are beneficiaries of CRLs and those who are hospitalized for over six months, and that the taxpayers who have been seized by them are entitled to the limit is five thousand euros. However, another demonstration of class division is the exemption from special real estate tax for more and more investment companies. A large number of investment companies, including real estate used by shipping companies, such as restaurants, parking, that is, another favourable provision for a few. You left out, on your own responsibility, a series of measures decided and announced by the SYRIZA government. The abolition of a solidarity levy for incomes of up to EUR 20 000 has been chosen to reduce for greater incomes. The tax reduction for cooperative farmers, the reduction in the tax advance to 50% is some of the social measures that you did not consider useful to include. I conclude by saying that, following on from all these so-called development bills, today's debate on the tax bill is still a series of arrangements for anti-laboratory, socially-free, without a sign of development, reflecting your neoliberal philosophy, namely, no measures in favour of the social state. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, time is pushing. Time is pushing you. I will conclude with the obvious conclusion, addressing you. All you don't care about is the middle class. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mrs Christidou, and the consistency of the time. Mr. Michael Katrin has the floor from the Change Movement. We should also say the party so that everyone who hears them can understand, but they don't see.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the shadow of the resignation of the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs at such a critical national juncture, the first resignation of a member of the government, we are discussing the tax bill, a bill which is neither developmental nor is an integrated reform that serves neither current nor future needs nor society. Why? Because it does not contribute to the need to attract investment, does not contribute to the modernisation of businesses and, of course, does not contribute - and this is most critical - to the creation of jobs. This is apparent from the fact that the reductions in the tax on dividends to 24% have no link to investment and to jobs. You remember, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, that the government of Mr Karamanlis had done both in 2007, horizontally, without yielding the expected results. I don't know if you remember, but I'm sure you remember what happened next. However, the main thing is that in this bill again, it is the middle class that will be called upon to support the excessive surpluses of EUR 7 billion and to increase by EUR 979 million of taxes on goods and by EUR 264 million of income tax. All of these will see reductions from EUR 17 to EUR 37 per year. And, despite the efforts of both the Government and the Members of the House, they cannot talk about tax reductions, when indirect taxes and, unfortunately, with the Government of New Democracy are increasing, of course, the indirect taxes to the detriment of low incomes and people's populations. Nor, of course, can you talk about tax reductions, when you simply reduce tax advances from 100% to 95% - something which is dull for all professionals and businesses - and when you say that you are making tax reductions, because you are extending the tax base from the extension of electronic transactions, without at the same time doing anything about the abuses of banks accompanying these transactions. And the government's voice is unprecedented. We are now going to the issue that you are trying to degrade, but, unfortunately, you cannot hide: the increase in objective values. The Minister, when I asked him a timely question two months ago, expressed the confidence that we will not have any increase in taxation on property and that HNVIA will be adjusted by adjusting the objective values. Now, objective values are increasing, conducive to seventeen additional property taxes and, of course, by effectively cancelling the voted reduction in HPAI, since taxes on agricultural parcels and off-projects too will increase very much. Of course, it is an increase that, on the basis of your own budget, brings an additional EUR 84 million of property taxes. This is the government that reduces taxation on property! And while you said that you would initially include seven thousand regions, then, in fear of the outcry - you have reduced them to three thousand, trying to convince us that these concern only tourist areas, and at the same time you are not saying that you will adjust to three thousand seven hundred regions of values, both in Attica and in the province, with what is, of course, burdening our fellow citizens. We believe that the priorities are wrong in this tax bill. They should start from production, in particular from the export sectors, and then extend the relief to incomes progressively and, of course, also end up in consumption, with the exception of essential goods and services which should be found directly. We propose incentives to businesses that create new jobs, full exemption from taxation and insurance contributions for three years to young people who open up their own business and, of course, to stimulate the primary sector by reducing the taxation of agricultural incomes, strengthening collective organisations, farmers and exemption of agricultural parcels from the supplementary tax of HISA, which you should also legislate on. In particular, for farmers, to whom we support a great deal for the reconstruction of the country, the Change Movement proposes to introduce up to 9% of the rate of taxation for income up to 10 000 euros and 13% for surplus income, to introduce duty-free payments, and for compensation, of course, over 20 000 euros, to have a tax, which will be directed towards strengthening producer groups and the collective organisations of farmers. As for farmers who deliver their products to producer groups, of which they are members, for professional farmers, we propose that the revenue for these deliveries be reduced by 35%, and for farmers under the special scheme, that a further 5% be paid back on the VAT in question. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, with the amendment we tabled with my colleague from Arcadia, Mr Constantinople, on the big, burning issue of loans granted to the fire-fighting regions in 2007, and on the occasion of the catastrophes - remember, fires in Elia, Arcadia, Messinia, Evia and Laconia - but which, obviously, because of the crisis it broke through, did not enable most of them to repay. After many years, just a year ago, with Law 4549 of the previous government, which specialised itself at the beginning of 2019, the debtors were given the opportunity to regulate these loans with the ordinary conditions, but it was not actually implemented and cancelled, since the banks required the repayment of the Greek State guarantee. What's the result? Today no regulation has been made and there is a risk that these borrowers will automatically overturn tax-builders and lose, Minister, their real estate, as the payments of guarantees reach EUR 2.1 billion. We asked the Treasury and Mr Skylakakis, the State Secretary responsible, has so far remained unrealistic, saying that he is just waiting for the loan guarantee period to end, so that the government, as he says, can legislate in a special long-term arrangement for borrowers, who will automatically be converted into public debtors, without being clear what the framework is, how long the terms, conditions and instalments will be, and whether they are as suffocating as the ones described in the bill we are discussing. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] At the same time, SSM requires the payment of the guarantees by the State, so that banks do not have to write losses and need to be recapitalised. So SSM requires borrowers to become public debtors on adverse terms and obviously, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a solution. So I call on you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, to accept the amendment we tabled for a three-year extension of the guarantee of the Greek State, so that these borrowers may, in terms which are objective and which meet the current economic conditions, enter a serious procedure to regulate their debts. The question and the dilemma, Minister, is simple and you should answer: are you with bankers or borrowers? Here and now. The days are few, the government has to take a clear and clear position. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u190	We continue with the speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Delis Ioannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr President. What is the truth about today's tax framework? All urban parties naturally agree and reduce the tax on profits of business groups, which, let us not forget, began with the vote by SYRIZA, of course, in New Democracy and KINAL. All together, on SYRIZA, they have taken the share tax of public limited companies from 15% to 10% - today this is falling further with the bill - when they taxed the free professionals with 22% and even the first euro. Together, SYRIZA, New Democracy and KINAL voted so-called "business parks" and logistics companies to be exempted from income tax and not to pay municipal fees. Together they gave 300,000 euros, so far, to the domestic banking groups with the so-called 'defence tax'. This deferred tax is, of course, only the complete and absolute taxation of banks by 2042, until they make up for, he says, their mess from the haircut of Greek state bonds in 2012. And all this, while the PSI's busted into the insurance funds and pensioners. And, of course, bankers are also being dismantled and made redundant, such as the twenty-four employees of Piraeus Bank yesterday. But it won't pass them. Today's bank staff strike is only the beginning. As for shipowners, they consistently enjoy the fifty-three tax exemptions, which are even constitutionally guaranteed and for which no one, apart from the Communist Party of Greece, has taken the kichts a while ago in the Constitutional Review. Shipowners' taxation with both SYRIZA and the New Democracy is still symbolic and, above all, voluntary. Twenty euros a day comes when seafarers pay far more taxes. And that is a clear, clear challenge for the people, who are the permanent tax base. Here, on this very road that I have just described, the New Democracy tax bill is moving, which is why it is not original. And yet, in reverse the reality, the government shows that it brings relief for all. Let's see! For business groups, in fact, the bill brings significant reductions, by further reducing their tax rates from 28% to 24%, by taxing dividends from the shareholders of the public limited companies to 5%, by 10% that SYRIZA had gone before. Only these tax exemptions that come to be added to the mountain of the remaining facilities in previous years, business groups, of which only the two tax exemptions provided for in this bill, benefit by EUR 615,000. That's all for the few. Because for many, you don't even give half of them, since that's what you're advertising as a deep breath - it says - with the new tax scales. What's, really, this deep breath? The 15 euro crustaceans, at most - a month for the popular layers, after ten whole years of savage vengeance of tens of billions? Wasn't it that tax-paying that you called it "extreme" in the years of the memoranda? Is that abolished? The opposite happens with this bill. The extraordinary taxes of the Memorandum years - HNPH, the contribution of solidarity, the end of trade - are now permanent and become regular, regular. That's the breath we're talking about! And this is how it is enough for the people to pay over 48,000,000 euros in taxes and business groups not even 4,000,000 euros. 93% of the taxes on popular mattresses, 7% of the capitalists. Very nice justice! Does the new tax change that? Oh, no. On the contrary, it makes it more classic, it makes it more unfair. If one even calculates that, for the new year, the people are being charged - for 2020, that is - with an additional EUR 85 000 000 of indirect and direct taxes, according to the budget, then the size of mockery is also perceived. As for the budget area of 1.2 billion from the state surplus, it is not only that the lion's share grabs it, as we have seen, capital is also that equivalent. You see, especially from whose pocket this equivalent comes out. According to the 2020 budget, it comes from a reduction in the expenditure of Ministries which are exclusively related to the people's needs in education, health and welfare, with the expansion of the tax base, tax-free, i.e., and the so-called ‘realisation’ of objective property prices, which means very simply an increase in revenue from HNPIA. In short, the new tax exemptions of business groups are also paid by the people, with the so-called 'equivalent measures'. In the same bill there are, of course, scattered and other gifts, many gifts for the capitalists of so-called 'green development', offshore and private insurance, who are looking forward to spreading their nets. All this, of course, cancels the government's propaganda of so-called alleviations to the people, since the class division is now on the verge of big capital. Here too, let us say that neither delusion nor anticipation help the people. Every day, every hour, every moment, the bill for the people and their needs comes out of nothing, as long as the competitiveness of capital is at the forefront of the governments' policies. In our view, in order for the people to take real breath, they must fight against their capital and their governments, claim everything they have lost, to throw away the logic of reduced demands, claiming not just the crumbs from businessmen's food, but the whole table, that is, he produces and grabs a handful of parasites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u192	We proceed with Mr. Bubas Konstantinos from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u193	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, too, for supporting MPs as individuals and entities, so that they also have the time to unfold their arguments. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with the title of the bill, where I do not know who your mentors are in New Democracy. For example, when you said "Invest in Greece and other provisions", the title would be more appropriate to say "Investing in Greece and elsewhere", to be sure that the investor in terms of his business, due to the tax system and bureaucracy, would go somewhere else to invest. Or the notorious committee you called 'Mati again' and that is a mistake. You should see it with another eye in general, as with another communication eye. If you want to use a slogan in terms of taxation, because here you are talking about tax reform and 'Greek of tomorrow'. Greece of tomorrow with this tax bill cannot stand by and we are talking about the backbone of the economy, about small and medium-sized enterprises. First of all, as a Greek Parliament, there should be a separate committee on agri-food policy and the economy, which does not exist. There are some other committees that incorporate agri-food policy. Why am I saying that? No article says that farmers will be guaranteed guarantees, particularly young farmers, which will also become a clean register of farmers when it comes to buying agricultural machinery and supplies with a lower VAT rate. I am talking about agricultural tractors, for example - these are the tractors we are talking about in the cathode - to renew the fleet, because there are not only old cars IX used, there are also agricultural tractors. So there is no privilege for young farmers to be able to renew the fleet of agricultural machinery for equipment and supplies, as well as for a wide range of medicines and feedingstuffs, which have a high VAT rate, so that farmers - who do not have a stable tax policy here too - are at despair for both milk prices and meat prices. They change, you know, from a caste of old-age stock farmers, at least livestock farming in Greece. So, as far as this part is concerned, to give some incentive, as far as farmers are concerned, there is no improvement plans. Could the government, for example, because of the Gott Treaty, of this treaty which may come a priori and imports into some products from other countries - Greece has signed it for too many years - introduce the carbon dioxide tax as some other European countries do. So this is how we support Greek products. As far as fishermen are concerned, I would remind you of the three maritime miles provided by the European Union. Because whatever fishing is done by large fishing vessels, you know that, through terminals, they are declared in the European Union in order to protect fish farming and the offspring in the Greek seas and throughout the Mediterranean basin. You don't give any motives. On the contrary, you tax the traditional profession of fishermen and some traditional caicia, which is a point of reference for Greece - now especially the Greek Christmas custom is the Greek caiki, which we must support - the three maritime miles and the famous battle of tick. On the contrary, Turkish fishermen can fish uncontrolledly. We hit them at this point too. Let's go to the waiters and restaurants. At the moment there are federations across Greece, as far as tax is concerned. There is a federation of both Serres and Rhodope and Xanthi and they ask for the hairdressers and restaurants. which is in the sense of the tip - an old insurance law - which now in Greece, because of the economic crisis, has stopped, to change this insurance scheme. To protect workers from collective agreements, but to change the imputed income. You have not given any breath to these people. This concerns waiters and hairdressers. They are from the Association of Restaurants and Associates of Professionals, who have also notified the Office of the Prime Minister what they request since 25 November. Let's go a little bit for regional decentralisation, which each government is evangelizing. Do you remember the New Democracy Government in the Prime Minister Kostas Karamanlis what he said? He said the Ministry of Rural Development would have its seat in Larissa, the centre of Greece, the great Cabo. There has never been such a transfer, so that we can also have a regional decentralisation. Now what does that have to do with tax? Of course it does, gentlemen. If we want substantial self-government, it should be able to pursue economic and social policy, but it also has the necessary resources, as is done, for example, in Italy's strong selfgovernment, with the regiones, namely the provinces and cantons they have. What does it mean? There has been no talk of the fact that part of the VAT will be paid to the municipalities - this has been due by the government for years - if a part of the car tax is to be paid - which the Greek people have soon been called upon to pay for, without any change in the old cars - but also the so-called 'beer tax', which had promised differences in government over the last decade. So local government cannot stand by if it does not have the relevant resources. The proposal is for children's stations to have less VAT if we want to give the guarantees to the new couples who leave their children there. There is no point in giving incentives to new couples. Unfortunately, ELSTAT says last year, in 2018, we had eighty - six thousand births and a hundred twenty - thousand deaths. And mathematically, demographic is a big problem. Greece will be around seven million by 2028. That must concern us firstly, ladies and gentlemen, all. We're going to the Corporate Development Framework Pact in 2027. Due to weather conditions and temperature rise, we will have new structural energy materials in some buildings. You should also give a tax exemption there, not just in turnover, because these buildings should be changed, and above all, tourist facilities should be changed in 2027. The Partnership Pact for the Framework for Development in three areas is moving: as far as green growth is concerned, the reduction of emissions of pollutants, the use of human resources, particularly in vulnerable groups and agri-foodstuffs are concerned. No action has been taken by the New Democracy in its development plan to invest in what is called the "processing stage" of agri-foodstuffs. As regards, gentlemen, non-governmental organisations, NGOs, I see no change in the tax profile of NGOs. This means that if they have revenue from some business donations of 1.5 million euros, all they have to do is run a double-track system. On the contrary, under EUR 1.5 million the only obligation of NGOs is to keep books of revenue and expenditure. It's the global law of the economy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To close, Mr President, no motive for young women's entrepreneurship, for small flexible partnerships with brand name in traditional products in border regions. You should have dared to make geographical zones, because it is a geogeographic matter. I mean, it's another thing to do a craftsman on the Greek-Bulgarian border or on a remote acronym island and another on Kolonaki. In closing with what our President, Mr Velopoulos, has said, there is an announcement from Thomas Aicholder, who is the President of the German Tax Union, who blames various German politicians for losing EUR 100 billion every year. Among these are the former Bavaria Finance Minister, Farrester, who will sit on the stand. That is, let us see that Germany is also taxing 100 billion euros. Besides, the Pirates Party did not accidentally get 13%, talking about scandal and corruption in Germany. This is a debate which has already taken place for Germany. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u194	We close with the first six of the alternating colleagues, with Mrs Adamopoulos Angeliki from Mera25. Mrs. Adamopoulos, come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u195	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the ideological reserve of the economic crisis was mainly based on the narratives "Greeks spent more than their powers" and "we ate them together". This finding was repeated with a huge frequency of anticipated multi-party leaders, mainly the New Democracy and the PASOK. Of course, this option was not random. Instead of the bankrupt political system finding the courage to look into the mirror and finally make a sincere self-criticism, he chose to wash his hands and charge the responsibility for this disaster equally and horizontally to each Greek and every Greek. The same thing you said to us that it was the wise citizen, and so did the battling, and so did the violator of the piece and the strategic bad payer. At the end of the day, therefore, we have all been called upon to pay the bride for the lasting parties for the destruction of public money, the opportunistic tactics of banks and large businesses and the time-consuming choice to protect specific interests of the interlocutor on the people's backs. So in the same logic of unequal distribution of burdens and disproportionate treatment there are two points in the bill that I will focus on in my brief position. Firstly, I shall refer to the question of electronic proof. From 2020 almost one to three expenditures should be made through electronic transactions. Those who fail to cover 30% will be taxed for the difference with 22%. So you realise that, in addition to the global originality of having to spend 30% of its income on consumer expenditure, serious issues of unconstitutionality arise here too. With these options, you will not allow the inviolable core of the constitutional right to the free development of personality and to participate in the economic and political life of the country and the obligation to respect proportionality. You come without the right to force the taxpayer to manage and spend his money in a certain way, and you are finally punishing him by double taxation if he fails to do so for any reason. And I am talking about double taxation, because the calculated income - basic is the gross taxable amount, i.e. without having deducted taxes, advances to taxes, solidarity levies, basic services, etc. In many cases, then, taxpayers should actually spend more than they receive, otherwise you will impose them a double tax. In other words, you are punishing much of the population, or because it cannot respond to something that is objectively impossible or because, as a wise citizen, it demands its right to save rather than overconsuming. And all of this, to come back to tell him that he lived longer than he could, because he hasn't managed to put anything aside for the difficult days. You have wondered why the European Commission has abandoned its attempt to make compulsory use of electronic means of payment beyond a relatively lower limit than is envisaged? Because, after study and consultation over a year, it came to the conclusion that limits on cash payments are a sensitive issue for the citizens of the European Union, many of whom consider the possibility of cash payment of fundamental freedom, which should not be disproportionately restricted. So you come today to legislate exactly what Europe rejected. And, indeed, you also create an internal disparity, since you have not predicted multiple rates in corresponding income scales. Either 12,000 euros or 50,000 euros, 30% remains the same. Of course, here there is a category of business that celebrates with your choice, and that is the banks, which we have always seen lately imposing charges for the use of electronic systems. The same banks, which have been repeatedly rescued by Greek and Greek taxpayers, will now find another brilliant field to charge him to every transaction. I'm going to the next item. Legislation to strengthen the building activity. In principle, it seems like a good idea. But what is worrying is that we do not see any measures to rationalise the property market. Already in the last year property prices and rental prices have begun to fire. In some areas, in fact, the increase even exceeds 100%. The paradox here, therefore, is that there is in no way a similar increase in incomes that would partly justify this trend. So when the banks are going to start lending housing loans again, we all know where this situation will lead very soon: in another bubble, in another collapse of the market, in another bankruptcy. In Merra25 we do not say 'no' to reliefs, but we say 'no' to mortgageing the future of the country with reckless, short-sighted choices, which you are baptizing 'development'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u196	Me too, Mrs. Adamopoulou. As I said, Mr Chakalotos has asked for an intervention. Since we are discussing this bill in two days, I would remind the Parliamentary Representatives that they have 12 minutes of protology, six seconds and three minutes of trilogy. Therefore, they can use their dentistry as a result of the double day. So I'm keeping your time at hand with regard to protology, Mr. Chakalote, and I'm giving you five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u197	Three minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u198	I'll give you five and, if you don't use them, okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u199	I would like to refer to some of the amendments. I won't say the whole argument. I'll tell her in my speech. But in order to have a picture, Mr Minister, and fellow Members and colleagues, and know it a little earlier, I will tell you the following. The first has to do with excluding spending on SMEs. We had run an election debate with the RESEMA, explaining that you put the disability rate at 80%, and our proposal is that this should go to 67%. 67% is obviously not a number we pulled out of our head. It is the rate at which many rights come, because it is judged medically to be an important dividing line. We want you to look at it positively. I do not think the expenditure is too large, the 80% difference from 67%. The other two amendments have a single logic. I will develop because we do not like how the budgetary gap of 1.2 billion is distributed. I am now talking specifically about the six hundred companies. In our view, this goes - and our rapporteur has explained - to large businesses. So our counter-proposal, keeping around the same financial space, is: First, we will vote against the dividends anyway from 10 to 5, which creates some space...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u200	Will you vote in favour or will you vote against?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u201	I will vote against. Otherwise, it wouldn't create any more space. Because, as GSEW says, they are again for very few businesses. The second is instead of a 4% profit tax reduction, from 28% to 24%, we propose 1% for the next few years but also for now 1%.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u202	You mean 1% every year?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u203	Yeah, that's right. Maybe I didn't explain it well, 1% every year. And thirdly, for the rest of the budget area, which you will not make 4%, but 3% plus that dividends will not be reduced, our proposal is to reduce the advance to 85% for both businesses and free trade. That is what I think it will widen how many are gaining from the part you want to be for businesses. In other words, it will be the same pie, but the distribution will be ours. I'll say more arguments later. I think I've kept the three minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u204	For the agricultural cooperatives?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u205	No, I haven't seen it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u206	It's not in the concrete proposals. So we move on with Mr. Georgios Kotsos, Member of the New Republic of Carditsa, former Mayor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u207	Mr President, thank you very much, you have done everything right. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is clear in the Chamber that politics is the art of the practicable and in politics there is no magic wand, with a move to overcome all the sufferings of the past. It is judged by the effectiveness, by the targeting and, above all, by the willingness and will of the current government to change the sad reality that the Greeks experienced beforehand. With the present tax bill for the first time in recent years, however, income taxes, both for households and for businesses are being reduced. The aim of the government, as it has already seen these four months, for a Greece with growth, with stable economic and social policy, is strengthened through the specific fiscal reforms provided for in the bill under discussion. Our country's leap is becoming more and more rapid, disguising the Opposition and the expectations it raised before. We believe in the country's strong sustainable development. We want its extrovert, and that is why we are establishing incentives that attract foreign capital and investors and, above all, will give the Greeks tax breath. On the other hand, we reward entrepreneurship for the benefit of workers and the real economy. We give Greek citizens a real breath with low incomes, no drum impacts and false promises. More specifically, we are introducing a 9% tax rate from 22% that was to date for natural persons, employees, pensioners, farmers, free professionals with incomes of up to EUR 10,000. And here I would remind you that, according to the official figures of '18, six million citizens have declared income of up to EUR 10 000. Those of them who paid tax will see a real, significant reduction. However, other taxpayers will also see a reduction, since income is now taxed on a tax scale. At the highest incomes there will be a reduction in one percentage point. It reduces the corporate income tax rate from 28% to 24%, thus strengthening small and large enterprises. A 10% tax rate is introduced for agricultural cooperative schemes. And you know how important it is for our farmers, which our aim is to organise through collective schemes to achieve better prices, both in the supplies supplied and in the goods they sell. So we have a double objective and dual achievement through this regulation, as we push our farmers into the organisation through collective schemes, but at the same time we also lighten them up with tax. Companies are being given tax incentives to distribute shares to employees and benefits in kind, so that companies are given tax incentives to enable them through the shares that will give them employees to make shareholders, to make them in fact co-responsible for what is going on within the company. Businesses also have the opportunity to grant their employees seasonal cards for urban transport, and there are also tax concessions for buying, renting, renting of cars for anti-pollution technology and thus achieving the most important objective of reducing emissions of gas to the environment. We must not be missed by the serious mediation reduction of the ETUC by 22%, which took place in 2019, despite the fact that it was not in the government's programme and election commitments and yet you see that we are moving faster than we promised in the run-up to the election. Of course, through tax relief in respect of the household, we are strengthening a large sector, which is the construction sector, which, as our rapporteur quite rightly said, employs too many jobs, is a dynamic pillar of our economic life. The extension of electronic receipts to 30% of the actual and not imaginative income of the citizens also limits tax evasion, but at the same time makes participations and businesses through electronic invoicing, electronic books, and that is why they are rewarded with a direct tax refund. For the first time, a measure to facilitate the sale of immovable property is also introduced. Until now, no transfer could take place unless the ENPI was settled, even if this transfer was intended to pay the HNPI itself. It is now possible, through this procedure, to retain the amount due by the notary during the drawing-up of the acts. The number of instalments of fixed debt adjustment from twelve to twenty-four instalments is increasing, and in some special cases it reaches forty-eight instalments. This is how a promise and commitment is made that enables debtors to join the regulations on favourable terms. I would also like you, Minister, to consider this possibility of going to local government as well. In fact, I would say that the regulation of deletion of debts up to EUR 10 not only relieves the citizens who owe them, but also the public itself of bureaucracy. I tell you, as mayor, that many times reconfirming these debts cost more than we would receive from the citizens themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, these are a number of measures laid down in this tax bill, as there are others that our Government will soon bring to the benefit of the citizens, the Greeks and the Greeks. It is, however, a clear picture of tax policy, which is not tax-spiriting, as has been said and as before by the previous government, but has a social and development character. Our ambition is to rationalise the country in all areas. We believe that we can bring Greece a social and political reform that will lead it to strong, sustainable growth with multiplier benefits for all. Anachronistic policies are now a past. We are now putting the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the Government of New Democracy, on solid foundations for a new era of development, development for all, development everywhere. Minister, I believe that this tax bill is moving in the right direction, which is why I call on all Members and colleagues to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u208	Mr Economou John, Member of the New Democracy of the Prefecture of Fthiotidos, has the floor. And prepare the Lords Lentaridis, Vlachos Georgios, Maravegias Konstantinos, Manolakos Nikolaos. Here, Mr. Economou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the years of the crisis, in order for the country to meet its Memorandum of Understanding obligations, commitments, tax bills constituted something like a stalling of the state in the incomes, property and business of citizens. Today they saw the light of publicity the results of an OECD report, which shows that Greece was a champion in the growth of GDP from 31.8% to 38.7%, an increase of about seven points, three and a half points from 2014 to 2018. At the same time, the revenues at the end of this route fell short of the revenues from taxes that we had before the crisis. I'm filing the tables in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Economou, presents for the minutes the tables mentioned above, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Especially when this overtaxation, that is, Greece, became a strategic and conscious choice of the previous government, the situation deteriorated even further. Small and medium-sized entrepreneurial collapsed, late tax debts were launched, tax evasion was not just limited, but bloomed even further. It is important to mention it at every opportunity, and yet today, by discussing a new tax bill, that the tax in combination with the policy of last four years managed to achieve something unique. Work, jobs, all jobs, trade, services, cultivation, sale and processing of agricultural products have been successful. Since the more results you had on your job, the more you worked, not just earned less, but the more you owed. And yet another characteristic, not less important, as a result of taxation over the past period is that, ladies and gentlemen, this has not been accompanied by some kind of qualitative compensation at the level of services, infrastructure on the part of the state to the citizen. It's barely happened, rather the other way around. I say this and I choose with this to start the connection to the tax system from now on, because I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that at some point as a political system we should also be concerned about this, that is, we should be concerned about the impact of the taxes paid by the citizens. Some 47 billion will be the taxes provided for in the 2020 budget. They have the right to have higher expectations than the money they give. But until we get to that, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we must create a system of taxation which does not have the attitude it has had in the years ahead, but it will be a decisive tool, and it will be a tool that will make a decisive contribution to covering the growth gap, but also to the growth of the economy. In order to do so, a sense of justice must first and foremost be restored, namely that the philosophy of fiscal policy is not to take more than the one that is able to pay for it, so that any government close to the elections can buy votes and consciences. It will be to move away from a logic of artificial uniformity downwards, which will compress incomes and increase liabilities. It will be to stop dismantling tax branches of the economy in which the country has a development advantage. Obviously we also need to use taxation to support productive workers, wage earners, people who need it, and above all we need to break the vicious cycle, tax policy, to feed back tax evasion. I am saying these, ladies and gentlemen, because the tax bill we are discussing today clearly goes in all these directions. It provides for tax relief of natural persons, which means an increase in the income available to citizens and households. It provides incentives for enterprises to benefit from the benefits of workers. So it is perhaps the first tax bill that, instead of indirect taxes, as we were used to, has indirect reinforcement of incomes for many citizens, for workers, for people in need. We are making fiscal policy with this bill a tool for attracting investment from both Greece and abroad and reducing burdens on businesses, as is happening everywhere around us. There are targeted interventions in sectors of the economy, in the primary sector, in building activities where we can expect wider benefits. I note that 10% for rural cooperatives for producer groups will come to face a number of market distortions, where producers' incomes are insecure, create unfair competition with organised schemes, and the state will obviously also lead to losing taxes and incomes. Finally, procedures are laid down to cultivate fiscal consciousness and to deal with tax evasion. Ladies and gentlemen, many people ask, ask from Opposition, ask from the business world, ask the citizens, ask whether this bill is enough if it is capable of bringing us to our declared objectives. The answer is that we are taking a first, but very substantial step, a step which, of course, will also continue, which has been specified by the Prime Minister himself. It is a step taken after a very careful assessment of the variables of the economy and estimates of the sizes of the economy in the year it comes, a step that manages to strengthen everyone, others less and more, without stifling the fiscal stability of the country in the air. And, above all, because I think this is the most important one, it is another step in which we reflect the consistency and relevance of our policy, a policy that is perceived by the private sector, the private economy as a vehicle that will lead to economic growth and the ability of the state to share more fairly the new wealth that will be produced. Because both of these together, ladies and gentlemen, create the preconditions for strong citizens, citizens who will not need either the client state or the interests to live and promote what they want. In our tax bill, no one is hurt. It's a bill that doesn't increase, but it's reducing taxes. Most of all, however, to say things by their name, our tax bill gives essential help to the free professions, to the self-employed, to those who have income from their business, regardless of size. This assistance will be crucial for increasing consumption and creating more and better jobs for all. This option, that is to say, that the tax bill will lead to the liberation of the citizen from excessive taxation, is the starting point for the tax to cease acting as a catalyst of declining and extermination of the middle class and creative Greece, and that is a very serious reason why we should support and vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u210	We continue with Mr. Leonardis Theophilos, Member of the New Republic of the Prefecture of Serres. Mr Vlachos Georgios will then speak and he will make a brief, five-minute speech, the Deputy Minister of State, Mr. Skeylakakis, to clarify something from the report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. Here you go, Mr. Lionides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this tax bill is a comprehensive reform for the government's economic policy. After a long period of overtaxation, which during SYRIZA’s governance period was literally invaded, citizens and businesses will benefit from significant reductions in their incomes. The tax reductions are of great benefit to professionals, small and medium-sized enterprises and the vast majority of households. Growth must come primarily from investment and it is key for fiscal policy to reduce taxation on businesses and citizens. At the same time, the granting of a dividend to two hundred thousand economically weak, with income and assets, to families of the long-term unemployed, the luxury and the disabled shows the government's social orientation. However, the most effective dividend for society and citizens is the reduction of taxation. The tax bill, which aims to strengthen economic efficiency and stimulate social justice and is consistent with our election commitments, includes: tax reduction. Sustainable economic development. Transparency and limitation of tax evasion. The transition of the tax system to the digital age. To facilitate and attract investment and capital. Strengthening social cohesion. The new reformed tax scale with an import rate of 9% for natural persons, professionals, farmers, employees and pensioners, from 22% today, will benefit not only those who have an income of less than EUR 10,000, but all of the taxpayers, since their income is scrupulously taxed. Moreover, they are reduced by one percentage point and rates for higher incomes. The government's commitment to business is being implemented, by reducing the tax rate from 28% to 24% for incomes 2019, thereby strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises. The rate of taxation of dividends from 10% to 5% is reduced. A low tax rate of 10% is introduced for agricultural cooperative schemes. The aim is to enable a dynamic development of the primary sector of the Greek economy by setting up new agricultural schemes. We support the family by increasing the tax exemption for each protected child, regardless of the number of them. At the same time, the provision of a EUR 2 000 allowance for each young child born in the country is the minimum to be made following a series of dramatic evidence showing the decline in births. But of course, other drastic measures are needed on the subject and on the problem of demographics. They are exempted from the contribution of all AIFMs with a disability rate of 80% or more, irrespective of the form of disability. VAT on infants is reduced from 24% to 13%. The VAT on motorcycle helmets and children's seats is reduced from 24% to 13%. The maximum number of instalments of the fixed debt arrangement from twelve to twenty-four and, in special cases of exceptional debt, from twenty-four to forty-eight shall be increased. The levying of VAT on buildings licensed from 1-1-2006 onwards is suspended, while the suspension includes the contribution. This will result in the rekindling of the frozen property market during the last decade and can attract investment, increase employment and strengthen the income of dozens of construction-related jobs. The imposition of a capital gains tax on the transfer of real estate is suspended for three years. Incentives are being introduced to carry out expenditure relating to the energy, operational and aesthetic upgrading of buildings, including a 40% tax reduction for expenditure on the projects concerned, with a total expenditure of EUR 16 000, equal to four years. Reimbursement or remission of the excise duty established for wines which up to the last day of the entry into force of the excise duty on wine, i.e. 31 December 2018, were not available for consumption. From there on, the bill includes measures to strengthen tax compliance and to extend electronic transactions, such as the obligation of employees, pensioners, freelance professionals and incomes, which make expenditure equal to 30% of their actual income by electronic means. In this regulation, there are exceptions to certain categories of taxpayers, such as those who have completed the seventh year of their age, those with a disability of 80% and other categories, especially in villages with up to five hundred inhabitants and islands with a population of up to three thousand. Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time we have a tax bill that reduces taxes as a whole, rather than increasing them. This results in an increase in earnings in employed, retired, self-employed, traders, craftsmen, other tradesmen and professionals. The course of the economy is now at an important turning point. All indications converge that growth, which remained anaemic until last June, has entered an upward orbit. The Government of New Democracy is on the front of the economy, with the main aim of improving the economic situation of the citizens. The reduction of HPAI, the increase of the heating allowance, the hundred 20 doses, the tax reliefs and a series of positive measures and changes in all sectors send a message of hope to the market and the citizens that the government puts the economy on a stable track, encourages entrepreneurship and supports, in essence, the middle-class, which has been so diagnosed in previous years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u212	Mr Vlachos Georgios, Member of the New Democracy Parliament, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that we are debating and which we shall be voting on tomorrow is not another tax law. His vote marks a change of course after putting an end to the policies of austerity and cutbacks. It's the first tax bill that doesn't, it doesn't cut, nothing by anyone. Instead of increasing, as was the case in the past, income taxes on households and businesses in all previous years. As a result, everyone wins something, that is, that ultimately improves their everyday lives. It is the bill that marks the relaunching of the Greek economy, which enables every household, every professional, to plan the next activities and plan its future. The miserable approach of counterpopulation is an exception to the rule. And the rule is that society as a whole, as expressed during the committees by the dozens of representatives who came and participated in the consultation, like the media, is that they all welcomed the new tax bill positively. It is no coincidence that no one in fact asked for the slightest withdrawal, the slightest correction, of any provision. Some may have asked for something extra. But no one rejected anything about this bill, which means everyone understands they have something to wait for. This, of course, was the result of a very serious work and preparation done by the Ministry of Finance, implementing the policy we had announced before the elections to reduce taxes and support any initiatives with a development dimension. No one imagines and, above all, does not claim that there are celebrations on our part. What we are saying and implementing is, of course, a fairness of our policy and, above all, aims to send out a message of optimism and hope throughout society, which for many years has been afflicted, deprived, disappointed and which we now want to see in the frontline of the overall effort, an effort, which, based on the policy of the New Democracy, the Government, aims to improve the living conditions of all our fellow citizens. Everyone, like I said, wins from this bill. This balanced policy, which does not talk about many and few, but about the whole, such as our pre-election promise, is questioned by the opposition, which today resorts to individual examples, to question our effectiveness, since it does not have the political courage to admit what the Greek society admits. What does Greek society admit? What do citizens see? They see a reduction in income tax for all natural persons. They see a reduction in the income tax rate for all enterprises. They see workers streamlining the method of taxing options for acquisitions, for which goodwill from their exercise will no longer be added to the taxpayer's other income. They see the tax-free for every protected child growing by 1,000 euros. They see VAT being reduced in infants. They see VAT falling on motorcycle helmets. They see doses rising from twelve to twenty - four and sometimes from twenty - four to forty - eight. They see clarification of the tax housing legislation and an alternative method of taxation of foreign-born income is laid down. They see the suspension of the application of VAT on buildings with a licence from 1-1-2006 onwards, while the suspension of VAT also takes over the contribution. They see, in the context of sustainable development, introducing a package of measures to promote the use of public transport and vehicles of zero or low pollutants. They see in the area of corporate social responsibility that exemptions are extended in the calculation of salaries and pensions for the benefit of all pensioners. They see the reduction of bureaucratic tax and tax administration and business, while benefiting taxpayers. This is therefore a coherent bill, with tax reductions for natural and legal persons, sectoral policies, policies for workers, corporate social responsibility policies, sustainable development policies, policies to reduce bureaucracy, policies to tackle tax evasion. Its aim is to support workers and businesses, strengthen entrepreneurship, attract investment and thus create new jobs. So that is what the citizens and them, that is, the citizens, are shaping the good climate, which is a precondition for the continuation of the smooth path to the development of the country. We have gained the confidence of our fellow citizens, regardless of what they voted on in the elections, because they see an integrated policy, with the beginning and end, an integrated policy rather than a fragmented policy that they have seen in recent years, a policy with a strong reformist figure and concrete actions aimed at producing multiplier benefits for the economy and society, to strengthen Greece's position in the international environment, to strengthen a fair fiscal policy for citizens and businesses, and, at the same time, to stimulate extroversion, by creating a friendly environment for attracting investment. So this bill is the cornerstone of an integrated policy that the government is implementing, with a view to the strong and sustainable development of the country and to upgrading our quality of life in a new economic environment. A new economic environment, which will provide opportunities and opportunities for all households and businesses, with benefits for the many, with the many, in other words for all of us. Finally, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to raise a point which we have discussed in the last few days. You know - and there may also be other regions of Greece - that in recent times in the Municipality of Saronic and Lavreotikos - especially Saronic and especially in the Community of Saronidas - there are objections to property owners who are claimed by the Regional Department of Public Property Attiki non-project properties in the municipalities of Lavretic and Saronikos, but also within a project such as Saronida, based on 1151/1872. Mercy! Mercy! Let us stop afflicting the citizens, citizens who have built within a plan for decades legally and who have been coming to claim property in 1872! With these moves, with these initiatives of administration, the state, the country cannot go forward. And when we discuss a bill, and we say we set up issues for the next day, uh, let's take a look at picking up these remnants that are shame and brake for what's good for the place. We must not trouble the citizens who claim self-evident. End the hostage, unexplained, hostage incomprehensible by certain services of the Greek State that have been left in 1872. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u214	Luckily it's not in 1821, we had an anniversary celebration. Mr. Spockakis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a brief speech on a few comments on the issue of electronic transactions and the legal aspect. The proposed provision stipulates that the amount of expenditure required by electronic means of payment is set at 30% of the actual income and that any burden will be related to the failure to achieve this rate and will always be calculated on the actual income side. So the provision concerns income, for the simple reason that if anyone does not have income - and indeed, really, not implied - there is no burden. The basis of this provision is therefore income. Now, a similar provision had been passed by parliament and in 2016, with Law 4446/2016, which changed the law of 2013. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] The purpose of the provision is solely to deal with tax evasion. Tax evasion in Greece is the most serious form of inequality. We have 33.6% tax evasion, the second largest tax evasion in Europe, and there is also growth trends. Please note that in the 2020 budget, the objective set for revenues of 557 million from electronic transactions only relates to revenues from tax evasion. If there is a burden on citizens who will not achieve the objective, it will be collected in 2021. So all this - 557 million - concerns tax evasion. This amount has been analysed and accepted by the institutions too. This goes on to say that it has been accepted by both the ESM and the European Central Bank, the ECB, and by the Commission. It has very strong technical support for tax evasion. Why am I saying that? As far as tax evasion is concerned, and the amount is so great, it is clear that the proportionality, which the Scientific Council of the Parliament invokes, is absolutely achieved. You have a measure that gives you a huge amount of tax evasion. Now, as to how this is happening, because there is, possibly, a misunderstanding: I read in the Scientific Council's report that it is not sufficient to justify how, in transactions for which the relevant tax documents have been issued, their repayment using electronic means best serves to reduce tax evasion. The answer is very simple. Documents may be issued, as is the case with cash machines. And a few days ago, it was proven by the AAD that a large circuit that made counterfeiting of cash machines was arrested. We are talking about a hundred businesses and 25 million euros of hidden taxpayers. When they are fake, and we all know that cash machines are hacked - then, of course, you can only catch them by electronic transactions, because the POS will not be hacked. You can't escape tax if you pay via POS, which is the vast majority of cases. Therefore, and technically it turns out that the measure is necessary, not only because it gives a strong counter-incentive to citizens not themselves to take part in tax evasion - because tax evasion is like tango, it needs two - but also because it prevents counterfeit documents. The conclusion, therefore, is that this is a measure that is absolutely proportionate, so completely constitutional and that it hits the tax evasion which, if you want, is the biggest cause of violation of the principle of equality between citizens established by our Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u216	We also thank the Minister for keeping his time. I call on Mr Maraveya Konstantinos from New Democracy and from Magnesia Prefecture.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u217	Thank you very much, Mr President. A year ago, ladies and gentlemen, in December 2018, I watched as a simple citizen, not in politics, the debate in Parliament on the state budget. So I was listening to the Parliamentary channel to the rapporteurs of the then co-population talk about the end of the memorials and that the memorial era had been supposedly begun. They also said that they saved the country and that they had taken us out of the third memorandum, in which, of course, they had put us in. It was nothing more than hollow celebrations that simply continued at the same wavelengths as Zappaio phenomena, painted Alexis Tsipras and Panos Burned loved ones at the time. Of course, this reality had nothing to do with what I lived in my special homeland, Magnesia, both me and my fellow citizens. She was a country that was afflicted by lies and amateurs. It was the so-called memorial Greece that existed only in the commercials issued by SYRIZA. This propaganda of 2018 was also continued with the fake images presented by Mr. Tsipras and in 2019, when he spoke in the election about fair growth and gave the famous gift he usually gave on Christmas spring. And he did it to buy out the vote of the Greeks who thought they were naive. And some today come and ask for the change from the New Democracy Government. Since then, of course, it may not have flowed too much water into the groove in time, an important event has passed, that of the elections. In the first half of 2019, citizens found that this SYRIZA propaganda, on exit from the memorials, was not worth the paper on which you printed it, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. Some of these voters - like me - decided to go down to politics to support Mr Mitsotakis and the truths he told the Greek people, these truths that made New Democracy Government on 7 July and made the country change page and economic course. Incentives have been restored, stability has been created and the government has shown credibility both internally and abroad. The radical change of political sample, not only in the words but in practice, was the result in just five months: Greek and foreign investors internationally highlighting the country's growth potential and an unprecedented consensus that runs the Greek society and recognises the efforts of the new government, a society that is surprisingly finding that the New Democracy is doing much more than these few - it is true - which had promised to election to the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, precisely this change of course in relation to previous governance, another policy, more serious and measured, expresses the bill that we are discussing today. So you don't see any Minister promulgating a Easter gift on Christmas. We have left all this behind fortunately. Today we are talking about a serious and weighted set of measures that focus directly on the result. And the anticipated result for the government is nothing more than the relief of citizens and the livelihood of businesses. This tax bill takes some immediate measures to revive the economy, such as introducing the import tax rate to 9% for natural persons, free professionals, farmers, employees and pensioners from 22% today. This reduction, of course, favours not only those who have an income of less than EUR 10,000, but all the taxpayers. They are also reduced by one percentage point and the coefficients for all other incomes. A low tax rate of 10% is set for agricultural cooperative schemes aimed at alleviating them and at the same time developing and encouraging the primary sector by setting up new agricultural schemes. EUR 1000 duty shall be increased for each child protected, irrespective of their number. All disabled persons with a disability rate greater than 80%, regardless of the form of their disability, are exempted from the solidarity levy. The levying of VAT on buildings with a licence from 1-1-2006 is suspended from now on. And the suspension of VAT includes the contribution. The value tax on real estate transfers is also suspended for three years. Incentives are being introduced for the realisation of energy, functional and aesthetic upgrades of buildings, especially by granting a 40% tax credit for expenditure totalling EUR 16 000 over a period of four years. I am referring entirely to some of the immediate implementation measures, leaving the solidarity levy and the trade end, which have a four-year horizon and for which of course future government communications will be made, along with the unbundling of new tax reductions for 2020. Mr President, I would also like to conclude with a personal comment. As an independent doctor I entered the previous four and a half years, as well as millions of our fellow citizens, in the range of new taxes and contributions imposed by SYRIZA. I watched fellow scientists and free professionals working for a thousand euros in the pocket to keep 200 euros in their pocket. I watched employees and pensioners accept unfair cuts due to increased reservations in their salaries due to reductions in the Katrugalos Act and so on. So you will allow me to say, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that I cannot reasonably follow what you say about the new tax. It's like you're plundering each other into excellence, when I hear about tax for the rich and about the middle class attack and similar extreme screams. It's like you didn't understand any of the four-and-a-half years you were in the government, like it didn't spend a day from 2012 and the opposition you made at that time. For us, this foreign-representative tactic of Officerial Response is particularly convenient, because it guarantees that you will be there for a long time. I fear, however, that this is not beneficial for the country, because the country needs a serious, responsible Opposition. That is why only the New Democracy Government has already been vindicated by the citizens. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you, too, can follow our example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u218	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they attend the meeting, after being informed of the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIZELOS", twenty-six students and students and two teachers from the 2nd Gymnasium of Egypt (first section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The speaker of the New Democracy in the 1st of Piraeus, Mr. Manolakos Nikolaos for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the tax bill we have before us today is the fulfilment of our commitment to a new policy at the heart of which is the reduction of the taxpayer. This tax system gives breath to both the small and medium-sized ones, which have been ruthlessly hit in recent years, and to companies who have been forced to put a padlock on them which cannot cope with it. Ladies and gentlemen, you have argued that low and medium-sized strata have nothing to hope for from the New Democracy policy and the new tax bill. You spoke about class choices at the expense of the weak, when your own policy in the years you have ruled, it was a tax bleeding with an unprecedented tax-suppressive character that the citizens of our country have not seen. You claim that you have launched many of these changes, which we see today in this bill. But you didn’t have the time and equipment to make it happen. And you are coming today to talk about allegedly promoting and strengthening the interests of certain groups at the expense of the small and medium-sized ones and the economically weaker ones. What class options are you referring to? The bill is of particular concern to the multitude and people with disabilities through its beneficial provisions. It has a tax reduction of EUR 1 000 for each child and an exemption from the solidarity levy for those with a disability rate of 80% or more. Who do you think these provisions should apply? The financially powerful? Does the additional VAT reduction for infants from 24% today, at the low rate of 13% and EUR 2 000 for each child born from 2020, to deal with the problem of birth and, in general, the demographic problem, help the weaker? We are reducing the corporate income tax rate from 28% today to 24% from 2020. We are reducing the tax rate to 9% from 22%, which is now, for natural persons, freelance professionals, employees, farmers and pensioners, favouring almost all of the taxpayers. Inside, however, so many reductions, we also have an increase. A perfectly correct increase, though. Increasing balm, I would say, for society, free professionals, the tried middle class. The maximum number of instalments of fixed debt adjustment from twelve to twenty-four instalments and in specific cases - except exceptional debts - is increased from twenty-four to forty-eight instalments. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy has made an election promise to a simple, effective and fair tax system that will not have any allergy to investment. But instead, it will be attractive to those who want to come, bring their money home, investing and ensuring decent jobs for thousands of our fellow citizens. So the time has come for her to act and for her promise, because we have not given more and others to do. Electionally we said to all tons that we disagreed with the mixture of SYRIZA's economic policy leading to the persecuting of businesses, the migration of new scientists, our children abroad and, ultimately, the disappearance of the middle class. Because it is good and necessary to redistribute the pie, but it is even better to increase it, in order to then redistribute it even better and even more fairly. Ladies and gentlemen, through the draft legislation we are reducing taxes on all Greeks, increasing income to all Greeks, replacing economic inefficient and socially unfair economic policy with a fair tax system that will make the status of extreme overtax in the past. It will strengthen entrepreneurship and finally set the foundations for a growth leap that the Greek economy so much needs. In conclusion, I take the opportunity from this Step forward to give everyone the following consideration: Good and positive any tax reforms. They are indeed paving up a new path to change the economy page. But are they capable of doing this on their own? To attract foreign investment, we must, of course, along with the appropriate tax policies, prove that Greece is a fully free country from the gears of bureaucracy, which applies speeds in the process of issuing necessary permits and certificates of start-up of businesses. Also, to create a justice system that can quickly solve any problem that is present in the week or in months, but not in years that are today, because tax reforms, ladies and gentlemen, must go hand in hand with brave decisions where the greatest pathogens are identified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u220	The reason is now that the New Democracy MP, Mr Stefanos Gikas, has been speaking for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that today is a pleasant day for the New Democracy, for our resignation, because we cannot avoid comparisons. We all remember, Greek citizens remember, judge and compare. I remember very well, like all of us, this infamous programme of Thessaloniki in the 2014-January 2015 election process, when Mr Tsipras and SYRIZA went to power. They had already cost it, and it was 11 billion in benefits, and they told us that it is fully effective and practicable. Greek citizens voted for Mr. Tsipras and in the next few months and years what they received was nothing but 11 but 12.5 billion taxes, measures, contributions, Memorandums, Overseas, cuts, etc. We're coming to today. All the time before we took over the country's governance, through a laborious effort our party contacted the citizens, listened to the citizens, listened to the experts, listened to the pulse of society, looked to find out what is going on abroad, that is, best practice and prepared, in any case, a government programme, which took into account the Greek citizens, contacted it and, of course, in the elections of 7 July in a festive way, this programme was adopted. We are pleased, ladies and gentlemen, today, that our very important promise, which is to alleviate taxation, is to act. And it is done in an absolute, correct, unequivocal way that no one can say that this bill does not reduce taxation, does not make it easier for households and does not make the effort of this government to develop. All the previous Members have referred in detail, I would say, to the favourable provisions of this bill. And I will not avoid saying a few words about some of those provisions which are, indeed, essential and useful. We are making our commitment to reducing the import tax rate for incomes up to EUR 10,000 to 9% from 22% today. This, of course, applies to natural persons, to employees, to pensioners, to farmers, to free professionals. The reduction favours all taxpayers. Why? Because income is taxed steeply. We also committed ourselves to reducing the corporate tax rate from 28% to 24%. Today we're doing it. That is also important, because if you put the advance on a business, it is important to profit. So there's an increase in the income available. Also, in order to support the primary sector, the low tax rate is introduced to 10% for agricultural cooperative schemes, while the advance payment of income tax for legal persons is reduced to 95% for 2018. I would remind you that SYRIZA increased this figure from 55% to 100%. In addition, dividend taxation is reduced to 5%, with what this implies for the benefits it will have. We are now going to what all our colleagues have said and have something to do with our demographic problem, because with what measures this government has taken now, this government is helping in demographic terms. What are we doing? We are increasing the tax rate by EUR 1,000 for each child protected, regardless of the total number of children. Moreover, all disabled persons with more than 80%, irrespective of the form of disability, are exempted from the solidarity levy. Of course, there is also a reduction in VAT in different kinds, such as in infants, in children's seats and helmets for good reasons. An important, innovative article is that which refers to building. You know, the building was earlier - and I think it is now - one of the driving levers of our economy. Too many jobs, over a hundred jobs work with building. So this government comes less than five months after the takeover of power and what does it do? It inhibits VAT on buildings licensed from 1-1-2006 onwards, as well as the capital gains tax on real estate transfers. It's an important arrangement. Also important - because time is running out - is that the fixed rate is now increasing from twelve to twenty-four instalments for debts, and if these are exceptional, then we will go into forty-eight instalments. It is a very important regulation that will give encouragement to businesses, but also to natural persons in which there is a problem. So, Minister, with this bill, we are implementing another one of our election commitments and of course I call on you all to vote for it, because it is in the positive direction and I am sure, Mr Minister, that other bills of good will follow for our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u222	I call to Stepma MP Xanthi of the New Democracy, Mr Tsiligiris Spyros, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the tax bill we are debating today is of particular importance because it aims to bring the country back to high growth and at the same time to lower the taxation of households and businesses, those who, in other words, have lifted the burden of the economic crisis. This draft law is consistent both in the election and in the programming commitments of the Government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, proving once again that the New Democracy fully respects the confidence shown by Greek citizens. Under the heading: "Forum Reform with a development dimension for Greece of tomorrow" it is understood that the bill opens the way for a Greece with growth and prosperity, through the reduction of taxes, sustainable economic development, transparency and the reduction of tax evasion, capital attraction and strengthening social cohesion. A Greece that is strong and competitive at European and international level and not just an observer of developments. In particular, the introduction of an import rate of 9% for natural persons, free professionals, farmers, employees and pensioners from 22% today, together with the increase in duty rate of EUR 1 000 for each protected child, regardless of number, the reduction of the EMI and the improvement of the framework of the hundred and twenty instalments already made, will lead to an increase in the available income of all households, especially those with lower incomes. These reductions should not be seen as a gift, but as a reward to our fellow citizens, who have lifted the burden of the economic crisis, but also as a way of rekindling the market, through an increase in the income available. However, these reductions also have another important objective, which is to give incentives to address the problem of inheritability in Greece. So the tax-free bill for each protected child, as well as the reduction of VAT on infants from 24% to 13%, supports the Greek family and looks forward to the recession in the demographic problem, giving incentives to new couples. As a father of four children I know very well how important these provisions are for a family and how beneficial they may be, so that we can limit our country's demographic problem. In addition, the reduction of the corporate income tax rate from 28% to 24% for the 2019 income, practically strengthens all businesses by encouraging healthy entrepreneurship and the creation of new jobs, so that our country returns to normality. Also, the introduction of a low tax rate of 10% for all agricultural cooperative schemes will enable the dynamic development of the primary sector of the Greek economy so much needed by our country and, above all, the region, so that primary production is further developed in a way that is sustainable, modern and more efficient, demonstrating greater extroversion and competitiveness, by creating new agricultural schemes. Another important element of the tax bill is the provisions on direct foreign investment. The net influx of foreign direct investment in Greece was in 2018, according to the Bank of Greece figures at EUR 3.6 billion. Although 2018 was the third year of continuous growth in Greece, this does not mean that they are sufficient for the needs of the Greek economy. According to OECD figures for 2017, the total accumulated inflows of funds from direct investment to Greece represented only 16%, while at the same time in Portugal at 59% of GDP and at OECD member-state level in 44% of GDP. It is therefore understood that attracting foreign direct investment is essential to the growth of the Greek economy. For this reason, this draft law clarifies the taxation legislation, an alternative way of taxing foreign income is introduced, with a payment of an annual flat-rate tax in the case of investments of more than EUR 500 000 over three years. While the income tax exemption and the solidarity levy of interest on corporate bonds listed on a regulated market are provided for. In this way, and with a stable economic environment, Greece is becoming even more attractive to foreign direct investment, with the main aim of approaching the levels of other European countries. Another very important element of the draft law is the forecasts for relaunching sectors of the economy. It is a common assumption and has also been confirmed by statistics that building activity in recent years has been experiencing a huge crisis of more than 90%, resulting in adverse effects on more than a hundred jobs, but also on wider economic growth. That is why relaunching sectors of the economy with a significant contribution to GDP, such as economic activity, is particularly crucial for the country's development. In this respect, the tax bill, with the suspension of VAT on buildings, with the permission of 1-1-2006 and thereafter, points out that the suspension also takes over the contribution, as well as the suspension of the capital gains tax on the transfer of real estate for three years, is aimed at boosting the liquidity of building enterprises, leading to the renovation of the economy and the immediate dynamic rebooting of the construction industry and especially of small and medium-sized enterprises engaged in building houses. Unfortunately, time is not enough to refer to the other beneficial provisions of the tax draft, such as strengthening sustainable development, strengthening corporate social responsibility and limiting tax evasion. However, I would like to end by stressing that the New Democracy Government has given the signal of the new economic policy, which includes fewer taxes, more investment, more and better jobs. This tax bill is a bill that puts our country into development, relieves all fellow citizens, restores our country to normality, lays the foundations for tax justice, social solidarity and support for productive Greece and confirms once again that the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis will continue to make its commitments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u224	I call to Stepma MP Evros of New Democracy, Mr. Dermenzopoulou Christos, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u225	Ladies and gentlemen, after a ten-year economic crisis that has left our print on Greek society very strong, we have to vote for the first time a tax bill which does not contain any tax increase in its provisions. On the contrary, we are moving towards a series of reductions in taxation, both for households and for businesses, in order to relaunch the Greek economy and increase the growth rate of the country. In this light, the tax bill proposed today by the Ministry of Finance incorporates the core of our pre-election commitments in relation to tax policy, while at the same time reflecting the liberal ideological signal of our ideological ideology in the management of the economy. In particular, the provisions of the draft law include a number of measures to alleviate the tax burden on all economic operators. In summary, the bill includes the reduction of the tax on large and small enterprises for 2019 from 28% to 24%, the introduction of an import tax rate for all categories of workers at 9% from 22% currently found, and the reduction of the tax advance for all natural persons. It is of the utmost social importance to reduce VAT on infants from 24% currently, at the reduced rate of 13%, as well as to exempt all AIFMs with a disability rate of 80% or more. A special reference is also the introduction of a low tax rate of 10% for agricultural cooperative schemes. This initiative not only relieves professional farmers of tax burdens, but effectively strengthens the competitiveness of the primary sector of the Greek economy and encourages the creation of new agricultural schemes. At the same time, significant incentives are being created to attract foreign investment, as legislation regulating the transfer of foreign nationals' tax residence to Greece is being simplified, while at the same time reducing the tax rate of dividends from 10% to 5%. Special emphasis is placed on strengthening sectors with a great contribution to the GDP of the country which had suffered a sharp decline during the crisis. More specifically for the regeneration of the building sector, which has been the engine of the Greek economy for years, VAT is suspended on buildings with a license from 1-1-2006 onwards, while a 40% tax is paid for costs relating to the energy, aesthetic and functional upgrading of buildings. Furthermore, the tax bill is in line with international and European practices, introducing generous tax incentives for companies that adopt policies for the benefit of sustainable development, while at the same time moving towards corporate social responsibility actions, such as providing unrestricted travel to the public transport of workers and financing specific actions with great social benefit. Particularly important intervention in the direction of transparency and the fight against tax evasion are the arrangements for strengthening and extending electronic transactions. In particular, employees, pensioners, freelance professionals and incomes should bear costs equal to 30% of their actual income by electronic means. It should be noted, however, that specific categories of taxpayers are excluded from this provision for social reasons, while at the same time for the fairer application of the measure in the calculation of actual income, there are not a number of costs, such as the amount of the solidarity levy, and the amount of the diet of divorced spouses or child. Finally, the bill focuses on reducing the tax burden on public administration and business, and a number of write-offs of legal and natural persons to the public are being introduced. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a joint observation that there cannot be sustainable economic growth without a stable and functioning tax system. The logic of the new tax bill is precisely that. With reasoned and targeted tax reductions it is trying to boost the economy, while in a number of key reform interventions it aims to strengthen our country's position in international labour-sharing. Unfortunately, during the long term when the bill was in public consultation, the Civic Opposition adopted a sterile and counterproductive attitude. In particular, the criticism made by many SYRIZA officials that the tax bill we have submitted does not provide sufficient support for the middle-class of the country, lacks seriousness and credibility. The outgoing government, which, according to the admission of its top ministers, exaggerated for ideological reasons in the middle-class, cannot today, a few months after the election, play the self-invited defender of the middle-class social classes. Society at all measurements welcomes our economic policy, as it knows that with the current budgetary environment the government has exhausted all the margins it has had in reducing taxes. At the same time, it is our commitment that during our government service and as the economic climate in Greece is further improved, we will proceed to even more generous reductions in taxes and contributions. Ladies and gentlemen, the tax bill tabled by the Ministry of Finance is a truly worthwhile tax reform, as it improves the economic environment, significantly strengthens the growth potential of the national economy, while at the same time strengthening social cohesion. For these reasons, I am voting in favour of this, urging the House to do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u226	Mr Katsafadas Konstantinos has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u227	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as the previous member of the New Democracy has said, ten years have passed to finally have a new tax bill, which will not bring new tax burdens, it will not have a collective logic, but it will be a bill that will reduce taxation, it will be a bill that will have a development perspective, but it will also have a social sign. I understand the anguish of the Officerate, an anguish stemming from the economic policy of the current government. And what is that, ladies and gentlemen? What did the SYRIZA government say to us in previous years? That it increases taxes, we have huge surpluses that didn't even ask for our lenders, but it protects the socially weak. And what did we have as a result? We all become poorer, drown and level growth and shrink the Greek economy. This bill shows the other way and, of course, breaks down all this myth that SYRIZA had cultivated to cover the extreme overtaxation that experienced the entire Greek society. So, in order to cover all this, ladies and gentlemen, both the rapporteur today and the one representative of the SYRIZA - why have no others yet spoken of the Qualificational Opposition - so much in the committees, what were you trying to get us through? You were trying to pass on to us that we are inconsistent with our election commitments. So you have asked a five-month government, which reduces taxes, makes all this effort, reduces all the taxes that you have imposed. In five months, everything you had been tearing down in four and a half years! How fake that is. Of course, you are also going to another friendly tactic, to try and give class traits to this bill as well. We don't, you say, protect the middle class. It ended the argument that Mr.Mitsotakis, which we heard before the election, will come and reduce the tax. He passed the argument that Mr Mitsotakis will come and proceed to a pogrom of redundancies. Mr Mitsotakis, however, came to us, ladies and gentlemen, and to all those who had the enormous income of 10,000 euros, from 22% of the tax reaches 9%. For these rich people, you are obviously talking, ladies and gentlemen, that we are serving for these EUR 10,000 fat wallets, which experienced this extreme overtaxation and taxed them with 22%. So we come to restore order and be able to help all Greek citizens. Because all these measures brought by this tax bill are horizontal in nature. So we come here to help the low-wage, the low-retirementist, the free-trader and give him a breath. As I breathe, ladies and gentlemen, the reduction in the tax on legal persons from 28% to 24%, while respecting our commitment to reaching 20%. Because if you're trying and you can make a business stand firm on its feet, so you're allowing the employees who are in this business to look forward to even better pay. This enables you to combat unemployment even further, which affects Greek society. That's the reality. As for reducing taxes on dividends, I think it is another development measure that this government brings, so that it can help business and entrepreneurship. Everything that's about reducing infant species from 24% to 13%, I think it's not just about the rich, it's not just about the havings. I think we all have children in this Greek society and I hope that we can combat demographics in an even greater way. Same goes for the helmets. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not just the reductions, which are made in taxes, as I said before. It is also the development effort that we want to give through this development beginning, which we are trying to do in the economy, through this bill. It is extremely important that the Minister of Economy has said that we will also have further reductions in HNVIA, so that the real estate of Greece can gain even greater value. All these decisions which have been taken to suspend the tax on building permits, for goodwill and for suspension for three years, are also important, but also for the energy upgrading of all these buildings with a 40% subsidy. We must strengthen the building, ladies and gentlemen, because it was the engine of the Greek economy, because there are dozens behind it, hundreds of jobs, but also because the property of the Greek citizen will be able to regain value. Also, a goal that goes through this bill is to redefine the concept of tax residence which provides incentives for the taxation of capital coming from abroad. In particular, a flat-rate annual tax is to be paid in the case of investments of EUR 500,000 over a three-year period. The contribution of 0.6% of the contribution to the Factoring and Leasing credits is also abolished with a view to reducing the cost of financing small and medium-sized enterprises, but also to introducing tax incentives for the creation of holding companies. It is also very important that we reduce taxation on new agricultural cooperative schemes so that we give new momentum, new strength to what has to do with the primary sector. But also socially, who may not give congratulations to the government, when every Greek citizen, who has a child who is sadly having problems, can have the discharge we are making in the 80 % solidarity levy or the tax-free aid for every young child for 1,000 euros? These, ladies and gentlemen, are phrases which give the social sign of this government. So I close, ladies and gentlemen, in the hope that you will not stand miserable and petty at this very important moment in the Greek Parliament, when after ten years we are all trying to give our best self in order to be able to cure mistakes of the past and to give a new momentum to the economy, but also to restore the law, the sense of law that is necessary in Greek society. So leave your ideas, look realistically at the problems we have to face and come and put back on because our country needs it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u228	The speech has been made by MP Kavala of the New Democracy, Mr. Amiros Lazarides, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, tax reform in Greece. When one heard this term, it was certain that he would take the title as a rounded-off wording for the imposition of new taxes. But the news is good. First, SYRIZA doesn't rule anymore. Secondly, this is the draft law that we will be voting on tomorrow. It's reducing taxes. I repeat, it reduces taxes, it doesn't increase them. And the reduction concerns the many, especially those who have often suffered disproportionately, the burden of the economic crisis. Well, I'm starting again. Tax reform in Greece, Act 1, July 31, 2019. The relaxation of the ideoleptic nipple the SYRIZA government had put on the neck of all Greeks. How? Reduction of HAFIA, key to the middle-class, mid-weighted to 22%. Result? About four million fellow citizens have seen the difference in their pockets in September, even earlier than we had promised in the run-up to the election. New favorable regulation of a hundred and twenty doses, a measure also important to the middle class. And if you add the abolition of capital controls, in practice, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, not to words, then it is easier to understand the breath we have given to free professionals and businesses. And that was just the beginning. Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No Instead of increasing, as in previous years, income taxes on households and businesses, for pensioners and farmers. It supports entrepreneurship for the benefit of workers and the real economy. Incentives attracting foreign investors are being introduced. That's what we're doing. The main pillar of the draft law is the tax relief of natural persons and businesses. I'm on it. Tax reduction, import scale from 22% to 9%. The first great benefit is the self-employed and the farmers. Let's see what this reduction means to a farmer's pocket at the Myrtophytos of the Pangaios or the Nestos Sources. So a farmer with an income of 7,000 euros has so far paid a tax of 1,500 euros a year. Now it will pay 630 euros, that is to say it will benefit more than 900 euros. And if the profit from the reduction of HPAI is added, the benefit exceeds EUR 1,000. I am continuing: $1,000 for every child. I am continuing: important business tax interventions, 24% from 28%. I'm continuing: Reduction of the tax on dividends from 10% to 5%. Ladies and gentlemen, you must know this. These regulations are not just a few tax reliefs, to say that we have reduced taxes. It is the targeted way in which we shield our values, but we also act our vision of dynamic growth for each Greek and every Greek, for innovative entrepreneurship, which above all motivates the new generation, for a social fair policy that divides and does not stand out, which corrects and does not level. Let us see a typical example. The introduction of a low rate of tax for agricultural cooperative schemes gives President Stavros Arvanitakis and the members of the Rural Fisheries Partnership for the Seas of Keramotis, in my constituency, Kavala, the opportunity for them finally to work better, more efficiently, more competitively. Furthermore, these people celebrate as we reduce from 10% to 5% the annual rental of areas for fisheries cooperatives. And that's not the end of the route. We have shown that our commitments were a political contract of honor with the citizen, without any drawbacks, without delays. Be sure that there will also be other acts in the work of tax relief and, therefore, growth in that country. And it is not only the recent statement by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis that, in the next year, there will be other tax reliefs for reducing the EMCDDA but also for contributing solidarity. I recall his commitment from September 2017 to the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, as Chief of Police Response, to secure a stable tax system for at least five years. Today, ladies and gentlemen, Kyriakos Mitsotakis is the Prime Minister of all Greeks and Greeks. With drunken interventions it implements one by one measures that change the everyday life of all and the image of Greece. And of course, the escalation of the new tax reality will also include the final goal of the New Democracy Government for two VAT rates, 22% and 11% over a period of four years. These may be considered data, since the consistency of words and actions here of this government is not to be proved, it is a daily reality that all Greeks and all Greeks live in. The tax concessions we will be voting on tomorrow will make the landscape truly flexible, functional and more attractive to households, entrepreneurship, investment. They will alleviate the middle class from the throat of irrational tax evasion of the previous four years. And we might agree that in normal circumstances this would not be the occasion for celebrations, but I stress the 'under normal circumstances'. The conditions, as we all know, were not normal, not only because the country experienced the consequences of the economic crisis, but because everyone and the middle class suffered the cruel, unfair, irrational consequences of governance SYRIZA - ANEL. The middle class has been severely punished, ideologically targeted, or rather I would say that it has been called ideologically, it has been devastated to the limit of extinction. You also admit it yourself or at least - I see him in the Chamber - the internal party opposition to Mr Tsipras under Mr Tsakalotos. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to restore the creative uplift not of many, but of all. For the first time, there is a government that looks into the Greek society horizontally, because the low and middle layers are the trunk of the country, they are the lungs of everyday life. Be sure that at the end of the day we will share total growth dividends through rational management rather than overtax practices. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, we are proud of our ideological consistency, but also of our political practice. Yes, we are planning and working in the service of the vast majority of Greek society, something you have never done and we are implementing our political intentions dedicated to our common future and the future begins now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u230	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, twenty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd High School of Egypt (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I give the floor to the Deputy of the Second Thessaloniki of the New Democracy, Mr Varzopoulos Dimitrios.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me explain from a different point of view why the draft law we are negotiating today is really the only way to become a normal European country. If we really want to modernise the only way is to reduce taxes, start reducing taxes and reducing them as often as possible and radically as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2017, based on OECD figures, the country's total tax burdens amounted to 39.4% of gross national product, while the OECD average then was 34.2%, if I am not deceived. The countries of Europe, which asked for more of their citizens, were France, Denmark, Belgium, Sweden and Italy. While, for example, the United Kingdom and Germany were asking for less. This means that the unfortunate Greek taxpayer was in a worse position even than those Germans. This unfortunate position, however, is still more dramatic if two other factors are taken into account. One of these factors is revenue. On the basis of the OECD figures, and as you will like, we measure them either average wages or hourly labour costs, but the revenues of Greek citizens were below the OECD average, for example, were much lower even than countries, which are considered to be in a much worse economic situation than us. What matters is that at the top of the pyramid it was all these countries, which had the highest tax burdens. It is quite simply in those countries that citizens paid more or paid more, but they also earn a lot more money. Things become even more unfortunate for the unfortunate Greek taxpayer if you see another factor, the consumer price index. In the consumer price index, in the famous household basket, we are well above the OECD average. We are more expensive than countries such as France and Germany. We are about equal, like Finland and Italy. What does this mean, ladies and gentlemen? It means that while we win a few, we are more expensive country than much richer and we pay more taxes than most. This means that even if we were a normal European country we would have a great deal of difficulty with our purchasing power to support the demand, which can and should be the only one that actually supports growth, so that we too can have an improvement in our economic situation. Unfortunately, however, ladies and gentlemen, we are not a normal European country, because in addition to the official expenditure which I have mentioned, there are other informal expenditures, and in major areas such as health, education and welfare. Let's catch the first of these areas, health. There are also some statistics here which indicate that 7.2% of the average income of an average Greek family, an average household, is spent on private health costs. The average in Europe is about 1% to 2%. This is, of course, due to the fact that in Central Europe, when you want to go to the doctor for anything that goes to a contracted doctor with the funds of his country, which is too many and that covers all the expenses of the fund. In England, where there is a different system, he goes to the doctor's family again for free. Here, as you know better than I do - and I know it quite well as a doctor - if you want to serve quickly and correctly, you have to go to a private doctor and follow the terrible system called 'fee for service out of pocket', which means that I am paying from my pocket the doctor directly and I get the evidence to the extent that I get them and therefore the statistics I have mentioned have the reliability that they have. Apart from that, however, there is also the second sector, the education sector. You will know, as I do, ladies and gentlemen, that there are few students who even get the state certification of language education without foreign language schools outside the school. What the average Greek household pays from the third high school and then for their children to enter higher and higher education institutions is also known. The twelve thousand requests for rewrites show what it costs to the middle Greek household to study the child outside the city when we have the homes we have, when we do not have scholarships, when we do not have student loans. What does that mean? It means that there are private expenditures here, which ELSTAT determines at 3.2%. How much that responds to things I leave in your judgment. And there is a third sector, the welfare sector. There is no statistical information here, precisely because there are no measurement possibilities. If a Greek household, a family has the misfortune to have a disabled child, especially with severe neuropsychological diseases that are the most disabled, this post-special school child is only served by the CSRs, which operate through ESRD with vouchers. This means that they partially meet the needs. And if these partly cover the needs, the needs of the helpless old people, i.e. old people who have old age or general old age problems, they do not cover them at all anything other than the nursing homes and the private psychiatric clinics, which are demanding a lot more monthlyly than the old or old lady has to make available with his monthly pension. This means that their children are either obliged to pay from their pocket the ladies of the neighbouring states who take what they get or sit at home for them to take care of their money. So there are other unseen expenditures that I leave in your judgment. What does it mean, friends and friends, all this? It means that the only way to support demand is to lighten taxes, the only way to modernise ourselves is to lighten taxes, because that is the only way we will have growth through growth alone, we will have those revenues that will enable us to build a true European welfare state, that is to say, to make us a normal European country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u232	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Spilios Lebanese, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr President. Today's bill, ladies and gentlemen, is emblematic. We are for the first time reducing taxes and setting the foundations for the economic regeneration of our country and for sustainable development for all. We strengthen the competitiveness of the economy and stimulate social justice. We demand collective prosperity by investing in economic freedom. We are in fact proving that liberalism leads to support for many and especially the weakest. Election has made a commitment to bring strong investment growth to Greece. The KINAL rapporteur, Mr Arvanitides, who is not here now, said that we are waiting for growth only through tax reductions. He mustn't underestimate us. We are moving in particular with a five-axle plan: security and stability, the armouring of institutions, reforms, a strong banking system, free of red loans - the bill is coming - and, what we are discussing today, the financial mix by reducing taxes and contributions. Since the first day we took over from governance, we have been doing just this policy. The results are tangible and concrete. Change the economic climate, low lending, apparent increase in confidence in the Greek stock market, increase in investment interest. The most recent data we have yesterday is that the Greek State borrowed for the first time at a negative interest rate and in the semester notes after the two times we borrowed at a negative interest rate in quarters. Also approved by the Eurogroup was the return of EUR 767 million from Greek bonds' profits, while the fourth Community surveillance report, the most positive of all of what has been done for all the supervised, highlights the positive reforms and the substantial change in the economic climate in our country. SYRIZA, who today has given up on us, has left behind - and we all know that now - a budget gap of about 400 million in 1919. He practically threw his budget out. The Government of New Democracy has not only covered the gap that it received from SYRIZA, but has also created an additional financial area which allows it to proceed with reductions in taxes and social benefits from the first year of government in 1919. That is why it is funny - you will allow me to express - what the SYRIZA rapporteur proposed just before the Chamber, that we are supposedly eating from the ready, that we supposedly delayed bringing in a tax bill by five months. So we have already taken a series of positive measures all this time that we have been delaying, which you know very well and of course all the Greeks have felt in their pockets: HICPIA, heating allowance, 100 20 doses, sixty thousand widow pensions, abolition of capital control, etc. And now we are gradually giving the social dividend targeted at the weakest, starting with the long-term unemployed, the multitude families and families with disabilities. What we are proving through this policy is that social sensitivity and real economic development are going together. The citizens, ladies and gentlemen, now know that the Government of Mr Mitsotakis is implementing more quickly than its plan to alleviate households and businesses. With our election speech and post-electional consistency, we prove that populism can be defeated by political liberalism. We moved against SYRIZA's populist choice to redistribute poverty, oppress growth in order to create unbearable surpluses, exaggerate the middle-class class, and accumulate overdue public debts, in order to share money and benefits in complexes and voters' groups. It is clear to us that the option is one: reducing overtaxation. We have come to an election for this, and we are now doing so, because we believe that this is the only way that real economic growth will come. The SYRIZA - ANEL government then incompetent and ideology overcompensated households and businesses. In 2016 citizens suffered the biggest increase in the annual tax burden among all OECD countries, while in '17 the burden was even higher by increasing indirect taxes. SYRIZA, with its "proud negotiation" and the 'heroic' half-15, imposed on the country ten billion unnecessarily and charged it with some 100 billion. Labour has been taxed very high, to the extent that taxation itself is the greatest incentive to work itself. The fact is that for net earnings of EUR 40,000 the state is taking away in our days through taxes and contributions about 60% of the amount paid by the employer, the highest of every other country among the Member States of the European Union. In the OECD Taxing Wages Report, Greece took the thirteenth place of thirty-six countries for the total tax burden on wage earners income for 2018. But, ladies and gentlemen, if you allow me, the most important problem is not there, in this overtaxation. It is precisely in the low tax return. And this - we have seen it happen in previous years - we must look very seriously at it and our government from now on. Citizens are constantly paying increasing taxes and contributions without receiving the corresponding benefits back. While citizens' tax capacity, services and benefits enjoyed by the State have been exhausted, they do not improve. And when we say about services and benefits that the state is obliged to ensure to citizens, we mean all of them, from health and education to infrastructure, the efficiency of the state and justice. This is the most important problem for all citizens, of course the weakest and, of course, the much-discussed middle class. Be careful, however, because there has been a lot of dialogue lately about the middle-class and what it consists of. Instead of recycled and committed to efforts to define it and to fight about the income that identifies it, let us put all this energy and our political capital essentially in support of it. This is the basic priority of this government, without, of course, forgetting our non-preferential and weak fellow citizens. Personally I understand the private sector employees, the unemployed, the civil servants, the self-employed, the retired, the students, the farmers and all those who wake up every morning and fight for a better future. As we said with Mr Amyras, exactly the Greek householders, that is, the vast majority of our fellow citizens. That is what we consider to be the backbone of our economy and our society. I firmly believe that only a strong and creative middle class guarantees growth, shields the institutions of democracy and protects against populist aberrations. We are all addressing them with this bill. Of course, as I pointed out before, to our unprivileged and weakest fellow citizens. We are establishing a framework for tax relief and strengthening, precisely in this middle-class that I have described, which is the main prerequisite for economic growth. At the same time, because we are conscious of the strength of the free economy leading to prosperity and social justice, we are also introducing measures for businesses. The amendments proposed by SYRIZA and analysed by Mr Tsakalotos a few minutes ago show precisely this different conception of entrepreneurship, of the free economy, of its dimension to social justice and development for all. It is not the duty of the parliamentarians to comment on it, the government will comment on it later. I just wanted to place myself on the dimension of these ideological backgrounds. I would also like to mention in detail, such as many of my fellow Members, the rapporteur and the State Secretary before, the measures we take. Because it is one of the best moments for all Members to finally support tax exemptions. But respecting time, I won't. I'll leave it to talk about it again when we keep bringing these tax exemptions in the future. Some colleagues from SYRIZA have asked if tax reductions in this bill are exhausted. The answer is clear. Of course not. We will not forget our declared goal of reducing - and ultimately we wish to be able to abolish - the solidarity levy. We have, as our immediate priorities, a large reduction in the advance payment of the tax gradually, as far as we can. I wish we could do what you are proposing today, which, of course, you are the ones who doubled it in the years of your governance, the tax relief for employees, which we also have as our priority. We are committed - the government has already committed itself - to reducing business tax to 20% of the 24%, which we are now doing for the next year. Ladies and gentlemen, in closing, I would like to ask a sincere, simple question, without actually being confronted. All these days, and there are enough of them, in response to the accusation that there was not enough consultation on this bill, we have not received a clear answer because even some of these tax exemptions are not voting on them. Even now at the end, because, from what we have understood, you are not going to vote on them, give us a good explanation, but above all address the Greek people, and tell him why after so many years of this tax policy that has prevailed in our country you are not with us in this tax relief. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, too, for keeping time, with the request that all Parliamentary representatives keep this year. We have a hundred registered colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs is tabling its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'Following the State Budget for the financial year 2020'. I will give the floor now to the Member of the New Democracy in the 1st Region of Thessaloniki, Mr. Simopoulos Stratos, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u235	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the last five months in this Chamber it has proved to be a great deal of difference for the parties and the view that the parties have no differences, especially the two large ones, is inexperienced and wrong. In all the bills we clearly saw different views, different points of view: From the abolition of asylum, the way in which it was adopted, until constitutional reform. Such a bill is today, which highlights the enormous difference between New Democracy and liberalism by SYRIZA. What has SYRIZA's government been doing in recent years? Constantly, with intensity, he increased taxes and paid allowances. And we have today a bill that reduces taxes and, in fact, creates jobs. This is a very important difference between the two parties. At the same time, while the government received a budget which had no margin, i.e. it found the financial area, it started to reduce taxes by the end of July, and in such a direction it is constantly moving. It doesn't change Roots. It is constantly reducing taxes and reducing taxes it also finds a financial margin. At the same time, the reduction of these taxes is developmental. I will particularly focus on the exemption for three years from VAT for the first time from VAT for the sales of those homes and their licence has been issued after 2006. It has been heard in this Chamber that construction employs a hundred jobs. I had before done a study, which showed that it is not a hundred, is three hundred, because there are many jobs that are costly behind the building, which are not at first sight. In the same direction, tax exemptions for investments made in residential areas in the energy saving sector are the same. There probably, Minister, we could have been a little more brave. However, a very important step has already been taken. In addition, the laws on the taxation of residents from abroad actually satisfy this need, the country's need, by firm steps, with reforms in different areas, to move towards growth. We also have a number of important regulations here, which have been said here before, such as the reduced tax on agricultural vehicles or incentives for the supply of electric cars, as well as the reduced tax on newly-born businesses. Minister, it is true that, as far as tax advance is concerned, we must do everything we can - I do not know if it is a matter of the aftermath, actually - move more quickly and more bravely. We also brought arrangements concerning the disabled and the multiples. I would remind you, in a parentheses, that if we continue that way, in 2050 out of ten million, we will only be eight and a half million. Thus, in the multitude we have abolished the unacceptable luxury tax. However, we still have steps to take in this direction. Probably too quickly to be able to abolish the solidarity levy or the end of a trade. I shall also refer to an issue which does not concern many, but I believe that, even if it facilitates one another, it has a role to play and is important. You know that there are enterprises that are small and which have accepted the 'haircut' of bonds. And these operations now work. And I'm not talking about big business pharmaceuticals or banks. We still have tax depreciation for 30 years for these companies. I think that we need to'strengthen' these businesses and 30 years to become one or two. In conclusion, because a colleague spoke from this step on public goods, I think we should look very carefully at the Open Public Services programme of the British Conservatives. The Open Public Services programme enables multiple options, which are the cell of liberalism, either in the private or in the public sector. It is very important with the voucher method - we have already done so and we have solved the problem with regard to children's facilities - to do so for other public benefits. We can do this, for example, in the 'Help at Home' programme. With regard to the British Conservatives, Mr President, even the public bodies take this voucher. And if they can't cover their expenses with vouchers, they're closing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u236	I will give the floor for seven minutes to the New Democracy MP, Mr Kella. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement will then be given the floor, Mr. Loverdos and then the Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution for six minutes because his President spoke. Here, Mr. Kelles, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the government is working out its programme for a light Greece of tomorrow and, at the same time, is facing, in the most effective way, the major external challenges, which are due both to the aggression of Ankara and to immigration, which is an international issue, for which, of course, our country is a little responsible. It is unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen, for the Greek Government to fight abroad for national issues and internal opposition to the opposition on the part of SYRIZA. And, of course, we must not forget that we have opened up the borders for your days and said, 'Come on, welcome' and that the control of man has escaped, as has also been the case for your days that the northern borders have been closed down. And since we are primarily Greek and the ideologies are coming, it would be nice to go in the national interest rather than the political survival of the Progressive Alliance. Ladies and gentlemen, following the reduction of HPAI, the improvement of the hundreds of twenty-dollars, the reorganisation of the public administration towards the formation of the executive state, the lifting of capital controls, the reconstruction of digital governance and the transition of justice to the digital age, as well as to the investment law, our Government is now rapidly implementing a crucial set of commitments, exempting households and businesses from unfair burdens, strengthening the economic activity and the conditions for our country's development. First of all, for natural persons, professionals, farmers, employees and pensioners, we reduce the import tax rate from 22% to 9% for incomes up to EUR 10,000. This regulation, of course, will not only favour those with an income of less than EUR 10,000, but all the taxpayers, since, as you know very well, income is being taxed on a scale, while the rates are falling by one percentage point and the higher income rates. As the Minister pointed out, and the employees and pensioners in the income category from EUR 12 000 to EUR 18 000 will have a reduction from EUR 80 to EUR 200, while the average free trader will have a tax reduction of up to EUR 1,300. At this point I would like to point out that there is also a significant increase in duty in support of the Greek family, which is the pillar of the nation's development. As we had previously committed, we are increasing, with this draft law, duty-free for every child, while in the budget that we will be voting on in the next period, a allowance of EUR 2 000 for each child's birth is provided for. In addition, we said that we would reduce VAT on baby goods from 24% to 13%, which is also the case with this draft law. And because I have the honour of chairing the Special Standing Committee on Road Safety, I would like to mention the corresponding VAT reduction from 24% to 13% for children's seats and motorcycle helmets.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u238	And bikes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u239	And for cyclists, Mr. Amyras. Of course! I would like to thank the Minister for directly implementing our commitment, because road safety is a very serious issue, which concerns all of us. At the same time, for businesses, we are reducing the tax rate from 28% to 24%. As the government's financial staff has stressed, we are firmly committed to reducing the rates of legal persons in the coming years in order to strengthen the competitiveness of Greek businesses. In particular, we support rural entrepreneurship and rural development, introducing the low tax rate of 10% for agricultural cooperative schemes, which will free the productive forces of the primary sector and favour the setting up of new businesses in the Greek region. It is also planned to reduce the tax rate of dividends from 10% to 5%, and to reduce the tax advance from 100% to 95% in 2018 for tax advances received by the SYRIZA government to 55% in 2015. At the same time, we give oxygen to a sector particularly affected by the crisis, the building industry. In particular, the levying of VAT on buildings - even since 2006 - has been suspended, including the contribution, and 40% of the tax is provided for energy, operational and aesthetic upgrading work. Furthermore, the imposition of a capital gains tax on the transfer of real estate is suspended for three years. Overall it is estimated that these measures will rekindle not only the industry, but also the ten professions, which are directly linked to it. Furthermore, it should be noted that there is another measure, which concerns winemakers and merchants throughout Greece. It is foreseen to refund or delete the excise duty established for wine, which until the last day of validity of the excise duty on wine, i.e. on 31 December 2018, had not been released for consumption. It's a fair measure and good for the government that does it. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is, as it says in its title - a tax reform with a development dimension for Greece of tomorrow, a reform that we are voting in favour of, in the face of the decisive steps taken so far by our Government to bring about a strong and sustainable development for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u240	Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Loverdos, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start my speech by making two references to the unacceptable and illegal attempt to reach an agreement - as President Erdogan called it - of Turkey with what he calls himself a Libyan government without being. And I say 'he calls himself without being' because, as it is known to all of us, this government produces a valid reason and decisions for the smaller part of Libyan territory, for the part that the rich regions of that country do not lie and above all for all, politically speaking, of a 'like government', because there is no Parliament to support it, since Parliament has shifted to the rebellious side. So this illegal attempt to reach agreement, as opposed to the Law of the Sea, with all its appearances and versions and all its issues, the Memorandum, as they call it, needs to find a strong, strong Greek attitude to the face. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not what we have called 'Turkish provocation' for decades now. Don't get locked up in a routine of expressions, which captures a routine thinking method. This is not a provocative thing. This is a brutal violation of sovereign rights. Of course, it is right that we should move very strongly across all international organisations and the forums. I am talking about the United Nations, about the European Union above all, about NATO with the problems it has, but I am also talking about forums, such as the International Conference on Libya. In fact, its next meeting is in Germany shortly. Erdogan needs to understand that he's isolated. On the other hand, the sovereign, the main, the first, is that he must understand when he speaks with the Greek Prime Minister or his own officials with our own, that here is a country which will not accept anything that this phrase means. But to say that, and if you have to, you have to be united. And if the political forces are united, they must be informed. Without consultation requiring information, common information for everyone, unity cannot exist and be a stiff producer of positive developments and, above all, of power in relation to the issue we are talking about. That is why our President, Mrs Gennimata, has called for the convening of the Council of Political Heads. There have been several objections to this proposal, all unfounded and above all all all the objections to leakages and separate declarations. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not all have the same experience in this Chamber on foreign policy issues. However, since I have a few or several of them, I assure you that, whenever a body of the Hellenic Republic was convened on such matters, the so-called national and foreign policy issues, there was no leak. I am referring to the National Council for Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence, when it meets behind closed doors. And in order not to be general and vague, I would like to inform you that on this issue of supposedly an agreement as a perspective, a debate had been held in 2018 at the National Foreign Policy Council, which we caused as a Change Movement and I personally. In order to be fair and correct, I must remind you that the then representative of the New Democracy, the Ambassador, Mr Savvaidis, has made similar speeches. I brought the matter back - Minister was Mr Katrugalos - in spring 2019, asking for a special meeting of the National Foreign Policy Council to see whether we should prevent Turkey from moving forward. As a producer of positive developments, our proposal has not been heard. We have also informed the new parliamentary links and the new government about this dangerous prospect, again we have not been heard. I do not mean in any case that the ministers or governments have shown indifference. But I can claim that this has been underestimated. So there is a great need to establish a common tactical and common strategy, to see what our possible moves are. And that is a form of assistance, that is, that the government accepted a proposal from the SYRIZA to convene the National Foreign Policy Council. We're not saying no, but we're saying that's not enough. And that's not enough because we just understand it as a protagonist of convening the Council of Political Heads. I repeat - and I close with this - this is not a Turkish challenge. This is the signing of a so-called agreement, a memorandum which presupposes a violation of the country's sovereign rights. It is an illegal and inadmissible one at all on the energy points on the part of Turkey and the so-called Libyan Government. On economic matters, and in particular on tax issues in the draft law, let me be allowed, ladies and gentlemen, a reference to a matter that is not within this framework, but is within my competence. There is at the moment a mobilization of twenty-four fired people from Piraeus Bank in the most abrupt way we have seen in recent years, the most abrupt way! I have no time to describe the situation that has happened. I have secondary information, and I confine myself to sending a message by the attending Ministers to the relevant Minister. Mr. Katrinis informed me about the details. He can highlight them in his position. But the present ministers must inform the Minister for Labour that industrial relations cannot be interrupted so sharply. This is not an honest arrangement of industrial relations. It's her exact opposite. We are concerned about the issues that concern us, and I will now say. I had made a position in July and said that for what the newspaper reports say about the disbursement of hundreds of millions of euros as a return from the profits of central banks by Greek bonds, the great ANFAs and SMPs. We heard that yesterday's Eurogroup decision disbursed these things for Greece. This is a very positive move. And we're not politically gypsies not to say good. We must stress this because it is in everyone's interest. However, the Greek Government - and rightly so - stressed that this money is not related to our budgetary policy. They will not, in other words, go to the revenues of the Hellenic Republic for the 2020 budget. But they'll be dedicated to investments. I return to my speech in July 2019, because the report that the government lets it to form, is that these refunds, these disbursements may also give financial space. And I said that this can't be done, it won't happen, and it won't happen. It is good that these disbursements exist, but it is not about the country's budgetary issues. I therefore emphasise these disbursements as a positive fact, but it does not relate to the revenue and expenditure of the Hellenic Republic for the year 2020. Minister, in the debate of the Committee on Budgets we said that we cannot go further if we do not have the relevant tables in relation to the ratio of indirect and direct taxes. Until the 2018 draft budget, ladies and gentlemen, there was a clear reference to the text on the relationship between indirect and direct taxes. I do not need to explain in this Chamber how classic indirect taxes are and how much the reason should be in favour of direct taxes rather than indirect taxes. But this painting was eliminated, lost from 2018 onwards. And the reason why we have been given is that the European Commission does not need it, that it has changed the way it is calculated and that the table has been deleted. I, Minister, ask you, until tomorrow, to vote on the tax draft law - because that also comes from this law - to give us the relevant table. Mr. Skolakakis said he'd bring him. We still haven't seen that painting. We therefore want the relative ratio for the years 2017, 2018 and 2019 as well as for the forecast on the basis of your 2010 budget. Because our own arithmetic actions come to very sloppy conclusions on this relationship and on the basis of the tax draft law and the 2020 budget. I would also like to highlight something Mr Arvanitides mentioned. Why is it that households with incomes of EUR 20,000 to EUR 30,000 - since Mr Stavros gives us the configuration of the middle classes in the OECD - there is no single euro for relief? Mr President, since July I have been saying that the most unfair measure that SYRIZA has taken us has been the 100% advance on income tax for the following year. This was outside the limits of a reasonable democratic state, a hundred percent and we had denounced it. When two parties brought about the reduction of the ENPIA, we and Mer25, said that this is the most unfair measure we should be concerned with in the budget that comes. And we saw 100% get 95%. No, I beg your pardon, we propose with the amendment we have tabled, because the measure is almost one off - we say two years - that is, once and for all, a percentage this year and a percentage in 2021, and that we reach 50% of what SYRIZA received from the Samara - Venizelos Government, which is human and reasonable. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the 100% advance is made on the basis of this income which the next year, at last, may not be repeated, it may be smaller and it is for a free professional extermination indeed. You do nothing more than take it from 100% to 95%. Mr Levane, because you criticised Mr Arvanitides: is this a development measure? It's not. Is that why he told you? I followed him and because I am not a man of exaggerations, especially in the economy, told you that when we plan a tax draft law and a budget, having suffered ten years Greece, the Greeks and the Greeks, we are also looking at his developmental side. It's not only enough to reduce taxes, it takes other measures. It is necessary to reduce the tax on recruitment, for example. It is necessary to reduce the tax in relation to the quickest depreciation. It is a package that guarantees growth. You are making a criticism that the Arvanitides criticism was somewhat strict in this area. That means that on very specific terms, say 24% we will tell you no? I don't know what you're gonna vote for. Because I hear that...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u242	We're waiting for answers, Mr. Loverdos. We haven't got any answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u243	The beans are counted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u244	Yes, Mr. Alexiadis, but you have a 28% increase that becomes 24%. We cannot say that this is a good thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u245	Please don't have a dialogue between you guys.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u246	Mr President, dialogue is positive. We are trying to do some of the things that are heard and which are positive to be unanimous, why should we not be? 24% is a positive measure, and we will obviously vote on it, but our criticism is that it is not enough, it must be combined with others. Mr President, I will also raise two issues and conclude with one, one and a half minutes and thank you very much for your understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u247	If it's so much, I'll understand it. Don't get over it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u248	That's how it will be. Let us go to the solidarity levy: the government is right to say that for the disabled, over 80% of this contribution is abolished for the disabled. Okay, these people, however, are few. Shouldn't you add the micrologues we crushed when the PSI took place? They were not at all to blame for anything they had even in the years of the crisis, they invested in the credibility of the Greek state? I, Mr Tsakalote, asked Mr Juliarakis why he was in charge, and he did not come to answer me once if he is in the spectrum of his policy. I asked Mr Stournara questions and asked questions why I lived through this. Since 2015, and after your government has never answered, he has never answered. The Samara - Venizelou government replied she would see it, but she didn't see it. Shouldn't we at some point tell them we see them, look at them, are we concerned? I am not saying that we should return sums, because this will give rise to problems with the others who have cut their bonds, but I say that this solidarity has been expressed in a pragmatic and bloody way. So there is something we can show there in connection with the solidarity levy. However, the gradual abolition of the solidarity levy does not result from the regulation of Article 18 of the draft law. Finally, reference has been made to this famous measure concerning the transfer of tax dwellings. Mr. Arvanitides has been extended. I will not get ahead of myself, but I will say that while the measure sounds good and intelligent, we weigh the consequences of the measure in the Republic of Cyprus and we look into it with an insecurity - not to happen here too - and on the other hand, we wonder about the Greeks who carried their tax house in 2011 feared and want to bring it back, why should they be excluded? He says Mr. Stavros will see it sometime later, but it would be an opportunity...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u249	Finish, Mr. Loverdo. It's been two and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u250	Mr President, may I say my last sentence? If you'll excuse me, if you won't allow me to go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u251	Finish it, it's your last sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u252	There is also the theme of stock options. Since I do not have time, Mr Secretary, I would like to tell you this: a businessman with EUR 35,000-40,000 in income if his tax classification is changed due to a bonus is 36% to 46% tax and a member of EUR 100,000 is charged with 15%. Is that medium-square support or a fox on some who have enough? I want you to see this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u253	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u254	In the way you have shaped it, you are directed against the literally middle-sized ones in this area, work and for those who have the least needs. I will give you the relevant analysis, and if I have a dentext, I will develop it. It's just like that. My briefing is both primary and secondary and I am also at your disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u255	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, thirty-three students and students and two educational attendants, from the 3rd Gymnasium of Agrinio (first section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, Mr Konstantinos Hetas, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u256	I'll take the time Mr. Loverdos left. Thank you very much, Mr President, I will be very brief because I respect colleagues and the list of hundreds who are patiently waiting. It will be very brief, because both our President and our special speaker have analysed our positions in detail. You will allow me to mention two - three points only on the bill that are a priority and, if you like, red lines. One of these is the reduction, Minister, for example, of the solidarity levy which will have a direct effect on wages and pensions. These are matters which we need to see and see today until tomorrow when it will be voted on. The further substantial reduction of the EMCDDA and its gradual abolition are relief measures for the Greek citizen. We are going on a matter of great importance, Minister. You will allow me, because I think we all have this sensitivity, and not just me or us as a party, but all of us: the total exemption of multiple families, for example, from tax contributions. The full discharge will be a right and a brave move on the part of the government of your own that you have the right to legislate and make decisions. I have listened with pleasure to the abolition of the luxury tax for the multitude. I have here the letter sent to you by the polyteces and writes "Athens, 13-11-2019". One was the luxury tax and the traffic charges that you did so, and I have to tell you that it was a very good step. With regard to the solidarity levy, which we say should be abolished and the exemption from the trade fee, and not just, I just want to say something to you: Do today, Minister. Free these people from all such taxes and not only that, give them bonuses to give birth, because demographic is what will drown us. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] Our nation is gone. Take the big step today. Until tomorrow when we vote, you have a chance. Give bonuses, not only to abolish all kinds of taxation for multiple families. Give them bonuses. Greece, Minister and honourable Members, you all know - and the Greeks who listen to us today - emits SOS, sinks, loses like a nation. We all know. We're not giving birth. Give an incentive to the world and not just EUR 2 000, what we say about anyone who is giving birth, but no taxation. After all, how many, Minister, are these multiple families. They're two hundred thousand families. The world isn't lost. I would like to tell you that the population, ladies and gentlemen, has fallen by thirty-four thousand Greeks. We had eighty - six thousand births and a hundred twenty thousand deaths. I mean, we were reduced by thirty-five thousand in a year. ELSTAT says that. Alarm, bells ring! The OECD warns that we will be under ten million in the next few years. Dare, dare, get rid of it! Give bonuses and relieve all taxes of all kinds from the multiples. How much does it cost to the state budget? Ask the General Accounting Office of the State today, now, where we are. How much does it cost? These are two hundred and eight thousand Greek families - those are the official figures of the Hellenic Supreme Confederacy - which we need to relieve from everything. You say that with one child, 800 euros, two children save 900 euros, three children 1,100 euros and 11,000 euros tax-free. Where does the poor guy live with three children and two of them five, 110,000 tax-free? Remove tax-free. Let people live. Give the Greeks the opportunity to give birth to the young children, to our generation and to the generation of our children to give birth to Greeks. We're getting lost. It's not much, Minister. Today you have a historic opportunity, Mr. Besiropoulos, and you and Mr. Stagioras, who are legislating, staying in history and applauding you all of Greece, the whole nation. Free the multitudes from all forms of taxation and give more bonuses, save our homeland! We share unconsciously money as a state for all those who come, who do not know who they are, and without inviting anyone to violate our borders and enter our country. And for all of these, we pay 550 euros a month, we give them food, we give them care, we give them housing, we vote laws that we say "Get the rest of your family here", for every Islamist, every Moroccan, every Afghan and we have Greek "the searcher". Oh, no! It's not too much. Take it off and pay the Greek multitudes and give incentives to giving birth. It's your big chance to get into the pantheon of history. And here we will be, applaud you. No steps forward! Big step for the nation, for Greece and for our country! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] You will allow me, I will end in a minute, two - three comments on what happened yesterday and on the provocativeness of the Turks and Mr Mitsotakis' meeting with Erdogan. Our view is that for such important issues that are not like the previous ones - because we had at least twenty years to see such a challenging and marginal situation in Greek-Turkish relations - Mr Mitsotakis must inform the political leaders. They asked for it, I think, all the parties in anti-population. There are no personal cases in national matters. Here there is a common line, Greece must move unified, against this restless neighbour named Turkey. Already today, we are 'fruit in the face' that they will continue the agreement, this illegal agreement they signed, with Libya, and will not retreat to the issue of the agreement with Libya. And we must have a Greek army, Mr. Vésiropole, ladies and gentlemen, strong, organised and not a Greek army that has become "Filippines" of illegal immigrants and gives the General Staff of the Army 1,5 million euros to buy five thousand beds and bed linen for illegal immigrants! The "Philippines" of illegal immigrants has become the Greek army! The General Staff pays 1.5m euros, while Greek armed officers and officials buy their arbyls from their pockets - because every three years they pay the state - we distribute money to illegal immigrants! I heard what you said, don't think I didn't hear. The Greeks will pay HISBIA, traffic charges. We have fifty thousand Greek homeless. Fifty thousand Greek homeless we have! Fifty thousand! Shouldn't we take care of them? What poaching is this now! What poaching is this I can't understand! And a brief comment on Exarches, because I've said it many times before and I'm done. You said you'd clean it up in a week. It was, and it's very hard. It's been five to six months, we still had issues yesterday. Today, we are preparing again for war, unfortunately, with these bazaars we are not saying to marry them, to clean up one and the Exarches and all the other ghettos of Athens and Greece. On the other hand, we should, of course, all decide together that we are in favour of legality and that, in our universities, only students have a place, and not the bollocks, and they have no reason to break and break public property. And let's say that, one side that tries and we say "law and order", and the other side, which for voter's reasons, to pet the ears of its clients, all of a sudden, the pain has caught her now for the bollocks and for those who have been ruling for four and a half years - I've told them from this Step - with the MATS hugs, because you dare not go out on the streets.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u257	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u258	And now all of a sudden, it's bad for the police, your past partners, to rule, and now you're back with the douchebags! You should at least be ashamed of what you're doing or what you're saying! No one forgets the ending tear gas to those protesting in Prespes, no one forgets the wood that the Greek people ate...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u259	Mr. Colleague, you've gone far beyond your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u260	I'm done, Mrs. Sacorafa. And I happen to always say what you don't like when I'm done! I'm finishing up, honestly speaking. So no one forgets all those who ate regular from the MATs and the powers that SYRIZA then directed, all those who protested because they lost their homes in auctions. That's what you think before you talk to the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u262	Madam President, the 'Philippines' issue should be deleted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u263	I think he should ask himself to delete these.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u264	I'm asking!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u265	It is a phrase used.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u266	You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u267	Madam President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u268	It's not personal, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u269	No, it's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u270	I would like to ask you very briefly why I have to proceed with the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u271	Very soon. Dear colleague of the Greek Solution, in the 1920s and 1930s in America, the North Americans, if they wanted to call a thief, they said "He is Greek, Greco". What are you doing today, a century later? Repeat a stereotype against the Philippines...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u272	I said it in the sense that they've become servants!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u273	For thirty years we have not used this term! Well, take it back, or you'll also create a diplomatic incident with the Philippines, Mr. Comrade! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u274	Keep the essence of what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u275	It's over. Let's go down. Mr Pinheiro has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the tax bill under discussion entitled "Forensic reform with a development dimension for Greece of tomorrow" is a social contract in the light of the law, a social contract for the development of the Greek economy, but also an improvement in the level of life of the country's low-paid, middle-class, and all kinds of professionals. It brings a strong reformist and more importantly a development mark, serving the 'growth for all' strand. It lays the foundations for tax justice, social solidarity, support for productive Greece and create new jobs. The Government's innovation in this bill is that it is based on rationalisation and seeks the construction of a legal tax system, taking away the tax nature that the government has rendered to it, a policy that undermined every development effort, leading to a deadlock for citizens and businesses. This era throws back curtains and achieves the resumption of the growth and the Greek economy for Greece of tomorrow. In the tax bill we are debating today, instead of increasing, as was the case in previous years, income taxes on households and businesses. At the same time, we support growth in key sectors of the economy, such as building, tourism and processing, strengthening the incomes of employees, pensioners, farmers and professionals. In particular, the taxation of enterprises is drastically reduced, while natural persons are relieved of unfavourable tax obligations. Overall priority is given to low-wage and low-wage pensioners with an annual income of up to EUR 10,000 and a vast majority of taxpayers. The overall tax relief for natural persons and businesses exceeds over EUR 1 billion. These initiatives stimulate employment and stimulate medium-sized enterprises, primarily to reduce the income tax rate of companies from 28%, currently at 24% for 2019. The first rate of taxation for incomes of up to EUR 10 000 is reduced from 22% to 9% for natural persons, professionals, farmers, employees and pensioners, which gives breath to the primary sector on which the economy of my country, which is Evros, is based. At the same time, there is also a series of positive initiatives to rebuild the building, such as the suspension of VAT and value-added tax for a three-year period in the real estate market. A low tax rate of 10% is introduced for agricultural cooperative schemes aimed at reshaping the primary sector with incentives to establish new agricultural cooperatives. For the first time on the economic policy agenda, it includes the koruna of problems in the neuro-algal region of Evros, which is the demographics. In particular, there is provision for a EUR 2 000 allowance for every child born as of 1 January 2020, with extremely extensive income criteria covering at least 90% of the families. Mr President, with relief and joy we have heard the extension until 31/12-20 of the reduced 30% VAT rates for the islands of Leros, Lesvos, Kos, Samos and Chios, which were announced in the context of the information, on the government's operational plan to deal with the refugee immigration issue. Unfortunately, the previous government blatantly punished Samothraki and disregarded it and exempted it from the low rates of VAT.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u277	In the heating allowance, however, we did something.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u278	You did, after suggesting ours and insisting on me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u279	SYRIZA did something too!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u280	EUR 150 million was received and delivered to EUR 60 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u281	Ladies and gentlemen, please. Go on, Mr. Prisoner.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u282	At the same time, we must not forget that Samothraki has received critical damage to its infrastructure from the extreme weather phenomena in September 2017. The blows, not even today, are evident. At the same time, this summer with the misfortune that existed on the ferry connection, the island's tourist movement was affected with unpleasant economic consequences for an island with a small tourist season. Also, almost daily on the island of Niki, Mr Alexiadis, accepts the violation of its sea borders by economic immigrants with a golden refugee. The position of our island, the blows that it has received and the national importance of it, Mr Ministers, for Samothrace to be examined so that it can be reincorporated into this privileged position which, as we said, has the five islands that I said before. As far as the equivalent of transport is concerned, the government which comes either from a poor assessment or from incompetence has sedated into the scope of its application on the islands. In this legislative framework, a ceiling was imposed on the transport equivalent, which leads, Mr Tsakalotes, to a problematic implementation of the measure on certain islands, including Samothraki. The limit of EUR 200,000 per company and every three years, as defined by the rule for islands such as Samothraki, which has only one agency, is a serious disadvantage. It is certain that the careful examination of the Ministry of Finance will give a solution to the problem that really falls behind, Mr. Secretary of State for Finance, the residents and the professionals. This wall in no case serves the need to balance transport costs for these local communities with specific characteristics. We need to provide for a change in the careless design of the previous government, so that the justice measure can be exploited by the islanders, as well as extended for the categories that are required. Evros benefits most from the draft legislation under discussion with the proposed tax exemptions, the strengthening of economic activity, the treatment of demographic marism. However, there are many drug-treated fields that we have inherited and which we must intervene in the name of social justice and national development. The measures we take will work with multiplier benefits for the Greek economy and society, creating a new economic environment with opportunities and opportunities for all citizens and businesses. We promised, we owe it, we implement it. It is a law - the only one - that meets all the needs of all the citizens of this country, of all professionals, from the pervasive to the largest industrialist in the country that gives bread and jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u283	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. After apologies to my colleague Mrs Happily for the announcement before us, I will give the floor to the President of the Communist Party, Mr Koutsouba, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u284	Ladies and gentlemen, we consider it a self-evident obligation for the government to inform the parties of the issues raised in the meeting with President Erdogan and of other developments that may have taken place. We believe that this information cannot be confined to the Foreign Policy Council alone, in which the JRC does not participate. Of course, we do not expect the information to form or the image of the whole situation, but the JRC is the only party that has for some time warned that this climate of optimism, the reassurance to a large extent, which was cultivated by the previous SYRIZA government and by the current New Democracy's state of progress for the Greeks, was also disorientative and dangerous. This reassurance was based on the following at least naive - not to say anything worse, that is to say, Greece, being a good boy in NATO, a good child in the United States, protects its sovereign rights, peace and security in the region. This policy is now falling apart, taking into account the attitude of your allies. It is not good to cultivate expectations to the Greek people on the occasion of such meetings, not only with Erdogan, but also with others, such as Trump in a few days' time. Only more difficult conditions for solving problems will, unfortunately, arise every time. As far as this is concerned, no communication effort can cover the reality for a long time, especially in economic matters. You say that after ten years of bills bringing tax increases, you bring a reduction, a small one - you confessed it too - but a reduction. You're saying it comes up all the time, as long as growth goes ahead, to get further reductions and other reductions. We wonder, why do you think there is a chance that we will believe - and the Greek people believe - this story? Who has given you the image that the workers are so naive and cannot understand reality at all? Do you think they won't be able to realize that the bill you bring is even worsening the proportion of who pays? Of course, as always, at the expense of the people, for the benefit of big capital. They will not understand - do you believe - that these workers will continue to be the only ones who draw a row, that they are paying entirely the bloody surpluses, that your tax bill brings huge reductions, but only to the already virtually nonexistent taxes paid by the large companies, that the minimum reduction you make is a minimum part of the huge increases in taxes throughout the previous period, how do you give from one pocket a rug in the form of a few bleak reductions in government tax and at the same time increase the insurance contributions, the cost of the current, by blowing the budget of the people's families into the air? So let us see some truths and what exactly you do with this notorious bill. Are the workers going to see an increase in their income available next year? If one takes into account the new increase in electricity, which you voted on just a few days ago, the increases in insurance contributions due to the new attack on insurance that you are orchestrating, the increases will eventually be reduced again. If one also calculates the insurance contributions to be paid to the privatised insurance system you dream of, if it sums up the increased health costs that you privatize quickly and so much, this small increase in the available income is suddenly reduced. I could talk about these for a long time, mentioning the implications of the policy that you, together with SYRIZA before, have carried out all these years and which, as long as the weather is over, will bring more serious consequences for workers. Take out one pocket and give to the other It's not, of course, your originality. Both you and the previous government, who now denounces you as a Qualified Opposition, follow the same creative accounting, the same way to paint black - white. Then you deserve to see what workers earn in relation to tax launches in previous years. If we calculate how much the tax burden for workers has been increased over the past decade and how much it has been reduced, we will see detached launch packages for indirect taxes, lower duty and electronic transactions that have drastically increased tax obligations. Let each think about how much he would pay for tax 2009 and how much he pays in 2019. Let us think about when the ENPIA that was not in 2009 will be abolished if VAT returns to the pre-crisis level, which is currently a few billion euros more. If the average tax burden of a family goes back to pre-crisis levels. And the answers, of course, are 'no'. The most infamous relief measures for the large majority simply reduce a little the drastic burden that has taken place over the last period. And you follow the renowned Hoja tactic. You try to show the situation as an improvement. Of course you know the story. Simply say, "Don't shout, there's worse. Now the situation is a little better than the one that was before, no matter whether we ourselves again as rulers before we had created it." That's why SYRIZA is right now. Now, you see, you guys took the bite out of his mouth just like SYRIZA had taken your own bite out of your mouth. In fact, we must admit that SYRIZA was a master in this tactic. The tactic of showing a very small reduction in the burden as a profit. His tactics to be projected as the smallest evil. He waited and sought, of course, to show these, even the slightest reductions as a huge achievement of his own in favour of workers. Gentlemen of the New Democracy and SYRIZA, not all workers are lobstermen to be constantly forgotten. They remember. They remember that even before the crisis the large majority squeeze under the boots of your policy. But they know that the situation has even worsened since then and that the aspirin measures you are now bringing are not even moving in a direction of substantial relief. Besides, we don't have to tell you where you've brought the workers. You say it in your bill. You have reached the point where you need to regulate a situation where 60% of the real income relates to taxes and the permanent expenditure of workers. Of course your bill is not just communal. One is wrinkling the sacrifices the Greek people have made and made over the past period. The great economic interests of the class that you serve will see new huge benefits from this tax bill. The workers, the popular mattresses get a scooter, but for the groups you have a lollipop meal. Reducing business taxation in 1/6, that is a EUR 500 million bonus for large capital. And as if that isn't enough, you're half-folding dividend tax from 10% to 5%. Go ahead in a move that aims to facilitate the Group's major shareholders to make their profits in a direct financial form. The bill further expands your arsenal of permanent tax evasion for large capital with piles of challenging arrangements. While you are talking about a small reduction in HPAI, you are essentially easing the tax burden on real estate businesses. You're even making a little gift for offshore. Your bill provides for a full exemption from any tax, fee, contribution or booking for shareholders of holding companies in the event that they hold shares in shipowners with the NAT. Exemption is also provided for by the special property tax relating to offshore companies for shipping companies that have established offices in Greece. We're talking about another little gift of yours to the shipowners. And it's a lot of hypocrisy. Of course, not only yours, but also SYRIZA, who did not dare in the debate on the Constitutional Review to support the proposal that JVs to abolish the shipowners' tax exemptions provided for in the Constitution. While loading to workers the bloody primary surpluses and depleting them with a great tax, you turn the country into a tax haven for big businessmen, for capitalists, who will pay a minimum tax for all their profits around the world. But perhaps the most provocative arrangement you bring is the complete exemption from taxation for real wealth. You prove that you know very well that real wealth is not in dividends or even in taxable profits, since with depreciation and reinvestment taxable profits are almost zero. The real wealth, the accumulated sweat of workers is in the capital accumulated by large businesses. And this wealth by means of a simple act of yours you completely exclude it from taxation, with the exception of capital gains due to the transfer of holdings. Your provocative tax policy has no limits. You are abolishing even the 15% minimum tax that has been applied up to a precedent. So while the sweat of the workers tax him directly and indirectly - with HISPIA, inheritance tax, the various other raisins - the real wealth you leave him with the bosom of the law to the unpredictable. It's obvious what you want to do. You form a framework where big capital will be able to invest and make its profits directly in cash to take them elsewhere. That is the nature of your development. That is why the previous situation is no longer sufficient, where tax-free profits accumulated as capital of the company. It is necessary to be able to quickly transform it into money, because the economy is changing. That is why we are interested in unfamiliar transparency, the expansion of electronic transactions. It is not just a suffocating monitoring of workers' lives through their transactions. You want to leave no worker, no poor self-employed, no farmer in green tears. The transparency of e-commerce does not disturb big capital, quite simply because it is legally avoiding boulder and laws. That is why your tax collectors are seeking to tax every piece of money that does not pay taxes on a few dozen euros, while at the same time a group that makes billions of euros will capitalise on them and transfer them to the offspring at a minimum tax burden. You are not originalizing again, gentlemen of the government. People's taxation and legal tax evasion for capital are all over the world. That's why that was exactly the line of your predecessor in the government. Let us remember who developed direct and indirect taxes for the people, who reduced from 15% to 10% the dividend tax, who established the favourable framework for the taxation of goodwill from the sale of shares on the stock exchange. No one is surprised today, of course. You follow the same policy faithfully with the SYRIZA government and this is not randomly. That needs big capital, that's what you both do. State measures to ensure its profitability with tax exemptions, aids, to create a favourable framework above all cheap labour force. This is the policy pursued both by you and your partner in the duplex of the urban political system. And it's just a policy that doesn't get any individual corrections. He just wants a total scan. Of course you're telling a truth. You cannot oblige investors, the capitalist market, the capitalist relationship to operate against itself. You know the working man, the wager, can't be above profits. When you try to set up the market, she finds a counter-regulatory because her need is to make and hunt more profits. And when profits require flexible working relationships, there will be flexible working relationships. The second point on your argument, however, is wrong, because if the market fails to withstand overregulation, it cannot withstand human employment relationships for workers, then the problem is not in employment relations. It does not appear as a self-evident legislative solution to align working relationships with market requirements, that is to say to establish a complete degradation of labour legislation, by continuing the attack, of course, initiated by SYRIZA. Surely capitalist growth requires more redemption of the workers and anyone who supports something different, as SYRIZA does several times from this one, is simply laughing. Your tax system is not corrected by individual proposals. It is a mechanism for redistributing large capital, which is not content with its huge profits, due to the exploitation of the working class, but is making use of state taxation as an additional mechanism for rapid accumulation at the expense of workers. Unfortunately, the system's tax framework cannot really be corrected in a philosophical direction. It is another component of the whole machine you have shaped, to dominate society and its productive power, human work. What's he illustrating? The need for increasingly deferring capital labour as an essential condition for ensuring its profitability. That is why it does not fit or withstand very substantial improvements. It will be with you and the order you represent sooner or later in history. In this struggle, the Communist Party of Greece calls on all workers in the struggle to finally overthrow this rotten, this dead-end system you represent. The context of demands put forward and enters forward and claims, among other things, is a substantial taxation of the great wealth, a transfer of tax burdens to the large capital, a 45% tax on all profits, a dividend tax on income on the scale, a tax on profits from the goodwill of participations, also on the scale, abolition of all autonomous taxes, abolition of tax exemptions specifically to shipowners, introduction of tax to meet the needs of the people's family and abolition of unfair indirect taxes, etc. All of this is a first step towards the immediate relief of the people's family, of the people's households, a power station for a more decisive race. It shows that there is a possibility of paying the big capital and thus reducing the workers. It finally illuminates the fact that the rotting of this system is not a one-way road, in which we want to live in here. It is not the future that suits us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u285	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Minister for Finance has the floor for the next eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u286	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today I will talk to you about four things: for the excellent results of the Eurogroup meeting yesterday, for the tax bill as a result of the good course of the Greek economy, for the positive impact of the bill on the available income of the lowest income groups and the middle class, and for the exceptional aid to sensitive social groups as a result of the additional financial space created by the current government over the last few weeks. Four distinct topics, however, which relate to each other. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's Eurogroup was recognised by all the participants, institutions and Member States of the Eurozone the good course of the Greek economy. The progress made after 7 July has been confirmed and re-examined by all the major gaps left by the previous government, the positive dynamics of the economy developed over recent months have emerged, the credibility, the morality and, above all, the seriousness of the current government and the disbursement of the second Greek debt relief package, amounting to EUR 767 million, has been decided. These measures include the release of the next instalment, profits of the European central banks by Greek bonds, great ANFAs and SMPs. Unblocking - and I stress it - without conditions, without prerequisites, as had been set out in previous disbursements of the previous government. In addition, for the first time, the communication highlighted and recorded the question of exploiting these profits for investment purposes. To this end, it has been decided to initiate the technical treatment in the near future. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek economy is moving on. It proceeds with steady, hierarchical steps towards its full normalisation, good growth rates, support for economically weak and middle-class and the country's entire strengthening. The government's financial staff appreciates, works and hopes that the orbit of the Greek economy will be better and better. This optimism, combined with realism, shares it with the partners, with investors, with the markets, with the rating houses, but primarily with the Greek citizens. First and foremost with Greek citizens. As Minister of Finance, I am pleased, without of course triumphant and I call with a sense of national and social responsibility all Greek women and all Greeks to cooperate actively on this path. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's Eurogroup decision is based on the positive assessment of the Commission's fourth enhanced monitoring report, the most positive of the published reports so far. A report that provides for budgetary objectives - but take note of what he has said for the first time - by improving the quality of public finances as a result, he says, of the targeted reduction in tax rates by the current Government of New Democracy. So, I come to the second theme of my position in the tax bill under discussion, as it is entitled to "Forum reform with a development dimension for Greece of tomorrow". And this is what all of us are converging: institutions, partners, bodies during their hearing and, of course, the Greek society, all outside parties of anti-politicism, who are politicizing out of reality and out of logic. Ladies and gentlemen, the tax bill under discussion has a clear development dimension. It aims to strengthen economic efficiency and stimulate social justice and are fully consistent with government commitments. In particular, it moves on ten axes, which have corresponding objectives and constitute an integrated and coherent legislative instrument. First axis: Reduction of personal income tax for all citizens, but mainly for the lowest income levels. It is being established, just as we had committed before the elections and in the programming declarations, an import tax rate of 9% for natural persons, free traders, farmers, employees and pensioners. From 22% today, it becomes 9%, as we committed ourselves. This reduction will favour not only those who have incomes of up to 10,000, but the whole - I stress - of taxpayers, since their income is being taxed incrementally. Moreover, they are reduced by one percentage point and rates for higher incomes. Secondly, the reduction in the tax on incomes of legal persons to strengthen healthy entrepreneurship and create new jobs. It reduces the corporate income tax rate from 28% to 24% for 2019 incomes - in the run-up to 2020, 2019, we did - for all businesses, small, medium and large. The rate of taxation of dividends from 10% to 5% is reduced. A low rate of tax, 10%, is introduced for agricultural cooperative schemes. The 0.6% levy on factoring and leasing credits is abolished. The creation of holdings is encouraged by tax incentives. The method of taxation for investment firms, such as companies that invest in real estate, real estate funds, portfolio investment companies and UCITS, is streamlined. Thirdly, because I have heard this, the support of the workers. It streamlines the taxation of options for acquisition of shares, of stock options. The worker is now becoming a shareholder in the investment prospects of the firm in which he works at a very low cost. It seeks to act as an incentive for the country's scientific and generally human potential, which the years of crisis have left abroad, to return. In particular, for workers in newly-born enterprises, there is provision for an even lower rate of taxation, whereas benefits in kind to workers in the form of a company car or in the form of a loan are streamlined. Fourth axle: natural persons, legal persons, workers. The family, the strengthening of social cohesion and protection. EUR 1 000 duty is increased for each protected child regardless of the number of them. LEIs with a disability rate of 80% or more are exempted from the solidarity levy, irrespective of the form of disability. VAT on infants is reduced from 24% to 13%. The VAT on helmets and children's seats is reduced from 24% to 13%. The maximum number of instalments of the fixed debt arrangement from twelve to twenty-four and in specific exceptional cases of debts from twenty-four to forty-eight shall be increased, depending on the ability to repay the debtor. Fifth axis: the attraction of foreign direct investment. It is clarified that tax residence legislation is to be established and an alternative method of taxation of foreign income is to be introduced by paying annual flat-rate tax. Non-axle: The relaunch of sectors of the economy with a significant contribution to the GDP of the country. The levying of VAT on buildings with a licence from 1 to 1 to 2006 is being suspended, with and without the contribution. The imposition of the capital duty on the transfer of real estate is suspended for three years. Incentives are introduced for costs to be incurred for the reception of services relating to the energy, aesthetic and functional upgrading of buildings. Reductions in renting public fishermen in fisheries cooperatives, from 10% to 5% of the value of the catch. The market for chartered ships is regulated and the excise duty established on wine is repaid or remitted. Seventh Axis: Strengthening sustainable development. What have I told you so far? Natural persons, legal persons, family, workers, foreign investment, sustainable development. How? A package of measures to promote the use of public transport as well as vehicles of zero or low pollutants is being introduced. Eighth Axis: Strengthening corporate social responsibility. Gross enterprise revenues shall be deducted from the expenditure related to corporate social responsibility action, such as unrestricted public transport passes, without being an income for the worker. So the worker is benefiting. Benefits from institutions to the public are supported. Ninth Axis: Strengthening transparency and limiting tax evasion. Employees, pensioners, freelance professionals and incomeers will have to make expenditures equal to 30% of their actual income by electronic means of payment. It should be noted that the calculation of the actual income does not include the amount of the solidarity levy and does not include the amount of the diet of a divorced spouse or child. Where expenditure relating to payments of personal income and HPAI has been incurred, credit liabilities to financial institutions and rents that exceed 60% of the actual income, the required amount of expenditure shall be limited to 20% of their actual income. Exemptions are provided for taxpayers who have objective difficulties in using electronic means of payment, while expenditure limits are reduced to 20,000. Specific categories of taxpayers are excluded from these arrangements for social reasons, such as taxpayers who have completed the seventh year of their age, people with a disability of 80% or more, taxpayers who permanently reside in villages with up to five hundred inhabitants and islands with a population of less than three thousand per cent, except in tourist areas, beneficiaries of social solidarity income, persons who are in long-term hospitality and other categories. Finally, the tenth axis is to reduce the bureaucratic burden on tax administration and business. There shall be a one-off write-off of debts of natural and legal persons with a total value of up to EUR 10 per taxpayer. In this way, on the one hand, tax administration is being discharged of the bureaucratic cost of monitoring these debts, and, on the other, more than five hundred thousand taxpayers will again be able to issue tax information, with all the positive effect on their economic activity. At the same time, electronic books, electronic invoicing, the full electronicisation of tax declarations. In conclusion, the tax bill under discussion seeks and achieves to strengthen the reopening of the Greek economy, reduce the tax burden on households and businesses, broaden the tax base, not by reducing the tax exemption made by the previous government, but by hitting tax evasion as an element of social justice and helping the economic activity of the productive part of the Greek economy and society, to which the middle class belongs. It is thus demonstrated once again that the Government of New Democracy does not apply policies with a class mark, but policies for all citizens, with particular attention, special emphasis, in the lower income layers and in the middle income layers. So, ladies and gentlemen, I come to the third point of my position. This is the issue of the middle-class, which in recent days has been consumed a very public reason, an issue which has been unnecessarily and non-benefitfully raised as usual in our country. But let's talk to me, you're true. First truth. The scientific definition of the middle class does not exist worldwide. Second truth. The extremities of the middle class with income and assets criteria over time and per country are changing. Third truth. For Greece until now and at no time has the relative limits set. Whoever's doing this, putting limits on it, it's just dissatisfied. Ladies and gentlemen, only the OECD has presented the middle-class limits to the income criterion. That's all I mentioned in my place. I never said that these limits would be accepted by the Ministry of Finance or by the Minister of Finance. The retrospective use of OECD data in some respects does not serve the truth. Therefore, it is only confusing. I believe that the reports by domestic and international organisations should be studied with interest, whether they contain pleasant or unpleasant elements. After all, in the last few days some who criticise this OECD study are simultaneously invoking the same organisation for its studies, such as the school performance of pupils or the tax burden of households today. These are studies - all of these - from primary data provided by the public services in our country and by our country's institutions. It is not possible to read the same body's study card. Personally, I don't break the meters when they show evidence I don't like. And these figures show, even if we disagree with the limits, that the middle-class has collapsed in Greece under the responsibility of all governments, but especially the latter, since the country is in the fourth lowest position among all OECD members. The aim, therefore, of all of us, in all the wings, must be to increase whatever income limits, to rectify the middle class and bring it back where it really needs to be. Finally, fourth truth, starting with a question. Will economic policy planning be based on declared incomes and declared wealth or will we continue to act on personal estimates? Will economic planning be based on reality or desires, based on quantitative elements or arbitrary, on those who pay taxes or on those that have higher incomes and wealth but do not state them? I believe that we need to develop a responsible debate, which leads to broadly accepted limits in terms of income and wealth of the social classes in Greece. I too am going to continue, within and outside the House, to put myself on evidence, because only then can we, if not agree, at least fundamentally agree on it. That is why I am in favour of, I appreciate, elements in this regard. Hold them. According to the latest published annual statistical bulletin of the ADI, the Independent Public Revenue Authority, based on 2018 tax declarations for incomes 2017, 52% of tax returns had a declared family income below 8000 euros, 83% below 20,000. From 1,500 to 1,700 euros a month, it states 3.4% of the country's population. In households with two children a little more than half the tax returns submitted had a family income declared under 15,000 euros. The zero declarations from 2014-2017 increased by 14%, while the taxpayers with incomes of between 20,000 and 70,000 euros dropped by up to 12%. The total declared income has shrinked - contain it - for taxpayers with an income of between EUR 20,000 and EUR 1,8 billion, while at the same time increasing in the low tiers from EUR 1 000 to 20,000 by EUR 1.3 billion. Conclusion? Inside the crisis, all years, but mainly in the period 2014-2017 there was a dramatic contraction of declared incomes, especially in the middle layers. The SYRIZA government has put on average an additional tax from EUR 200 to EUR 830 per family with income from EUR 20,000 to EUR 70,000, while at the same time the average tax burden on income from EUR 10 000 to EUR 20,000 increased by 18%. Over the period 2014-2017, the net annual household income of up to 20,000 decreased by EUR 235, while for larger incomes the corresponding reduction was EUR 530. The VAT gap, according to figures not that of the government, but of the European Commission - increased from 27% in 2014 to 34% in 2017. In other words, VAT evasion increased by 26% on SYRIZA. Conclusion: SYRIZA overcompensated low and medium-income layers, which led to an increase in tax evasion by about 3 billion euros over the last four years. With these quantitative figures, the financial staff and the government generally regulate in the first place in favour of low incomes, in favour of low incomes from the middle and, more generally, medium-sized sectors. Proof? According to a study by the Economic Experts from the reduction of HPAI and the new scale of income tax for natural persons - combined HPAI and individuals tax - a reduction in the tax burden is expected in the lower incomes by 23%, average incomes by 16% and higher incomes by 7%. All citizens will see relief, not a class sign, but a particular focus on lower and medium-incomes. In this direction we commit that, as soon as a financial area is safely created, we will also reduce the solidarity levy, as a priority, until we abolish it, so that we can gradually see the middle-class return where it really needs to be and not where it is today. This is demonstrated by the Government and by the distribution of the surplus that was created in the second half of 2019. I repeat, the overcrowd created in the second half of 2019. So, ladies and gentlemen, I come to the last section of my position, which shows that the current government is making use of any available space for the benefit of the entire Greek society. But let's say some truths, because I've heard the Qualified Opposition say some strange things over the past few days. First, on 7 July the Government of New Democracy did not receive any financial resources. She admitted it herself. On May 15, 2019 in this Chamber, the Minister of Finance said that with the measures taken by the then government in May, the entire financial area was exhausted. He said, "We have a specific financial area. This financial area for 2019 is 1,1 billion euros", what it has taken previously, "if you think it's bigger, tell us where you're going to cut." This was May 2019. So according to the then government, there was no financial space. But I wish it were so easy. Not only was there no financial space, but there was also a budget gap of EUR 396 million. These are official information from the General Accounting Office of the State on 10-7-2019. We have the same thing, and so is Mr. Juliarakis. On 10-7-2019 there was a gap of EUR 396 million. We've got it covered. And not only did we cover it, but we created without additional austerity measures, for which SYRIZA was in danger before the elections, additional financial space.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u287	How?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u288	And how did we cover it? First of all, with absolute budgetary discipline on the expenditure side. Secondly, the new regulation for the hundred and twenty instalments. It was much better for both 2019 and 2020. The services found themselves blank and were able with the framework of arrangements to create additional revenues and to fill a gap in 2020, Mr Loverdos, and with the best course of the Greek economy in the second half of the year, as evidenced by the economic climate indicator, which, incidentally, went beyond the European average in June. We did these without austerity measures, for which the previous government was in danger. But how much is this place? It is over a billion euros together with the security pillow that we have achieved in the second half of the year. And this, despite the fact - not to forget - that the previous government for election reasons - is shown in the documents at the time - has already shared the social dividend as an allegedly thirteenth pension, covering what it would do at the end of the year and accusing us now that we are not doing so after sharing it. The crucial question, however, is how the two governments make use of the available space. We, therefore, made use of this EUR 1 billion, in a completely different way. We've reduced HISBIA. Cost? 205,000 euros. Target? The middle and lower income layers. We pay forward an increased heating allowance. Cost? 68,000 euros. Target? The lowest income layers. We've reduced the tax advance for legal persons. Cost? 138,000 euros. Target? All businesses, small, medium-sized, large. We have covered extraordinary expenses in national defence, hospitals and public transport. Cost? 61,000 euros. Target? The security and everyday life of the citizens. We've covered PPC's debts, the YMOs. Cost? 200,000,000 euros. Target? Rescue the organization for the benefit of the entire Greek society. We are granting exceptional support to sensitive social groups. Cost? 175,000 euros. Target? Strengthening social cohesion. So the 1,000,000 euros, how did this government give it? In the lower and middle layers with HOPIA, in the lower layers with the heating allowance, in the businesses by reducing the advance payment, in the security of the citizen, in the daily lives of the citizen, in the functioning of public services, with stock in order to be sure of achieving the objective and by supporting sensitive social groups.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u289	Minister, please finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u290	I shall conclude, Madam President. The exceptional aid of EUR 700 per household shall be granted to two hundred and fifty thousand households with nine hundred and fifty-three members belonging to the following social groups. First group, families with four children and over, with taxable family income, based on the statements made by the citizens of 2019, up to 20,000 euros. Number of eligible households: nineteen thousand hundred forty. Second group, families who at least one parent is long-term unemployed, that is more than 12 months old, with at least one dependent child and with taxable family income of up to 15,000 euros. Only parental families are taken into account. Number of eligible households: one hundred sixty-three thousand seven hundred seventy-eight. Third group, families who both parents are short-term unemployed, i.e. under twelve months, with at least one dependent child and taxable family income up to 15,000 euros. Only parental families are taken into account. Number of eligible households: forty thousand nine hundred twenty-seven. Fourth group, families with dependent new children, beneficiaries of the allowance in question up to twenty-four years. Number of eligible households: twenty-five thousand six hundred thirty two. We have even managed in the last few days, even in the last week, since the weekend, to create a little more space to benefit our other fifty thousand compatriots. Additional criteria for the award of the social dividend? At least one of the two parents of the household should stay legally and permanently on Greek territory for the last 10 years, as shown by the submission of an income tax in the last decade. Both parents of the household should be tax residents of Greece and the sum of the deposits of all members of the household in all the credit institutions of the country or abroad, as well as the current value of shares and bonds not exceeding EUR 20,000. Conclusion: Extraordinary financial aid, but also the total distribution of the surplus, does not replace the social policy of the current government, but also demonstrates that the New Democracy cares for the many and works for the many. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that the government has shaped the conditions necessary to restore losses as soon as possible, increase the available income and ensure social cohesion. It is a fact that this tax bill does not fully restore the losses suffered by taxpayers during the crisis, but it takes a first important step towards reducing excessive tax burden on households and businesses. It creates a tax policy fair for citizens and businesses, but at the same time extrovert, which is friendly for attracting foreign direct investment, geared to sustainable development and upgrading our quality of life, in a new economic environment, a new environment with opportunities and opportunities for all households, for all the businesses created by the Government of New Democracy and the government majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u291	Thank you too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks organises and operates, thirty-six students and schoolchildren and three teachers from the 3rd Gymnasium of Agrinio (Second Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Euthymou has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u292	We are waiting for an amendment from the Bureau, what Mr Besiropoulos said. He hasn't come to us yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u293	We don't have it, Mr. Comrade. When we have it, we'll give it to you. Mrs Euthymou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u294	Thank you, Madam President. Less taxes, more investment, smaller surpluses, more growth, less burdens in productive Greece, more and better jobs. These objectives fully adopt the tax bill implementing the government's commitments on a step-by-step basis. The tax bill submitted by the government has a strong, reformative and, above all, a development mark. It is based on rationalisation, the study of best practices and careful analysis of pathogens and data and is the fulfilment of our commitments to reduce taxes. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis proves by this bill that fiscal policy can - and must - have - the development dimension and target, but also a social sign. Because the previous government's political ideology gave tax policy a purely tax-suppressive role to the point where it touched the bleeding of the market. Thus, the debts of the citizens and businesses in the tax system were increased. The country was unable to attract those who wanted to invest in it or to engage in economic and business activity, thereby declaring growth. The first and main direction of this bill is the reduction of taxes. This is the second wave of tax reductions by the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, consistently in our commitments. Let me remind you that in the first days of the government's term of office, we have moved on to reduce HISBIA for all citizens inclusive. The bill includes specific tax reductions, such as the introduction of an import tax rate of 9% instead of 22%, which are currently for natural persons, wagers, pensioners, farmers and free traders and for incomes of up to EUR 10,000. This reduction does not only benefit those who have an income of up to EUR 10,000. It concerns all taxpayers, since their income is taxed on a progressive scale. In addition, the reduction in income tax based on the number of children is adjusted. Reduced VAT rates are applied to support vulnerable groups and social protection. Accredited inequalities to the detriment of vulnerable social groups are restored. In particular, there is provision for an increase in the tax rate of EUR 1 000 for each protected child, irrespective of their number, from the contribution of all AIFMs with a disability rate of over 80%, irrespective of the form of disability, a reduction in VAT for infants from 24% presently at the reduced rate of 13%, an increase in the maximum number of instalments of fixed debt adjustment from twelve instalments in twenty-four instalments and in special cases of temporary debt from twenty-four instalments in forty-eight instalments. Because it is especially my sensitivity to matters of vulnerable social groups, but also to the multiples and to the third families, last week I met with the Board of Directors of the Association of Polytecnes in Thessaloniki and their President, Erotokritos Theotokatos. I am, in fact, pleased that this bill meets requests from the luxuries. I believe that when more budgetary space is found, other demands will be met. And I am glad to hear the Minister say from Stepa that there will be a reduction in the solidarity levy, which is a constant request for the trousers. as, too, I believe that it will be in that direction and the trade-exemption. In addition, however, measures to relaunch the economy are also introduced in key sectors with a contribution to the GDP of the country, which have been particularly affected by the economic crisis. In particular, the imposition of VAT on buildings with a licence from 1 January 2016 and the suspension of VAT shall also be suspended. The imposition of capital duty on the transfer of immovable property is also suspended for three years. In addition to these, however, this bill also has a social sign, which I support and sign as a combat lawyer and I certify it because of my specialty in Labour Law. As far as workers are concerned - because there is a lot to be said about workers - the issue is who they are doing for workers. In particular, it rationalises the method of taxing options for acquisitions of shares, the so-called'stock options'. The purpose of these rules is to provide an indirect incentive to keep and return workers and a means of upgrading working conditions. The worker is thus now becoming a shareholder in the investment prospects of the firm, in which he works at a low cost. It is thus seeking, together with other measures, to act as an incentive to return to our country, both the scientific and the wider human capital that the years of the crisis have left abroad. It's my generation. But we do not only live in these things for the workers. The benefits in kind are streamlined to them in the form of a company car or in the form of a loan. Also, payments to employees on the basis of the purchase of their insurance contract due to their participation in voluntary exit are no longer premature redemption and are not taxed at a rate increased by 50%. We therefore take care of the workers. It is a separate pillar of the bill. We are taking concrete initiatives, specific policies for them and in the area of social corporate responsibility. We are strengthening corporate social responsibility by extending exemptions from the calculation of wage and pension incomes to the benefit of workers again. And I stress the "rest" of the workers. Because many in opposition talk about workers. It's about what we're doing for them. We, in fact, implement within weeks of the 7th of July the New Democracy became the political government and implement the commitments that we have had from the election to the Greek people. Tax policy must be of a development nature, aimed at strengthening and attracting investment and business initiatives that are the driving force for the country's economy. For prosperity is achieved through entrepreneurial activity rather than anachronistic policies. We want and hope that through the New Democracy's development programme, which will succeed, we will attract investment in the future, and in this way we will reduce unemployment and reduce taxation even further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u295	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Stylus has the floor from New Democracy. Please, Mr. Logiadis must be prepared from Mera25. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u296	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by making three specific political points. Firstly, this bill has a positive sign for citizens, for investment, for the economy and for strengthening its competitiveness, for growth, for recovery, for the transition of the tax system to the digital age, for reducing bureaucracy in tax administration and businesses, for the country as a whole. It's not positive for SYRIZA. And that's why he doesn't let him make room for his inexpensive opposition. The numbers are specific. So, SYRIZA can't plunder, lie to the citizens once more. The bill is another link in the chain of government initiatives to get our country to the front, unlike the SYRIZA initiatives and its opposition tactics to trap the place in a miserable introvert. The majority of citizens, who are not party to the new tax reform, who want progress, work, pretext, will surely see a positive view of the new tax reform. Two. We have a different philosophy here between the New Democracy and the Civic Opposition. With this bill we have fewer taxes for businesses and citizens, more available income for saving, for consumption, increased resources available for investment and research, increased turnover, increased jobs, new wealth, etc. With the policy advocated by SYRIZA's Civic Opposition during their previous governance, however, we had more taxes, fewer incomes, less economic freedom, no wealth-free policy, more dependence on the state, the government, the party mechanisms. We had a vicious circle of taxes, of government, of poverty benefits. Thirdly, it is time, ladies and gentlemen, the juncture, the timing. The new tax bill is an intermediate post in an integrated coherent and realistic plan for the recovery of the Greek economy. We have had the reduction of the ENPIA since summer and the hundred and twenty doses. We had the new development bill on simplifying authorisations, providing incentives, unblocking large and flagship investments. We have just had the bill on the liberalisation of the energy market and on the new PPC. Now we have the new tax bill and then follow the bill for banks, the HARAKLIS project for reducing red loans and immediately after the budget for 2020. So we have a structured plan, a clear policy, which the current government is saying and clarifying for next year, for 2020. So, with clear terms and rules, known to everyone, to the citizens, to the investment community, we are moving forward for next year. And above all, we have the basic requirement for these efforts to be thriving. We have political stability and a government that has a four-year term, a government that believes in its programme, believes in the free market, in competition and in reform. Ladies and gentlemen, they have been mentioned by the previous speakers and by the previous Minister of Finance, Mr Stakoura, in very detail all aspects of the tax bill and its implications for citizens, the economy and everyday life. I would like to make a small reference to some aspects of the bill which have a strong social character. I am referring to the introduction of the import tax rate to 9%, from 22% until now, a change involving natural persons, professionals, employees, pensioners and farmers. I am referring to a aid measure that supports young people, those who are now cowardly - are cowardly for their first steps to enter the labour market and for them to be able to stand in society and our pensioners, who will see, by reducing the import tax rate, increasing their incomes. Ladies and gentlemen, I am talking about reduced rates of taxation and VAT rates to support vulnerable groups and social protection. There is an increase in the tax rate of EUR 1 000 for each child protected, regardless of the number of them. Secondly, exemption from the solidarity levy for all disabled people with more than 80%, regardless of the form of disability. Thirdly, a reduction in VAT on infants from 24% currently at the reduced rate of 13%. Reduction of VAT on motorcycle helmets and children's seats from 24% currently at the reduced rate of 13%. Increasing the maximum number of instalments of fixed debt adjustment from twelve to twenty-four and in special exceptional cases of debts from twenty-four to forty-eight. Ladies and gentlemen, I am also referring to measures to strengthen industries with a significant contribution to our country's GDP, which have been particularly affected in recent years during the economic crisis. And I am talking about building and suspending VAT for permits issued from 2006 onwards, on the purchase of real estate and repairs, where you all know that thousands of workers are employed. I am also referring to measures to strengthen corporate social responsibility and to benefit to workers. The bill is moving in the right direction. We're sure of that. We have a bill with a positive social figure that is expected to work multiplierly for the Greek economy and society, giving opportunities and opportunities for many to build a better future for our children, a better future for our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The floor now has Mr. Logiadis from Mera25 and Mr. Kavadas from New Democracy is being prepared. You've been flying for minutes, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u298	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President-in-Office, I really wish both Greek and businessmen and as Mera25 that Greece should go better. I would like to begin, first of all, with a proposal. Apart from the energy and aesthetic upgrading of buildings included in the tax bill, I would like to propose - and should be given - tax incentives for building insurance against climate change. I read from the paper 'KATHMERINA' of 4 December: 'May the insurance of buildings be compulsory, as is the case today in vehicles. The insurance industry considers that the universal property insurance would benefit multiplely from the provision of the owners, which would not be subject to the State's ability to cope with a difficult situation, until the damages are recovered more quickly.’ Remember the flood in Mandra and the fire in Matty. The state should establish a framework that meets the need for universal security. In a country with such a high percentage of ownership as Greece, it is in everyone's interest to become a reality. I'd like to see that in the bill, too. I would also like to mention an injustice for the approximately a thousand seven hundred teachers who, because of the lack of payment of the EUR 3 electronic fraud, lose their jobs. Because these people each year, with a suitcase in their hand, leave their families to offer their services to children who need their services throughout Greece. They are now condemned to three years of unemployment, even as substitutes, because the electronic misconduct of these 3 euros has not been paid by error or vague instructions. We ask the government to take immediate legislative measures and initiatives. This is from the Dismissal Group SAPA 2019, due to non-payment of the paradox. I would also like to stress that I see no place in the tax draft special tax incentives for the resettlement and support of island and mountain regions. It is a huge issue that the European Union has not yet fully solved. We, the front of the European Realist Disobedience 25, tabled a proposal to reduce VAT on the islands at the earliest Memorandum levels. Greece is not only Athens and Thessaloniki. They are both the many small and remote islands and our very many mountainous areas and we must support them. It is a nationally important policy. You understand what I mean. Now for the tax bill, I think it is awkward and does not question to the very least the overriding primary surpluses imposed by our creditors in the country and are the core of the lack of liquidity and stagnation in the numbers of lasting crisis, now recommending permanent austerity and regularity. You are advertising the reduction in the tax rate of companies from 28% to 24%. However, when tax evasion is over 30%, as Mr Skokakis said earlier, very large companies, I believe, are being helped by this reduction, as I believe, by banks, industries, the supermarket chains. Only when the very small ones relive and increase their demand, these too many will improve general psychology. Because economy means psychology. Let us not forget that in Greece 97.2% of enterprises have fewer than nine employees. The increase in the rate of compulsory trade to 30% for all taxpayers is a provision for us completely unconstitutional. How do you oblige every citizen to do that? But if this is done, it should be accompanied by a complete removal of bank charges for electronic transactions and the introduction of an irresponsible business account, Minister. Therefore, care that is not mentioned anywhere in the bill for individual businesses and free traders who are too many who have frozen accounts and cannot make electronic transactions should be taken. The reduction in the corporate tax rate to 5% of 10% only facilitates the redistribution of income in favour of larger business units. It is also clear from the bill that foreign investment benefits are provided. This creates conditions of competition inequality and inactivation of Greek production potential, production units. We sell out foreigners when Berlin or London put walls of protection against invasion of foreign investors, such as Chinese investors, to fortify domestic businesses and ultimately their economy and society. Reducing the tax advance from 100% to 95% we believe it is ash in our eyes. We at Mera25 suggest 0% for the tax advance. In fact, at a time when there are surpluses, it would be fair and proper to completely abolish this catastrophic measure for every firm and every undertaking. I'm a small entrepreneur in this very pathetic country. You say we're out of memorials, so you can do it. This tax advance payment to 100% or 95% is a terrible invention, not a development but a devastation of the economy. So what development are we talking about when too many accounts are blocked, are they inactive, are they dead? These people either don't work or work in the black economy, in the black economy. What development are we talking about when confiscations are now being made, even in holiday days? And this is wrong tweeting, the wrong time to give an opposite signal to what you are evangelizing, which we all want, the recovery of our economy and society. I will close with a quote again from "KATHMERINA": "What development are we talking about when the appointment of veteran states to public office works differently for the credibility of the government and does not fit in what the Prime Minister is doing, in the claim that the others also appointed vulcanizer owners to hospitals? It's just reproducing cynicism. It inspires the belief that the country's normality is Russephetian rule." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u299	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Kavadas has the floor from New Democracy, and immediately thereafter Mr Hadjivassiliou, also from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u300	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the tax bill we are discussing today confirms that the country has returned a definitive page. The country is entering a new period of tax relief for all citizens. Incentives and conditions are created to attract investment and boost economic activity. Tax reliefs and interventions are introduced which the vast majority of Greek society appreciates positively. And this climate is even more important than the climate of confidence in international markets towards our country. Overtaxation has done a great deal of damage to the economy, particularly to small and medium-sized enterprises, the backbone of the Greek economy. This bill is in the opposite direction to the previous government. It is characterized by a reformist philosophy, carrying out a dual goal: recovery and development. It was only yesterday that Greece borrowed at a negative interest rate with the issue of interest rates of six months, drawing EUR 812,500,000. The most important thing, however, is that the improvement in the economic climate is reflected in the real economy, in households, in ordinary citizens. They all see a consistent tax reduction policy. The government's commitments shall be carried out. The tax bill is also socially targeted by laying the foundations for a fair tax system. For the first time in the autumn last year, Greek citizens took cleansing with reduced HISPIA. For the first time in 2020 citizens and businesses will see substantial tax reductions. In particular, thirteen whole percentage points are reduced the import rate from 23% to 9% for low incomes to 10,000 euros. In order for everyone to understand the extent of tax relief, which results in these income categories, I will set an example. A free professional with an annual income of 10,000 euros has to date paid a tax of 2.200 euros, and will now pay 900 euros, 1.300 euros less. It is a major reduction, ladies and gentlemen, for a low income. It also reduces the tax rate for enterprises from 28%, which is currently 24%, which will give small businesses in particular. The tax on dividends is reduced by 10% today, at 5%. A low tax rate of 10% is introduced for new and modern agricultural cooperative vehicles. The bill, as I said, has a social target. It supports those who really need it. It restores injustice. SYRIZA's colleagues, both pre-electionally and post-electionally, claimed with certainty that the New Democracy Government would reduce duty-free. They fell out, as they have fallen out in all their estimates and predictions that move to the limits of danger. Because the New Democracy Government not only did it not reduce duty-free, but it increased it by 1,000 euros for every child. He exempted all persons with a disability rate greater than 80% from the solidarity levy. He reduced VAT on infants from 24% today to 13%. Another positive measure is that of winemakers and merchants throughout the country. It is foreseen to refund or delete the excise duty established for wines, which up to 31-12-2018 had not been consumed. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have said before, the tax bill submitted by the government has developmental characteristics. It creates a tax regime that is friendly to investors. It strengthens dynamic sectors targeted by overtaxation, such as the real estate market. Thus, the way in which foreign income is taxed is changed by paying annual flat-rate tax in the case of investments of more than EUR 500,000. And that is not just to attract investment, but to bring foreign capital. Substantial support measures are also being taken for the purchase of real estate and the construction by suspending VAT and capital gains in real estate markets for three years. A 40% tax deduction is introduced for expenditure on the energy, operational and aesthetic upgrading of buildings. The provision that improves the framework for the fixed settlement of debt and increases the number of instalments on conditional terms and according to the financial capacity of the debtor is absolutely positive. Finally, I would like to welcome the resolution of a matter that I had raised together with another thirty two colleagues from New Democracy - together with the current Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Vesyropoulos - in July 2017 and also in October 2018. I am referring to the change in the taxation framework for corporate cars, for which workers who used them as a work tool were forced to pay for an extra tax carpet that was up to a wage per year. It is now predicted that retail cars up to EUR 17 000 are not taxed as income. And I would like to thank you, Mr Ministers - and Mr Stavoura and Mr Vésiropoulos - not only because you have listened to my suggestion, but because you have also honoured the fight we had taken together on this issue since 2017, because it was unfair to continue this measure. Ladies and gentlemen, the government through this tax bill sends a positive signal to society. It creates a climate of confidence in the taxpayer while opening the way for new investments. Society appreciates this message positively, collects it and converts it into an improvement in the economic climate, an improvement that is diffuse. There is little interest in destructiveness and blind opposition, since the citizens themselves are overtaken by it. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis respects its commitments in full, unites citizens and society and forms the conditions for strong and sustainable development for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u301	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u302	Madam President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u303	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u304	The two amendments of the Ministry of Finance have been tabled. Another one will be lodged, which is the exceptional allowance. Just the second one that has just been tabled - you will obviously study it - among other things, I would like to highlight a number of issues. It has for corporate cars, it has for pollutants, it has for donations to private institutions, to give more incentives. He's got two more settings. They now fall under the reduced rate of VAT of 6% from 13% on drugs that have to do with unpleasant diseases, such as cancer, diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis and myasthenia. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] They are also now excluded from the application of the LuxOpCo tax, from the tax year 2019 onwards, private passenger cars for multiple families.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u305	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u306	Will we have any more amendments, or will they alone?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u307	From the Treasury these three.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u308	From other ministries?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u309	I don't have anything in mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u310	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister said that he has no more than his Ministry, so we will wait if there are other ministries. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I would ask you, precisely because you sound too loud and especially when you talk to colleagues from the Step, a little lower. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-one students and students and five educational sessions from the General Lympidio Arcadias High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I will now give the floor to Mr Hatzidisiou from New Democracy and will follow Mr Gokas from the Change Movement. Here you go, Mr. Hatzidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u311	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again the New Democracy Government is consistent with its election commitments and is bringing the necessary corrections to a more just system of taxation and, above all, more encouraging development. That's our big bet anyway. The reduction of the tax rate from 22% to 9% is the most comprehensive intervention of this bill and will bring great relief to everyone not only those who say EUR 10 000 income but to all taxpayers as income is scrupulously taxed. So we today practically support the middle class, the one SYRIZA tried to disappear. The citizens are waiting to resurrect from the tax raid of the previous period and we are strengthening their purchasing power. For example, a professional with an income of 15,000 euros paid a tax of 3,300 euros. The tax now falls to 2,000 euros a year. Also important are tax measures to boost entrepreneurship, attraction of foreign investments and support for workers. The lower rate of 10% for agricultural cooperative schemes is an important step towards facilitating farmers. Especially in rural areas, where I come from, and I am the world in need of relief, and this is finally happening. However, the most important of this bill, ladies and gentlemen, is its symbolism. In the previous period taxes ended up being a huge burden for Greek citizens. The SYRIZA government overcompensated even the air we breathe and all of this without any return at all. The world paid incredible sums to a state that continued to be difficult and inefficient. You took money from Greek citizens and instead of using them for the development and improvement of infrastructure, you did micro-policy, subsidised policy, a policy that, although it temporarily relieved the weak, only managed to re-size poverty. And here is a fundamental overall difference between us and SYRIZA. For us, taxation is not a tool for the cultivation of political ideology, it is not an end in itself. Instead, it is a development tool, it is a means to improve the lives of all citizens, the lives of many. We believe in another model, a model based on fewer taxes and more freedom for the worker, the professional, the businessman, the farmer, the hirer, to make his income available as he wishes. Use it in investments? Consum it? To save it? Whatever he wants. Unfortunately, the previous government did something unprecedented. He demonized whoever produced and earned something more and this today ends and is true justice. It is not justice to equate the standard of living of many downwards. For the New Democracy it is a priority to increase the income available to all households, and of course we disagree very strongly with the punishment of anyone who wins. We don't criminalize the profit. We are taxing businesses in a fair way and leaving them room for growth, for the creation of new jobs. I will close with the measures that relieve our fellow citizens of sensitive categories. We have a responsibility as a society to do our utmost for our fellow citizens with disabilities, for them and for their families. The state must facilitate their daily lives, not make it difficult for it. That is why we are voting for the exemption from the solidarity levy for all people with disabilities of over 80%. It is a first positive sign of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who has been focusing his interest in the disabled. Today, then, we are taking the first steps towards restoring tax justice and we will work hard to bring even greater relief for everyone in the future. We have also proved that, when possible, we are bringing tax reductions earlier than we have promised and that remains our objective. Mr Stakoras also said so: 'We are reducing taxes and not increasing them'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u312	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Gokas from the Change Movement now has the floor, and immediately afterwards Mr Tsigris from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u313	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the government's tax bill, while we are still at a long distance from the real and definitive exit from the crisis, which has been closed for a decade now. It is a bill that does not have the characteristics of a serious tax reform, without a development dimension for Greece of tomorrow, whose content denies its title. The overtaxation of recent years and high insurance contributions have led to poverty incomes for professionals and businesses, as total charges have reached up to 75% of net income. The government remains committed to the previous government's line with the management of real estate by the Ultimate House for nine years, control and high primary surpluses by 2060, and in particular surpluses of 3.5% to 2023, while debt is EUR 370 billion, 182% of GDP. What is the much advertised readiness? Apart from the communication of the individual provisions, in the development and tax field, no comprehensive plan has been drawn up. Ladies and gentlemen, a tax bill is a feature of the government's policy on the functioning and development of the economy, the progress of the place. But does his direction strengthen social cohesion? Does it create conditions for recovery in an established economy? Are we going to go to a simple, fair tax system, stable to give power to the small and medium-sized enterprises, to the professional, who will be the basis of productive and development reconstruction, which will serve the objective of supporting production and labour, so that there is incomes, revenues for the State and opportunities for social cohesion and solidarity policies, which will ensure employment and dignity for the citizen, instead of the logic of poorer and distribute benefits? Unfortunately, this is not the case. It doesn't come from what we're talking about. In order to do this, there is a need for a decisive reduction in taxes and other financial burdens for businesses and professionals to survive or create new activities. There's a lot of talk about the middle class. The middle class, ladies and gentlemen, which we know is no longer there. He disappeared from the policies of the previous SYRIZA government. The current government gives a new definition of the middle class and decides that there is no need to alleviate incomes from EUR 10 to EUR 20,000. It seems that there is no post-election of what they have heard about the political and social necessity of rescheduling the middle class. So you are talking today about tax relief, gentlemen of the government. It is good to reduce the tax rate to 9% for incomes of up to EUR 10,000 for professionals and businesses. But let us see three numbers: For employees and pensioners' incomes of EUR 9 000, the benefit is EUR 47, for EUR 10 000 is EUR 147, for EUR 20,000 is EUR 0. In other words, with EUR 20,000 for you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, someone is rich and must not have tax relief despite the years that have experienced the crisis and the great tax burdens that they already carry on their back. Another crucial issue is the direct and indirect tax relationship, a matter for discussion and regulation. But what arrangement can we talk about? The indirect and direct taxes ratio in 2014 was 1.15, while the forecast for 2020 is 1.5. She's socially unfair. We stress that indirect taxes are more burdensome and decisively weak. That is why we are proposing, first of all, Mrs Fofi Gennimata, the reduction of VAT by a percentage of one unit from 1 to 2020 on tax justice and relief for the weaker layers. Also, how much tax relief is the reduction in tax advance from 100% to 95%, which drowns professionals and businesses? Looks like a mock. How much and for whom is the reduction of HPAI, when the objective values of the properties are increased, including agricultural parcels and consistent with many charges associated with the transfer of real estate? We recognise, ladies and gentlemen, that companies in the form of legal persons need tax relief, but that the rate of 24% is not sufficient, but that provision must also be made for further tax relief measures. However, they should be linked to incentives and job growth and new investments. We even propose that it go to 20%. The taxation of dividends, which are reduced to 5%, is also horizontal with no other conditions. I would like to refer to the amendment we tabled. We propose an increased rate of costs of up to 50% for every new employee hire, as well as a high tax depreciation rate for high technological investment categories, while a five-year support programme for young entrepreneurs and professionals with a three-year income tax and contributions and this main pension sector by 50% for the next two years. Other aspects of our proposal are the abolition of the solidarity levy for natural persons, the abolition of the trade fee, and once again we are proposing the establishment and creation of an irresponsible account for professionals and small businesses to survive. However, I would like to stand - before I close - on the proposed measures in the amendment we have tabled and concern farmers. In particular, we propose 9% tax rate for profits from a rural enterprise for income of up to EUR 10,000 and 13% for excess taxable income. There is a duty-free regime for the payments of the Common Agricultural Policy, as well as for all types of agricultural compensation, except for the single payment when it exceeds EUR 20,000. The sum collected from the taxation of direct payments of more than EUR 20,000 is exclusively directed towards further strengthening the establishment of producer groups and organisations, as well as actions implemented by collective organisations from farmers. For professional farmers who deliver their agricultural products to producer groups and agricultural cooperatives, of which they are members, the revenues from these traditions are considered to be reduced by 35% to encourage this process and to prevent other things that we all know about. The farmers under the special VAT arrangements under Article 41 of Law 2859/2000, which deliver their agricultural products to producer groups and agricultural cooperatives, of which they are members, are also entitled to reimbursement of 5% of the VAT in question. Of course - I am quoting - the farmers are waiting for the Prime Minister's pre-election for a reduction in the excise duty on oil. How will you view farmers, ladies and gentlemen? Finally, we are proposing to reintroduce an exception to the value of the rights of outside towns, i.e. parcels, from the calculation of the additional tax on HISA. We call on you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government and Minister, to incorporate the proposals of the amendment we have tabled in order to ensure that there is a real tax relief which is not offset by charges which are not included and which are not put forward in the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u314	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr. Tsigris from New Democracy has the floor, then Mr. Xanthopoulou from SYRIZA, and immediately thereafter Mr. Tsakalotos as a parliamentary representative also from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u315	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has not been five months since the day of the new government's vowing and we have almost reached the resolution of thirty bills. Christmas will be here. This means that there is a majority that works at a rapid pace. But a government and its legislative work are not judged solely by the amount of lawmaking. As a result, there is no question of quantification. Everything is judged to be qualitative. So there's also a critical quality size. What bills these are and what a fine they have. They are commonly positive bills, which lighten weights by the backs of the Greek citizens, which relieve the average Greek family, which contribute to the establishment of the rule of law, which restore security to the daily lives of the citizen, which shield the borders, which, as far as possible, revise the failures of our charter, which lay the foundations for Greece of development, the pretext. But at the same time, they don't forget to put a protection net on the weak, the vulnerable, the vulnerable, the vulnerable. [[At this point the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS, takes over the presidential office.]] Ladies and gentlemen, more than twenty tax bills were passed in the years of the crisis. But not all of this was in the positive direction. Around two hundred ministerial circles were issued each year to specialize these bills. Not all in the right direction. The new government has passed two tax bills and they are all in the direction of reducing burdens from the backs of the winter Greek people, especially the middle class. Of course, it also respects the basic constitutional principles, which must govern the drafting of tax laws, the fiscal capacity of citizens. So you have to ask the taxpayer what he can give you. No more. You must allow the taxpayer to pay tax if he has the ability, but at the same time the law must be legal. Who, then, does this tax bill benefit? All of them. 80% of households, with tax reductions greater than EUR 1 billion. It brings relief to natural persons, free professionals, employees, pensioners, farmers, fishermen, winegrowers, wine growers, people with disabilities. We celebrated the day before yesterday on the world day of people with disabilities. But the right way of celebrating day work is by doing plays. They are reduced tax burdens by both multiples, parents, businesses, from all over the Greek society. The new tax bill enables sectors affected during the ten-year crisis to recover, raise their heads. In the construction sector, VAT and capital gains are suspended. This is how the construction sector will breathe in our country, giving life again to a hundred and fifty jobs. This reduces unemployment: with incentives. But something else is important that has not been discussed very much. Tax debts are paid to more than five hundred thousand taxpayers. The sum of EUR 10 may seem to be very small, but the total amount of EUR 105 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u316	Obviously not billions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u317	Millions. Mr. Loverdou's remark is very correct. Mr. Loverdo, thank you. Of course it's 105 million euros. Imagine, the case is that an elderly person on an island forgets his tax debts for years and that 10 euros have become disproportionate to the backs of the financial burden. This possibility now ceases to exist, since it has no special budgetary benefit, no financial costs for the State. At the same time, the IRS file is cleared. Tax administration is exempted from a large financial cost. What's the cost? Paper, prints, employees, computers. What does that mean? Acceleration, reduction of operating costs, facilitation of procedures. The aim is to develop the economy, to promote citizens' wellbeing, to protect the weak, to promote social solidarity and social cohesion, which are now being acted upon. We give help to our people with disabilities, since no one will ever pay for a contribution of solidarity. And not just that. Families are encouraged to have children in a ageing Greece. In Greece, which, according to the parliamentary intergroup for demographics in 2025, in five years' time from now, will have a million four hundred thousand less residents. How will the births increase? With motive. That's what the tax bill does. We motivate the Greeks to become better and more consistent drivers. But we should also be able to take security measures. [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] In thirty seconds, Mr. President. It motivates the biker to get a bike. It motivates green growth. It motivates people who, until yesterday, were in obscurity, to be able to stand on their feet again. At the same time, it acts as a basic objective of the government. Serves consistency. Once again, this government is implementing more than it has promised in an election. Obviously, it has been understood to everyone that this will be the main message he wants to give to Greek society. That we keep our word. Citizens can once again trust politicians and politicians and election speeches at last become post-election acts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u318	Mr. Xanthiopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u319	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are meeting today and we are tormenting the draft law tabled by the Government, under the rule of the removal of the Minister, Mr Diadiaris. Finally, it's time to get the rest of the excellences that you unite around the government, and not just, shape. I am making this introduction because, as excellent, you should not bring in a bill, which has obvious manoeuvres highlighted by the Scientific Service of Parliament, and I will comment on them precisely to demonstrate the curiosity with which you are working. On page 16 of the report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament reads: "It is first of all noted that the proposed new article of 48 A of the Code is not a title". In addition, ‘it is not clear what the report on loss recognition, which arises after 1 January 2020, as the new provisions will apply after 1 July 2020.’ On page 18 of the text makes you a trumpet: 'end of all, the term 'websites' must be pointed out to the ombudsman'. On page 24 of the report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament: "It is also legal in nature that the introductory statements made at the end of this paragraph should be deleted". For the lion, ladies and gentlemen. I want to get to the bottom of the bill. What is a tax bill, then? Basically, it's a redistributive function of the state. But what constitutes a lawful tax bill? It recommends a downward redistribution, and this bill does not at all take care of it. On the other hand, this bill reiterates the consistent view of the conservative party, who have less to pay, because they are supposed to invest, and the few to endure and suffice to the very least, because growth is supposed to include them all. See a little what Parliament's Scientific Service is again commenting on: "The abolition of the tax-free amount of income or the introduction of a tax-free amount of income, which is below the taxpayer's minimum standard of living, raises concerns about the application of taxation on the basis of tax capacity". It is not the Syrians who say it, it is not the leftists who say it, it is people who look at the whole and speak it on the basis of the principles of justice, sociality and not just. See what he says to you on page 10: 'Since the court concludes that the State is obliged to ensure that citizens who do not themselves have the minimum means of subsistence, which respects human value, do not seem to be consistent with this obligation to deduct, through taxation, what must be reimbursed to them in the form of social assistance benefits'. See also on page 11, where it speaks of the famous 30% of credit card expenditure: ‘Since it appears that the penalty on income or expenditure or property does not appear to be imposed, but of the non-execution of expenditure, which cannot, in the above, be taxed and, furthermore, the charge imposed does not appear to be constitutionally tolerated and in the light of the principle of proportionality’. I would like to point this out because from the introduction and so far we are listening to the government of Mr Mitsotakis. Stop repeating it. We know that the government is Mr. Mitsotakis's. So happy that the government is Mr. Mitsotakis's? You don't question it, relax. So the government of Mr Mitsotakis does this, the government of Mr Mitsotakis does this, and I want to say it, that all citizens hear it: Mr Mitsotakis' government does what any conservative government does. It takes of the many and gives the few and convinces the few to wait for the growth of many. You say it, to hide the favor of high incomes, you say it, to create a smokescreen, by commenting and analyzing this bill. It is a deep commitment that you have to serve the people who hold and seem to understand very well that today society is waiting for another kind of policy, the one you are following. We, ladies and gentlemen of the Conservative majority, managed to get the country out of the memoranda and create stock. Eat from the ready. There you press and there you make these gestures. If there were no prudent, clean, honest and, above all, the efficient economic policy of SYRIZA, you would not have had anything to claim, you would have nothing to invoke. Today, the surplus of the Greek people goes to those who do not need it. Because this is the core of your conservative and neoliberal logic. And in that sense we will be across from SYRIZA and the tested society. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u320	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Chakalotos, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u321	Thank you, Mr President. Like Mr. Xanthopoulou, I'm trying to overcome the exposure syndrome in excessive excellence. It's a difficult thing to do with this syndrome, but I think we can get through it. Excellency of recruitment. I don't have to say anything more. This has been analysed by our own Members. Excellence in the follow-up to the debate within the House. Here, we have heard from so many and so many Members that it is the first budget, which reduces taxes. The first expansion budget. Where were you last year? Wasn't our first expansion budget? It was. Memory loss even more in the debate in the committee. Our rapporteur, Mr Alexiadis, has asked you nine questions to which we have no answer. You have not even bothered to answer GSEVA about its criticism of the distribution of company tax reductions and how developmental they are. But we have even more loss, even more recent. Today - you were not kind enough to mention it, Minister - we had the review of ELSTAT, which has revised growth in the first quarter from 1.1% to 1.4% and in the second quarter from 1.9% to 2.8%. Does that explain the miracle that Mr. Loverdes asked you about, how did you manage the deficit, which you said the gap of 300 million, become a surplus? Because the answer you gave, that is, from the hundred and twenty doses and the state's household, does not even believe small children. Could Mr. Juliarakis not have anticipated this surplus, why did he not know that evidence? The abolition of all your rumours that there was no strong growth? In the second quarter there was an increase of 2.8%, and that is more likely to create the'magic', that is to say, you can change a budget gap into a budget surplus, only with the hundred and twenty instalments. So here we have excellence or a lack of excellence even in economic analysis and economic policy. We shall now proceed to the substance of the bill. For the whole of the Greek economy and society, for all, there is a principle in statistics and especially in statistics on finances, that "h" times the "let go" is "let go". In other words, when you give a small percentage increase to low-wages that are'stop going', their situation is'stop going'. To take a random example: If an income of 500 euros reduces by 5%, it takes 25 euros, if you do 5% to 50,000 euros, it takes 2,500 euros. When the same percentage reduction is given, apparently the richest win, because with the 25 euros one can cover the cigarettes of a month, while with the 2,500 thousand euros a family can arrange holidays in London on Christmas, the first place on the plane and stay at the hotel "SAVOY" for three days. That's what you do and that's what you do in your own statistics. Because the 'truth' economy you had, as Sir Humphrey says from 'Maysta, Prime Minister', did not let you analyse what you submitted to the Commission and said about the income available, that under 10% of the population earned 72 euros and over 10% won 353 euros. And how could it be otherwise when pensioners and employees who are a large part of society get increases, depending on the example, from EUR 17 per month to EUR 17 per year, up to zero per year? It couldn't have been different. Another economy of truth, which you have said many times, that HIS goes everywhere. Yeah, the 400 million that you're reducing because HNPH's going everywhere. The 200 extras, the extras you gave, they don't go everywhere. Your contribution was one of those 205, 100 to go into property of over 500,000. Mr Alexiadis asks you, in other cases 'Why are you doing this?' You say, 'But they are few.' Is that a argument? As Mr Alexiadis said. Is that a argument? Why did these 100 million have to go into property for over 500,000? Is that really a priority? We are going to go to the overall package and we will analyse it in the budget. As far as we are concerned, it is wrong to be the package so 'fucked' towards tax evasion. By leaving the Memorandum, we had to reduce certain taxes and, at the same time, increase social spending on health and education. This is how we help populaces and middle layers. You want to identify the middle class only as taxpayers and help them with security when you do not give them enough financial supplies. As if in Ptolemais or in Lakka Suli it will be a great relief to the middle class that there is no asylum at the university and that they will feel more security. They're not just taxpayers. And the popular layers and the middle layers have many qualities. They're parents too, they're parents whose children go to school, they need hospitals, they want safety in the neighborhood, but they want expenditure. But let's go to your piece. You once again told us half the tax, which we would not have deducted, because it had to go so much to the tax, it went to the business. You're telling us he's going to every business. You have said so, and you have shown us by hand, both in small and medium-sized and in large. Really? From our data, 80% of the benefit goes to six thousand companies, i.e. 2.5%. 80% goes to 2.5% of the companies. Is that what you mean by'small and medium-sized and large'? That's gonna be your development? Two and a half thousand businesses? That is why we tabled an amendment - you did not have the courtesy to tell us whether it is good or bad or not - which takes account of 600 million. We say that these 600 million, instead of giving them to 2.5% of businesses, will be useful to gradually reduce taxes on businesses, with 1% this year, not to reduce company dividends, from 10% to 5%, which goes to very few, and to reduce tax advances for legal persons, but also to free professionals to 85%. Let's have a serious conversation. Six hundred? Six hundred for business, but is what you say more growth than what we say? Or I would say to you with another amendment to go to depreciation so that companies are forced to make the investment in order to get the money. To have such a debate, but to make it seriously, not the way you do it, that there is no real exchange of views. It is neither a social budget - I have given you the information, because it is not social - and it is neither developmental. Finally, excellence in economic analysis and economic theory, tell us some examples that have worked. In the United States, will the reductions in business taxes promised by Trump increase revenue and growth? What's your analysis? Is the American economy okay? Has it worked? Have the revenue increased? Does this economy have a future? I don't think so. I think you have missed a great opportunity for a different policy and you have stuck in the conservative views to identify the world that they are only taxpayers. And when it does not come out of you - which will not come out in the sense that the EUR 15 per month or EUR 15 per year will not change how the world feels - you will see that you have costs. Unless you want to go to elections quickly so you don't have the cost. As a parliamentary representative, let me finish in one or two minutes with another issue. It's St. Nicholas's Eve and I want to wish every Nicholas and every Nikki many years, but also to keep a promise. A few weeks ago Mrs Kerameou, who celebrates tomorrow, said: "We do not want the story in our schools to have many social reports and must create national consciousness". I told her that in her feast I would give her a book, "1066 And All This", written in 1930 in Britain, which mocks the work of history. It shows by mocking how dangerous this prospect is. That's why the book subtitle says it's for a hundred and three good things, five bad kings and two genuine dates. Why am I putting it now? Because of Mr. Velopoulos' speech. For many years, we have all had to fight anti-Semitism - it is a permanent obligation - which returns more to the parties on the right in Europe, less to the left, but I do not exclude the Left. Now we have Islamophobia as a major danger. And that's what we need to take seriously. Will the national conscience teach that we have Aristotle and ancient texts, due to translation by Islam’s people in the Middle Ages? The national consciousness will teach our children that the first university was neither Bologna nor, unfortunately, Oxford, but the university of Al - Azhar? Will national conscience tell us anything about Islam's contribution to poetry, architecture and that it is one of the great cultures, such as Christianity? Can we tackle Islamophobia, racism with that perspective? Are we taking this seriously? And especially your party? You have a debt, after what happened in the Prespes and which is done with the refugee, not to let that risk become a reality. It's a very dangerous situation. I tell you to put down Mr Velopoulos's word and what he said about Islam. Like Islam is one thing. As if Christianity is one thing. Of course, it has black pages in Islam, as Christianity has black pages, but is that how we're going to go forward? And for those who are considered Christians and supporters of Christianity to say that I do not listen to love in their speeches, I hear nothing about love. So I invite you all to keep our ears open and not to hide when there are such talks in this House. All I would ask you, Minister, is to grant this book to Mrs. Keramea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u322	The Minister has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u323	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have heard the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman make some references, repeating many times the words "excellence" and "memorandum of memory". I have not responded to any communications he has made recently, such as, for example, the change of members of the Supervisory Board in the Supreme Court. Yesterday, during the Eurogroup, the choices of the current government were adopted by the institutions. You will allow me to tell you that among the three members there is no person who is a SYRIZA official's wife, as in the previous government. This is about 'excellence'. I didn't answer that, but I was waiting for the moment. I also don't know about many partners who, five days after the elections, went to some bodies, Minister, apart from a public notice, by way of derogation from fixed regularity. On time, too. Let's go on the subject of memory voids. It's a little too much of a memory gap.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u324	How about government excellence? Did the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs resign? What are you telling us? Aren't you going to apologize for that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u325	I listened very carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u326	I hear you very carefully, too, but there are some issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u327	If you're interfering, how do you hear me carefully? You said a blank memory. Weren't you the ones who would have resigned if you had reduced the tax? You reduced it and didn't give up. Memory void? Aren't you the ones who told the House on 18 May 2017 that by the end of the year - are the Minutes here - will there be a complete lifting of capital restrictions? When was the complete withdrawal of capital restrictions? In August 2019. Weren't you the one who failed all the development predictions? Because you said about growth and I don't want to get over it. You predicted 2.7% in 2017. How much did you do? You've achieved 1.5%.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u328	You were saying that last year. Make a point. Find some argument today about what we told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u329	I didn't bother you, I didn't interrupt you when you were talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u330	Yeah, but don't make an exchange for 2017. For today, do you have anything to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u331	Mr. President, please...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u332	Mr. Vitsa, do you not understand that the Minister wants to answer Mr. Tsakalotos, if he is mentioned, will he have to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u333	This is a personal attack.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u334	So, as President, would you interrupt the Minister in what he says? Can this be done? So he doesn't have the responsibility of the Minister of His Names? You're a Vice President of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u335	Mr President, we tell you to tell the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u336	Mr. Vica, if Mr. Tsakalotus wants to talk, he'll talk. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u337	No, I want to talk and they're stalling my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u338	Mr. Tsakalotus understands. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u339	I've been in the House for 12 years, and I've never interrupted anyone. In 2017 the estimate was 2.7% and ultimately growth was 1.5% against the government of SYRIZA. In 2018 the estimate was for 2.5% and the government of SYRIZA developed 1.9%. In 2019, the estimate was for 2.5% - not to be forgotten - and is predicted to be 2%. You said: How can there be improvement in recent years? Did they become magical? Did we have revenue shortfall in June? Do you want to go for a month to see? Have we been overrun since July in income interest? Am I going to repeat this table - something changed in Greece from May onwards? Because that includes the second quarter. Indeed, because I saw a communication from you, expectations are, you know, an important part of the economic analysis. One last thing. Because you said again about memory gaps, business tax from 26% to 29% who took it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u340	From 20% to 26% who took her?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u341	The tax advance from 55% to 100% who took her? The solidarity levy, who perpetrated it? Finally, because I like to read and study everyone, please come to an understanding. ‘Documento’, 1 December 2019: ‘With the tax reform submitted to Parliament, the Government is helping very low incomes and high and high incomes.’ Come on, come on, come on, come on, come
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u342	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u343	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u344	Mr. Chaakalot, you have the floor on staff. I would ask, however, that the procedure be completed here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u345	It upsets me that, while Mr. Stavouras had the opportunity to talk politically, he made a personal attack on what I said in 2017, who were our choice, who were extremely worthy and "switched", people to criticize me. Because in our vision, if it's someone's wife, it doesn't mean they're not worth it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u346	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u347	A congressman.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u348	Ah, a SYRIZA MEP.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u349	It doesn't mean they're not worth it. We are judging by the criteria and the curriculum. You do not do this in many cases, as has emerged in the last few days. It is a great pity that we have a Minister of Finance, who, while having had the opportunity to have a serious debate about what I said, about whether they should be from here or from there, where to spend them, while having a serious debate on the information he sent to the Commission on the allocation, which he says is not the same, all he does is say what I said about duty in 2017, etc. In fact, to us of SYRIZA, but also to our Greek people, we deserve better.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u350	Thank you, Mr. Chakaloto. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirteen students and an educational session by the Public Transformation Board. The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u351	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u352	Mr Lebanese has asked for the floor before you. He's a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u353	I don't want the floor for twelve minutes, but for twenty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u354	You'll be waiting. He's been asking to speak for four minutes. He asked for the floor first.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u355	It is not a question of asking for the floor first, but of making a personal reference to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u356	He'll speak first and then I'll give you the floor. Mr Levane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u357	Mr. Chakalote, we were all here and we heard the Minister. He didn't make any personal attacks on you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u358	Then you have a lack of very recent memory. Ten minutes ago, he attacked me personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u359	Whatever. We have heard and, if you allow us, we have our opinion, and I have my personal opinion too. It was a purely political position about what you said a few years ago and they were also documented positions on what you said about the criticism you have made, but also what our Government has done. I think it is acceptable to you that dialogue can take place, that we may have different views and not get upset when someone does not agree with you. With regard to what you have said, and because I have no memory loss - I have heard you - since we entered this new phase and you are in the chairs of counter-population, since we have been having this public debate here in Parliament, and I have the honour of being in these chairs, I have heard you constantly reintroducing the same arguments. What are your arguments practically? That we do not make alleviations for the many, but we do for the few and the way we put them to the market practically favours the few and explains how the rich earn a 2,500 euro trip to London, first place. We're not talking about these people, Mr. Chakalote. You may have this in your mind, the weekends in London. What we are doing is clear, given that there has also been a public consultation within this framework. What you're doing now is embarrassing, if you're kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u360	Your level!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u361	Your level is to leave when the other one is addressed to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u362	I'm going to London. Is that the argument you're telling the people?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u363	That's not what I said. But if you want to say that you are on a democratic side, you can also hear dialogue and questioning.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u364	Lots of nerves.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u365	Lots of nerves. In any case, however, what we are saying is that our policy concerns the many people. What you are saying has not been supported by bodies, but by the vast majority of the people who support these measures in all the investigations carried out. You said in the budget that we have the wrong mix, because we are only doing tax relief. This is the second inaccuracy and contradiction of Mr Tsakalotou, who just ran out of the Chamber, because at the same time - I have no memory loss, rather he has no good follow-up in his mind - who told us that we are not making tax evasions, blames us that our budget is full of tax evasions. I have to say to him, however, that we will also discuss this next week - that expenditure on both education and health in the budget is increased. With our policy next year, they will be higher. As to why we bring the tax from 28% to 24%, this is indeed an ideological difference. You say we only reduce 1% to give this money elsewhere. We say that we want a little shock in business taxation, because we believe in the social dimension of entrepreneurship, to which you do not believe and which you have fought.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u366	Mr. Colleague, you're not a dentist.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u367	I'm doing my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u368	There's no dentistry now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u369	How isn't there? It exists under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u370	Mr Levane, in order for there to be a dentex, we need to complete the whole process. You've spoken for the first time. I understood that you asked for the floor for two to three minutes on the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u371	No, I asked for my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u372	We have not finished the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u373	We've finished the debate. All the parliamentary representatives have spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u374	Not everyone has spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u375	I haven't spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u376	I'm sorry, then. In any case, Mr President, I have said half I will say the other half if it does not matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u377	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u378	We therefore believe that, as long as taxation on enterprises is reduced, the turnover increases, employment increases and, by extension, public revenue increases. That is our view. Accept it. It's a majority in the Greek people too. At the end of his speech Mr Chakalotos - who left as we said in the Chamber - accused America of its model. We're not with Trump or Obama. We are with Greece, but in the years of one presidency and the other and today, whether we like it or not, there is a record of employment and a record of reducing unemployment in America. Regarding the position of some colleagues and Mr Velopoulos on the issues of Turkey's aggression, it is clear that the neighbour's provocation and aggression on the issue of agreements with Libya, but also the change of attitude, in relation to the Europe-Turkey agreement on the refugee problem, creates a tension in our region. The Prime Minister of Greece is facing - in the past, but also in these days - these developments with seriousness and rigour, basically ensuring our national interests, ensuring the international network and emphasizing national self-confidence and national unity. It requires solidarity from the partners in NATO and the European Union, it highlights the legal nullity of the discussed lyby-Turkey agreements, and it brings allies together and we see them one - one coming out, from President McCrone, the European Union, the representative of Russia. So it sums them up in the direction of the law which is our national position. In other words, he does what every Greek leader in charge would do. As in my speech yesterday in plenary, I would like to recommend to my fellow Members and to Mr Velopoulos and the party of coolness and moderateness, wisdom and consensus. On our national issues - that is good for the SYRIZA side too, because we heard what the former Prime Minister said yesterday at the parliamentary group meeting and how he raised the tone - the opposition rise only causes damage. On the subject of information on yesterday's meeting and, in any case, on the subject of Libya, which Mr Loverdos has raised, it is a Prime Minister's decision - perhaps Mr Velopoulos had not heard it when he spoke before and said that we do not want to inform the other parties - Mr Twelfths to inform the Supreme Foreign Policy Council, the parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u379	Before the meeting, we talked about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u380	No, not today he said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u381	Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u382	Last night the Prime Minister said so. Nevertheless - Mr. Loverdos is here to tell you - as Mr. Dendias has returned from Egypt, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Monday morning - spoke to the parties' representatives and informed them of developments, to the extent that he himself had knowledge. In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say, Mr Loverdo, that we are not afraid of getting information and thought from the Heads of State or Government, even if it is done. It is just the Prime Minister's choice, it is the government's choice, at this point in the critical phase that Greek-Turkish relations are going through to inform the level that we said before, the Minister of Foreign Affairs. We all hope that we do not need more, but you have no doubt that it is the Prime Minister's duty and dialogue and understanding and national unity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u383	Ladies and gentlemen, to be fair to everyone, Mr Lebanese had made his protagonists, but unfortunately he had not been here. So I thought he'd make his protology. Unfortunately, Mr Lebanese, there is no dentistry, because not all colleagues have finished...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u384	Do you mean the Parliamentary Representatives?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u385	Speakers too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u386	I was wrong, I thought all the parliamentary representatives had spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u387	Mr. Papadimitriou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u388	Mr President, I asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u389	Yes, you're right, Mr. Heta. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u390	I only want one minute, Mr President, for what Mr Tsakalots said, which, of course, did not have to hear the answers. Mr. Tsakalotes - you're back - to make your inner-party game, you're not going to spoon with the Greek Solution. Because you wanted to make headlines today, intelligence from you we do not accept. You talked about Islamophobia. You will allow me to say that from your side we see an Islamist worship that we do not understand. If we are fearful of the Islamics, who are not - because otherwise Mr Velopoulos said - I would like to say that you are fearful and have proved it too many times over the Greeks. He talked about a Christian tolerant Greece and Europe, Kyriakos Velopoulos, tolerant because everything has a limit. I really do wonder, with this Islamism of yours, and I wonder if you understand that you are addressing a Greek Parliament and a Greek citizen. We also referred to the fanatical Islam that is not just a religion. We did not say about the Islamics, we did not say about the other religions that exist in society and which we accept. We said about the fanatical Islam that cut keyboards, heads cut, etc. That's what we talked about. It is a dangerous situation, therefore, that we live and not what Mr Velopoulos or us say. I would like to say one last thing to you, because you really are racist towards the Greeks. You said you do not know how Christians should love. It is very normal not to know, for you are not a Christian, you are an atheist. You will allow us, we who believe in our religion to know very well about love. Because, Mr. Chakalote, you love the whole world and you're rich, why don't you take five, six of them to host them in one of your homes, so you can alleviate society?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u391	Thank you very much. Mr. Papadimitriou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u392	Thank you, Mr President. On the GDP figures which have been announced today, I have to make an observation before I begin my speech. Those who noticed them - I'm sure Mr. Chakalotos noticed them - would see that it's registered in these facts what we said and you didn't want to believe, that what makes the economy, more than other things in the end, is psychology, is a sense of perspective. Of course, I do not deny that, apart from the feeling that you have a pro-business government, a government which will immediately take tax reduction measures, there was, of course, also the increased state expenditure, which has now been recorded in retrospectively, which took place in the last month with the measures that have been adopted, both by the majority and by the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government's initiatives, which conclude for this year the cycle of tax relief for citizens and reduce tax pressure on businesses and professionals, have opened an interesting debate - the truth - on the middle class. The impressive - it is right not to forget - is that in the ten years of crisis the same party, New Democracy, has been reducing taxes. It was the first time in 2014 by the government of Samaras - Venizelos. We had just succeeded in balancing the financial accounts and we were about to finish the second memorandum, which we had at the time. Then the first dividend was made to the most afflicted of the crisis of our fellow citizens. Then the minimum guaranteed income began. In contrast to what many believe, the political area that is interested in what we now call'medium-class' is represented in the Parliament by the New Democracy Party. I would like to remind you - which is why I caught it, thanks to the help of a good friend - which shows this follow-up. It was in 1984 when the late Evangelos Averov Tositsa, addressed to the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, noted: "The New Democracy is not a class party," he said. "It is the party of the people. In relation to today's form of political forces, he said, "The New Democracy is basically the medium-sized party". He was dominating then, as you all remember, the notion that philosophical is what serves the non-preferentials. The concept of medium-sized space, which Averov says, is exactly what we now call middle-class, because - I agree with Mr Tsakaloto - it is not just an income. It's a level of life, a way of life, it's a concept of what we think and how our society can go further. But then the inflation that caused uprooting and populist choices, which prevailed in the first half of the 1980s, led to successive crises that denounced the per capita income of the Greeks. Depreciation of the drachma in 1983 and a failed austerity programme, a crisis in the external trade balance, which led to a second compulsory devaluation of the drachma in 1985 and a new austerity. Financial crisis and the new drachma crisis in 1989, which were confronted by the then Mitsotakis government, with dynamism and, above all, with structural reforms. We had a fourth drachma crisis in 1993, which obliges the returning government of Papandreou to forget the popular promises with which it has been elected, to complete the liberalisation of capital movements and to focus on the country's preparation for the Maastricht criteria with the support of the New Democracy under Kostas Karamanlis now. The stabilization of the value of the currency with our introduction to the euro has eliminated inflation. And in conjunction with the flooding of cheap borrowing money, during the first decade of the Eurozone, it has increased the incomes of all Greeks at a rate that is unprecedented in the historical data of the country, but in particular, of those we are now turning under this rough definition and we are calling "medium-class". But what's the middle class? As the Minister for Finance has rightly presented the OECD figures, it starts from where the vulnerable population arrives and stops where the team starts our wealthy and wealthy fellow citizens. Our fellow citizens are, as you know, in poverty, including those at risk of poverty, namely a majority of pensioners, small owners and occasionally employed employees, who have unfortunately been affected in the last few years of the third memorandum. The Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Stakoras, brought the OECD's surveys closer to the Committee of Finance days ago, according to which households are located in Greece in the middle class with a three-person household of 11,000 and 29,000. It's 11,000 a.m. down and 29,000 a.m. There, we all agree in our discussions. Therefore, the reference made by Mr Stavoura to critical comments - unjustly in my opinion - is right to take into account in order to go to the next step. The next step is that we need to separate, not only on income criteria, the middle-class to lower, medium- and higher. The lower part of the media works in the private sector. He doesn't work in public. They're very few. He has lost one third of his wages, due to the crisis, systematically works in parttime employment and has serious debts, both in terms of tax and banking systems. Because of the fall in its standard of living it is now benefiting from all the beneficial tax measures taken by the government. Therefore - I imagine that we agree here - these measures are good, at least in this part. The average part of the middle class is the one that will pay less taxes, mainly because of HICP, the low rate - 22% goes to 9% - the reduction of professional reservations and the reduction of dividend tax. I understand the frustration many feel on the side of SYRIZA on this issue of dividends. However, it is right to understand that the tens of thousands of small businesses, which either did not share their profits or are their income, 5% are - I think - something that will appear at their income. I want you to note that the state has taken EUR 90,000, 000 in taxes, contributions, all together. This huge sum is the same today as that which was in 2009. 2009 was 92,000,000 euros. However, the middle-class in the meantime and in particular, this higher part of which we have not yet seen it benefit as much as it should, pays over-the-counter part of this total of EUR 90,000,000,000. I would like to tell you that state spending also - to see how they moved - decreased from 116.5 billion in 2009 to 80 billion. This is another important reason why there is discomfort in the middle-class, because, of course, there is the huge problem that state spending on public investment in particular leads to a situation where, literally, there is a lack of what the middle-class needs, so that it can put even more beans on growth and progress. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to tell you that the worst of what happened was that we had a tax raid, which no one expected. No one expected in 2014 nor even in the beginning of 2015, that we would have such a tax raid to pay the damage, which was done, not in the first half of 2015, as we are ending, but even in the first half of 2017, when the government then continued to try to play revolutionary. All that delay was paid to strong taxes. The crucial issue - in my opinion - on which the next step to reduce taxes will depend is to limit tax evasion - we are all agreed on this as well - and to achieve a high rate of growth through new investments. The draft law to be adopted, ladies and gentlemen, supports both these guidelines: relief for all, incentives to businesses, tax evasion all over the spectrum to create the basis for the next tax relief. It is therefore worth our full support of the remark, Minister, that we expect the Ministry of Finance to take the next complete step, much earlier than the next budget debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u393	Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u394	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, during the debate in the committee we stressed specific things. We are focusing our criticism on two main points. Firstly, in the fact that the New Democracy, when it was speaking in the run-up to economic growth, did not mean improving the economic conditions for a large social majority. The only development that seems to be of interest to the New Democracy is the unrealistic profitability of the economic elite, which it deserves. The second point is the type of growth that is being strengthened, a growth model that has its roots in the taxation of large capital with a view to supposed reinvestment in the economy, in order to create the conditions for greater growth and perhaps also to benefit medium and low levels. This will be based on the quick gain, without any benefit to the majority of citizens, that is, a recipe that has led us to the crisis. Minister, I will answer the tenth of the tax haven. I mention ten interventions in your bill. First: expropriation of companies that invest in real estate. Second: expropriation of portfolio investment companies. Thirdly, the expropriation of real estate funds. Wednesday: expropriation of persons with a very high income, who become tax residents of Greece. Thursday: expropriation to corporate bonds holders. Sixth: exemption from tax on immovable property in a variety of investment companies and shipping companies. Seventh: exemption of dividends. Eighth: expropriation of options. Ninth: expropriation of the company’s profits from the transfer of shares. Tenth: exemption of covered bonds interest collected by corporations. However, contrary to the provisions on the exemptions of the few, unfortunately, the provisions relating to the majority of the social groups cannot be categorised in ten points. Quite simply, because it is only four: a reduction in the tax rate to 9% for incomes of up to EUR 10,000; a reduction in VAT on infants and helmets; a temporary reduction in the tax advance to 95%; exemption from the contribution of AIFMs. The relevant Minister, in committee, said, among other things, that this tax bill equals tax evasion between enterprises and the low and medium-sized sectors. To tell the truth, we do not get this creative arithmetic that equates dozens of articles with four provisions. The reduction of taxes, ladies and gentlemen, requires a concrete plan. Most importantly, it requires the weighting of needs. We are also proposing to reduce the rates of legal persons from 28% to 25%, but gradually. This would, of course, gradually develop and be linked to the real improvement in the economic conditions of enterprises, and of course, it was also accompanied by other interventions, involving a large majority. For example, I will mention that we have legislated to abolish the trade tax for cooperative farmers, COMPAs and cooperatives, we have reduced HICP to 30%, we have moved on to reduce VAT on food focusing, we have reduced VAT on energy, district heating and gas. At the same time, we have made targeted contributions to labour rights, such as the increase in wages. On the other side of the bank, you proceed to horizontal tax relief without a plan. I ask you directly, ladies and gentlemen: what kind of incentives are you offering with investment from foreign funds that will not be declared or taxed? You're even abandoning this hypocritical statement. You don't keep your pretexts. How else can one explain the provision by which you are exempting shipping companies from the special property tax on immovable property used as gymnasiums? What, ladies and gentlemen of the government, are the development motivation behind this provision? What benefit from the payroll bill paid to basic wages? None! What is the benefit for medium incomes? 20 euros a month? You disprove your election promises to this world and therefore, Minister, you have made sure to incorporate in the middle-class incomes, starting from EUR 524 per month, stressing that the relief of the middle-class is not exhausted in income tax. You refer to measures of our own, such as the hundred and twenty doses and the reduction of HISBIA. So you admit that SYRIZA has implemented policies in favour of low and middle layers. Enter a horizontal measure, imposing 30% on electronic transactions. There is also an observation from the Scientific Service of the Parliament. At the same time, you are setting a trade ceiling of EUR 20,000 instead of the 30,000 currently in force. You find it difficult to collect costs with electronic transactions for low and medium incomes, while facilitating those with incomes such as EUR 110,000, after you ask them for less costs. At the same time, you are reducing the tax rate by EUR 20 per 1,000, in incomes of more than EUR 12 000. In other words, you are carrying an extra burden on the low and medium-sized layers. You are giving an environmental incentive to replace the fleet of companies with electric cars. It's positive as an environmental measure. But tell us who will benefit? Do you know of a company with a car with a value of EUR 40,000 before tax? Maybe to executives. You're reducing the corporate profit tax and you're celebrating. Let us remember that the surpluses, which are from the sale of the products of the producers themselves, are not taxed under the legislation of the SYRIZA Government. In itself, therefore, the provision offers nothing, since the cooperative producers do not have the extra tax deduction that we had announced in May. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Mr President, in half a minute I'm ending your tolerance. Finally, in the new fixed arrangement, which we had prepared for, and for which I had been extensively set up by the previous February, you are coming to put your own touch on, by counting the burden-sharing capacity of implied incomes. It will, to a very large extent, reduce the benefit to the citizens in need. Your bill follows the trumped-up of previous bills. You are trying to rewrite the story of the last ten years of the crisis with imaginable titles, giving a few and gifts to the few. You are constantly reconstructing the same arguments, those of overtaxation. Unfortunately, you are technically forgetting your things. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen. You forget that you have implemented the EMCDDA, the EBRD and, of course, the ENPI, with 3.7 billion in 2014. In addition, you imposed the trade charge, the solidarity levy, the excise duty on energy, the increase in VAT and excise duty, the reduction in the refund of agricultural oil. Let me also remind you that in 2010-2014 you have made cuts in wages and pensions. So who kicked the middle class? SYRIZA created an economic and social reserve, a reserve that we did not have the opportunity to find in the funds when we took over in 2015. Your deposit in 2015 was empty funds. We handed you a country to development orbit - confirmed by the latest review of ELSTAT for the first and second quarter of 2019 - regulated debt, financial space and reserve of 37 billion. With this bill, however, only 1% of society will float in happiness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u395	Mr. Giolas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u396	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's well-advertised draft law on tax reform with the great title, which refers to a brilliant tomorrow for Greece, proves a spectacular firework and a genocide. "He gave the mountain, and he gave it to me." The weakest economic classes were expecting tax reliefs. The medium-sized class, which has been hard tested during the fiscal adjustment period, has been expected to have a corresponding range of support. Investment incentives were looking forward to higher income levels and enterprises. Instead, the low and small- and medium-sized layers offer tips. The middle class is irresistible, with zero reductions, which are, however, cancelled by increases in sectors such as inflation growth, insurance contributions, HPAI, an increase in electricity tariffs and goes on to say, which ultimately reduce the taxpayer's available income and reverse the hopes of the election promises of the New Democracy. On the contrary, tax relief, mainly and targeted, turns to the great wealth, the occupants and the highly profitable businesses. It is what we are sorry to see that many are offered to the few, but many need to be content with the few or the few. In fact, since the EUR 1 billion of anticipated tax revenues, around EUR 500 million corresponds to the reductions in corporate taxes, most of which have been earned by very large companies. Specifically, the reference that I have shown provides the real picture is the cases of the four hundred sixty-eight very large companies, which according to the 2017 AIA data - until then are available - which state a net profit of EUR 3 million or more. These very profitable businesses will therefore benefit from a reduction of EUR 120,000 per annum. Why at least do reinvestment conditions not arise so that the benefit they will gain from becoming a vehicle for generally demanded growth and increased investment? Unfortunately, for the whole of the taxpayers, the 'gifts', as I said before, are primarily directed to the occupants and, indicatively, it is worth mentioning: further reductions in the share dividends from 10% to 5%, a gift without a price. No provision for the synchronization or expansion of undertakings at a total cost of EUR 75 million, which will, however, be borne by the taxpayers. Establishing an income tax exemption and a solidarity contribution for interest on corporate bonds listed on a regulated market. A limited flat-rate tax of EUR 100,000 imposed, however, on all income from abroad, which exceeds 500,000 and are invested in the country. And this flat-rate tax payment by 50% refers only to legal persons. Another relief for shipping companies and companies with special property tax exemption in these offshore companies, which have established offices and similar facilities in Greece. Mrs Papanatsiou said so before. The figures are catalytic in comparing tax evasions in relation to income tax on employees and pensioners. This figure accounts for only 20% of all tax relief for all taxpayers, natural and legal persons. The benefit for the incomes of these layers and the middle class amounts to EUR 1 to 30 per month. But let us see if they really see an increase in their income available, because, after all, this is what will count on citizens' taxation rather than on increasing or reducing the percentage of the tax imposed on it. I would like to explain that the burden of these citizens and, above all, of the middle classes, namely the middle class, which, above all, you have come to dismiss, but we do not see it, will be very high, so that any improvement expected from tax relief can be balanced. The sectors that will adversely affect their incomes are known who they are. It is the increase of the EVA, HNPIA, PPC, the increase in the rate and, in a not insignificant percentage, the horizontal introduction of the cap 30% electronic payments, which particularly affects the low layers and for which it should have been escalating downwards. Insurance contributions with the reintroduction of the six classes - I explain, at a minimum, of EUR 35 per month or more, up to EUR 420 per year, all the free professionals and self-employed persons. ENVIRONMENT, which will increase by EUR 142 million in total, will largely draw additional burdens from the middle layers. PPC's growth is given, even though our government had rushed to lower the VAT rate to the minimum of 6%. It is expected that the rise in the Timarith, as was also assessed and said by the GSE representative at the hearing of the bodies in the committee. It is worth pointing out that the reactions and reproach which were being launched over the last four years, but also in the run-up to the high rate, 100%, of the advance payment of tax, but also of the burdenful measure of the solidarity levy - you said, ladies and gentlemen - were not accompanied by any positive measures, which would limit the loss of income, particularly of the middle class, your favorite otherwise. It was the government of SYRIZA that, since spring 2019, had announced the reduction of the tax advance to 50% and the deletion of the solidarity contribution to incomes of up to 20,000 euros. We have a response here to the reproach you give us on the claim that we have imposed some of the burdensome tax measures and we are not supposed to now accuse you of having failed to lift them. You are also very distrustful of our intention to improve them, saying that we have allegedly announced them as a pre-election and only provision. Our response, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, is what you deliberately forget, that whatever measures have been taken in the times of the memorandum, following tough negotiations and assessments, when you have forced us to accept the measures imposed by the troika bad - bad and bad - and bad - that is, our tactics, aiming at not being excessively affected by many, namely the small and medium-sized social strata, and avoiding the humanitarian crisis, we have taken firm and certainly taken steps, which have finally taken us out of the memoranda to ensure economic relaunching, to find what we are saying, but with a view to sustainable and fair development for the whole of society, which we have announced and proclaimed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u397	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u398	Mr President, I would like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u399	Just a minute, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u400	With regard to the abstractions of parliamentary representatives, how have you imagined them?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u401	However, not before all the other parliamentary representatives are finished. Mr. Giuleka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u402	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the tax bill on the wake of the NATO summit yesterday, which, once again, we had a serious development in Greek-Turkish. Today, indeed, this development has come about with the publication of the text of this famous Memorandum of Ankara - Tripoli, Turkey - Libya, with which Turkey violates the sovereign rights of other countries, sovereign rights of our country. I therefore think that we should send out a message from this step. Many people ask: 'What are all the allies doing?', 'What is NATO doing?'. The question is what Greece is doing. The message we must send is that Greece, as a factor of peace and stability in the region, sends the message in all directions that it wants this peace to be respected. On the other hand, however, it is absolutely determined to defend its sovereign rights vis-à-vis everyone. Of course, we must stress this because, many times, our fellow citizens ask us whether we are in a position to defend our rights. Of course, ladies and gentlemen. Greece has the power to defend its national sovereignty over anyone who would think and approve its sovereign rights. This power is derived from its worthy Armed Forces. I think that is a clear message that we should send, especially at this time. I now come to the bill under discussion. I listened to colleagues from various aspects, from Communism, from Opposition. If anyone hears from us outside, they'll watch a degree of opposing views. Members of Parliament are aware that it is a reform that moves in the right direction. The opposition, almost in their entirety, finds that all of this serves the possessors, the possessors, an economic elite that the government supposedly serves and is supposed to serve. Ladies and gentlemen, let me simply say that there is also the simple logic, which cannot be violated. Does the reduction in the tax rate from 28% to 24% relate to holders and holders? So all these small and medium-sized enterprises that will benefit from this measure are the economic elite in our country? Does our neighborhood shop have it for someone who belongs to the economic elite? Does the reduction in the tax rate to 9% for those who have an income of up to EUR 10,000 relate to the economic elite, to the owners and owners? Is the introduction of the low rate of tax of 10% for agricultural cooperative schemes related to farmers' elites? The increase in the tax rate of EUR 1,000 for every protected child, do you think, is about Latsis, Vardinoyannis and Bobola? The people who don't need an economic need? Or is it about all those people who are really affected by this unprecedented crisis, which is going through our homeland and, fortunately, is it in the last and comes out of this crisis? Does the exemption from the solidarity levy for people with disabilities, persons with disabilities, when over 80% of them are disabled, relate to persons with disabilities and possessors? Does the reduction in VAT on infants, for helmets, all relate to owners and holders? The increase in doses from twelve to twenty-four, in special circumstances, when no one has to pay, is this addressed to the economic elite? I have the impression that all of this, which is said, is said by duty, perhaps opposition, as some feel they should do. But I think the most important thing is that each one of us has the credibility at this stage. and what we are saying must not violate common sense. Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with a bill which is targeted at legislation. It is a bill aimed at low incomes. Of course, it is a bill which, at the same time, creates a friendly environment for investment. Don't we need it? Don't we need it? But the previous government four and a half years made a terrible leap from the left of its policy to how it will approach investment, how it will bring capital to the country, how it will create growth! In fact, until the precedent of our national economy was applauded for having done all this, as he himself said, to have results. So why is it bad when a bill takes care of and operates in that direction? In any case, we, without having any ideological problems, are really bringing together a bill that serves many. It confirms, Mr Secretary, what you say 'with many people'. All that I have said to you - they are just a few fragments of what the bill includes - they are certainly directed to our fellow citizens who belong to the economically weakest groups in Greek society. There are, of course, provisions which really create, as we have said, a friendly environment for investment. But we absolutely need it right now. I think that if anyone would have something to do with the government, it is true that he has brought quite a few things before the timetable, which he had originally set. As is the reduction of the ENPIA that has enjoyed too many of our fellow citizens this year, while we said that this would apply from next year, since 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not saying that with the Government of Mr Mitsotakis we can solve all the problems automatically. We have, however, launched specific legislative initiatives, which we are taking. Approximately thirty bills, if we calculate what comes next week, are completed, adopted, made state laws within the first four and a half months - five months of the country being governed by the new government, the Mitsotakis Government, the New Democracy Government, and that is why we are really proud. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We have a difficult road and we know these difficulties. But we are calling on you to take the initiatives, which I think at least we all agree that they help and are in the right direction, really to support us. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u403	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u404	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u405	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u406	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to submit to the House legislative additions - improvements. No other Ministerial Amendment will be tabled either by the Finance Minister or by other Ministries in this tax bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u407	Mr. Zachariadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u408	Because in the House we must also have a short memory, but of course we must also have a deep memory, it turns out to be very quickly how perfect the state that this government wanted to organise since the summer. Just a week ago, we were talking in Parliament and there was the issue of a scandal of hospital governors and the issue of Mr. Father. This week we have Mr Diagnossia's issue. Can I ask you something? Mr. Diagnostic why did he resign? After yesterday Maximus said the matter was over. Is something wrong? Is there anything else we don't know about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u409	He's changed hemisphere.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u410	He's changed hemisphere, actually. I look forward to Monday's coming, because I'm sure he'll be here. I am not a psychic, but I see the way in which you deal with it, I remember the way you have made your opposition, and I believe that a smaller or larger subject of this kind will come out every week, perhaps two. And as much as they don't raise these issues, people see and watch, because what happened last week with the hospital governors and what happened this week with Mr Diamia is the world's ability to communicate and social media to defeat the traditional media and this is a new reality about how public dialogue is conducted. The country came out a year ago of the historic revolt that your party put it in need of seriousness, responsibility, leadership and vision. Unfortunately, you have none of this. You only care about the deprivation of the state and the sale of the infrastructure. The country is facing major national challenges and, unfortunately, you are once again under the circumstances. What happened the other day with confidence-building measures? Greek sources were frustrating Greek sources at the time, which Turkey and Libya are hampering international law. Your days are happening! And unfortunately, the retreat of the multi-dimensional active foreign policy is bad for our country as well, but it is bad for our neighbourhood as well. It harms stability, security and peace in the wider region. I'll come to this bill now. Is there a weight relief? Of course there is. Where's he headed? Is he headed for the middlemen? No, he's not. This bill is primarily a bill that does not support the middle class. It proves even to the person who voted for New Democracy that the least he can do today is feel awkward. Where are those 1.2 billion people going? They go to poor people, they go to rich people, they go to middlemen? Who are the middlemen? Mr. Stavrous, just before, tried to reconstruct what he said last week. But even the definition that Mrs Bakoyannis gave us to take for the middle people, it is obvious that this bill gives far less of what the economy can give, which we have handed over. There is a pre-election deception of the New Democracy for the low and medium-sized layers and it becomes clear in the tax bill. The much-advertised tax reductions for the middle class are limited to a few euros a year. Even these are being cancelled, since additional charges are being incurred at the same time, increases in electricity prices, an additional tax of 22% for those who cannot collect 30% of the income in electronic transactions - extremely high, and that is why you are not taxing, that you are putting this burden - and of course, the upcoming increases, about 20%, for about 80% of the insured non-wages. At the same time, the announcement of a reduction in the tax rate to 50% does not mean that the solidarity levy for incomes of up to EUR 20,000 is not abolished or a number of other reductions, which our government has launched. So why are we talking about election fraud in the New Democracy over low and middle incomes? Because quite simply the big winners of this tax bill are the big super-profit businesses and the individual incomes of more than EUR 100,000 per annum, declaring them less than 1% of taxpayers. High incomes, nowhere the middle class and a few benefits. It is true that of the EUR 550 million which the government costs to reduce business tax, the EUR 450 million will be allocated to some six thousand businesses. This means that 80% of the relief will be given to 2% of enterprises. A feature of the reductions for employees, pensioners and farmers is the fact that this bill results in increases for taxable income of EUR 57 per year for anyone who has no children, EUR 40 for anyone who has a child, EUR 80 for a child, EUR 80 for the one who has two children. The government's choice to give many and few to many, but also its decision to refer to the bells the negotiation of a reduction in the surplus and not to use the guarantee account planned by the Tsipras government, so that it can achieve this reduction, does not allow the necessary reductions in the middle strata, which is so much needed. So, measures that could be implemented since 2020 - and were in our programme for them to be implemented from 2020 - do not apply and remain high in both the middle class and lower incomes. Who was that? It was the downfall of ENVY to 50%, the lowering of VAT from 11% to 13%, the cancellation of the solidarity levy to 20,000 euros and its declining from there and above, the lowering of the tax advance to 50%. So since New Democracy has abandoned what it said in the election about the destruction of the economy and the fourth Memorandum, having resurrected hints in the Prespecies Agreement and the refugee agreement, after writing in its old shoes excellence and merit, it today also abandons the middle layers of overtaxation, which it itself imposed within the years of the memorials and today does not make the necessary bold choices. One last word about the social dividend. In 2016, when we gave social dividends, you asked Mr. Shoeble to block the second evaluation and not to close the program. In 2017, when we gave a social dividend of 1,200 euros to three million seven hundred beneficiaries, you said they were crumbs. In 2017, when we gave three and a half million benefiting social dividends, you said again that they are crumbs. Now you celebrate that social dividend will be given to two hundred thousand rightholders and you are smiling and some specific media. People remember, see, they know and watch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u411	Thank you. Mr. Vitch has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u412	First of all, we have to do something with the list of speakers. I'm not saying it's anyone's fault. We need to do something, to come to an agreement. That's what I mean. It is characteristic that if anyone opened the TV to attend the conversation, after the first speaker of the Change Movement to see another speaker of the Change Movement it would take three and a half hours. If I don't catch the other parties, I'll talk about my party. After Mrs Rallia Christidou, one would expect Mr Xanthopoulou five hours and in the interim the fastest MEPs of the New Democracy. Something must be done so that there is also an interest in the person who wants to follow the debate. I don't mean the MPs. I think it is a question of consulting the Bureau and the parties. I have an opinion. Not to tell her now. The second thing I want to say is that the only sure thing about this life is death and taxes. That's what the Americans say. When we discuss the burning of the dead, I think we will discuss death, but today we are discussing taxes. What is the main issue of taxes or tax bills? The balance. So, you see the tax system and as a means of redistribution, or do you see it in the logic that I am going to reinforce some people and some people, and I'm going to hurt them? This tax bill is alleviated. We need to make that clear. The only thing he has is alleviations. It is very reasonable, because we have come out of the memoranda, we have created a financial area, and we can do so. Of course, the results will be seen next year. Isn't that right? If Mr Stakoras is here, we will see what happens, because if we look at the budget, but also at the tax bill, we see that where everything depends, 2.8% of growth is what it is. Otherwise, instead of a financial area, there will be a budgetary gap, and then we will be talking about measures. Before I move on to a number of issues, to make it clear that taxes are State revenues and alleviations or non-reliefs of natural and legal persons. Instead of starting with the revenues, I'll start with the expenses. I want to be very clean. Ladies and gentlemen of the "Greek Solution", lie consciously and unreservedly, of course, with some Members of the New Democracy who, before the elections, did so in the House, now do not do so within the House. But they do in their constituencies. I'm coming to explain. Every year, as a minimum, 400m euros come from the European Union budget and finance the programmes for the management of asylum seekers. Every year! These cover feeding, hospitality, housekeepers, port fuel beds, Armed Forces fuels, health, education, etc. These are done through the co-authorised Ministries and the UN High Commissioner for Immigration and the UN International Organisation for Migration. I wonder, and this is my basic problem: How much obedient nationals of the great interests may you be when you try to show that refugees are to blame for the sufferings of the Greeks, when you are trying to hide that the real shortages in the welfare state, the enormous social inequalities, have as a cause not the over-profits of capital, but the oppressed people? You finally want to put - if you can't understand - the poor to fight against the poor. You are all involved and confused - and many in their word - the refugee and immigration issue, which affects both refugees and immigrants and locals and is caused by geopolitical or social action by governments - and armies, of course - who really exploit the world, while refugees and immigrants are not such a thing. I want you to know we won't leave you alone. Every time we highlight the role you play, you and some of you. Because I have exceeded time - but I have spoken about a number of things - I want to talk about another matter. Reduction of corporate tax and dividends, reduction of the maximum rate of income tax on natural persons, reduction of company taxation on immovable property, reduction of taxation on portfolio investment companies, reduction, reduction, reduction, etc., Articles 24 to 28. Isn't that right or I'm wrong? We are making a proposal to you: to have a balanced reduction that favours small and medium-sized enterprises, but also to favour many social groups. And here two things I'm going to say, which are somewhat unrelated to each other: Minister, tell your Members and the entire House that the reduced VAT on the islands has been achieved by the SYRIZA government and will be reduced.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u413	After you raised him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u414	Are you laughing? Are you laughing? Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u415	Who took him out?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u416	Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u417	Who took him out?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u418	Minister, then you have the floor. Mr. Vitsa, please address the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u419	Excuse me, and you're addressing the Minister, who I don't understand why he's laughing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u420	I talked to the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u421	He laughs, but a few days ago he must have sent the report to the European Union - he, not Mr Stagioras - who says there is a refugee problem, so many thousands of refugees are and took the extension of the programme for 2020. He knows that! Secondly, let your Members know that if a small and medium-sized enterprise has more income, due to tax exemptions or reductions or a natural person, it can do two basic things: one is consumption, the other is microinvestments. When a company between six thousand - 2.5% of the company - has a much greater income, it can do four things: one is consumption of the bosses, the second is investment - I do not disagree - the third is treasure, that is to say, sending this money to various banks and the fourth is investment abroad. That's why in America they don't see hai, even though they're reducing taxes. Investments go elsewhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u422	Mr. Comrade, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u423	I'll be done in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u424	Just know you've reached ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u425	Do you understand why we are wondering why we are not doing more generous measures in advance of tax, not in depreciation, which leads to investments? In this way, we will have an extra step, an extra walk to what you have done and your flag: investment. That's what we're saying. Why would 525 million go there and not go elsewhere? Or to be used for SMEs, to have the solidarity levy, etc.Huh?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u426	Mr. Comrade, you've been over eleven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u427	I understand that. The world you deceive and continue to deceive in relation to them has understood the inequalities, no matter how much you are supported by pro-government media, which smuggle you from morning to night. Secondly, my dear friend from the JRC, do not feel good when the New Democracy and the Change Movement say you are a serious party. They think you're harmless. That's why.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u428	Mr Vice-President, we must show the good example. As you have seen, we've reached eleven minutes. We continue with Mr. Spaniard Vasilis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u429	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute. That means living dialogue, anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u430	You're welcome. The Greek Parliamentary Representative has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u431	Mr. Vitch called us liars. That we are lying, in fact, unreservedly. I would like to point out to you, Mr Vitsa, that the refugees you are talking about, the illegal immigrants for us, are not to blame for the sufferings of the Greek people. For the sufferings of the Greek people, it is your fault, Mr Vitsa, that for four and a half years you have thrown the country on the rocks and destroyed the Greek economy. It's your fault. And now you have destroyed the Greeks and you share, with your policy, which New Democracy continues, with illegal immigrants. Also, Mr Vitsa, let me tell you - since you told us liars - that the answer to a question we asked to the Minister of Government told us that 50% of the budget for the denial of illegal immigrants comes from the pockets of the Greeks. So you're the liar, Mr. Vitch. I'm returning the characterization. The Greek people pay. I wonder about that hate you have against the Greeks. The ones you have brought to this economic misfortune - not you - and not just you. The Greeks who leave their homes, who commit suicide, who leave home. Today, you are rushing to defend the poachers. It's awesome. Mr. Vitsa, I'll tell you the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u432	Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u433	I'm hanging up. I cannot and cannot accept suggestions and designations that we are liars, while you know that they come out of the state corpse of at least 50% of the money - that is true, tell the Greek people - of a man, Mr Vitsa, who you are politically exploiting. Five months ago, at a gathering with a thousand five hundred Pakistani people, you said you'd be doing the Greek election campaigns. Are you serious? A thousand five hundred Pakistani exposing you. That's where you've arrived.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u434	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u435	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u436	No, Mr. Vitsa, there's no staff. He didn't make you any personal characterization.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u437	Read the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u438	Please tell me where the staff is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u439	I'm telling you he corrupted my words.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u440	That's political. It's not personal. I, as president, say it's not personal, Mr. Vitsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u441	What does the Rules of Procedure say?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u442	I, as the Bureau, tell you that it is not personal. Respect my opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u443	It's not a matter of respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u444	You spoke 11 minutes. Please very much. Continue the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u445	Excuse me. You tell me your opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u446	Don't I, as President, have to decide?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u447	Sure. I ask the House to decide. Look at the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u448	Please, Mr. Vitsa. For an hour now, you've been creating a subject and I don't understand why.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u449	When the Member insists on the Rules of Procedure, he says...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u450	Mr. Vitsa, I haven't understood for an hour why you've been acting like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u451	I don't understand you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u452	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u453	Mr. Amyra, calm down. Will you guide us? Please, too. Mr. Vitsa, please very much. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u454	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to correct my fellow Member and former Minister. The abolition of reduced rates of VAT on the islands by 30% took place in the Government of SYRIZA. In the first group of islands, Mr. colleague, that is to say in the islands: Rhodes, Santorini, Mykonos, Naxos, Paros, Skiathos became 1-10-2015. In the second group, i.e. the islands: Syros, Thassos, Andros, Tinos, Karpathos, Milos, Skyros, Alonissos, Antiparos and Sifnos became 1-6-2016, again at the government of SYRIZA. And the third group of five islands still maintained today because of the migratory flows. You have abolished the reduced rates of VAT on the Aegean islands. Do you deny it? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u455	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that from the top Western theories they are attending our meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELEIGERIOS VENIZELOS", forty-three students and students and four teachers attending the Esperano General High School of St. We welcome you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u456	Mr. President, Mr. Hetas says I hate the Greeks. You think it's not personal. Mr. Besiropoulos is perverting my words. Can't I talk for a minute? If possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u457	Please very much, Mr. Vitsa. I don't understand you today, but I'm over it. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u458	It's okay. It's not a matter of mutual understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u459	Make your heart stone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u460	Mr. Polakis, we know you. You guys calm down. Let Mr. Vitch speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u461	Let's go again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u462	I'll be right there.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u463	I am talking, Mr President, about the five islands which have reception and identification centres. You know, as far as I know, that there was no different VAT on the islands was a Memorandumary obligation. Are we going to keep talking about this? I say we get out of the memorial laws you voted on, with the first memorials you brought in and go say. And you voted. You were, I think, a congressman. One is that. The second one is answering Mr. Heta. Not personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u464	I don't have any staff with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u465	Do you know how many times and how many people in the name of the love of the Greeks destroyed this country? What were you lying about? You lied - because that's all you remember - that I said that the people who are here from Pakistan - who remind you that they had come when Mr Velopoulos was in LAOS and collide - will take Greek citizenship. I've said that a hundred thousand times that I've never said. I have said "in your own face I do not see the damaged people, but you are trying to become doctors, to be lawyers, to be soccer players". It is more leapier to say "I don't want to get confused with these people. I don't want to breathe the same air."...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u466	That's your interpretation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u467	...from saying "We get money from the Greek budget" and I don't know who answered that to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u468	Mr. Panayotopoulos doesn't know what he's saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u469	Mr. Heta, please. You said that your argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u470	He doesn't know where he is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u471	Mr. Panayotopoulos doesn't know where he is?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u472	Mr. Vitsa, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u473	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u474	Mr. Panagiotopoulos answered!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u475	You said that your argument. You spoke a moment ago! Mr. Vitsa, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u476	Whatever Mr Panagiotopoulos says, will you consider it a Gospel?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u477	Am I getting it out of my head?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u478	Mr. Vitsa, do you think this is a process? Please, finish it. You took so much time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u479	I defend my opinion and my party.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u480	We're talking about facts here!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u481	Mr. Vitsa, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u482	Mr. Hetas says he's talking about facts. Excuse me, I'll say he's talking about false facts.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u483	Mr. Heta, please! Sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u484	Here I have the Minister's answer, to present it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u485	Mr Vassilis Spanakis has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u486	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are called on to discuss a bill which is part of the reform brought by the Mitsotakis Government. And I say part, because tax reform is a large part of the overall reform to be carried out by the Government of New Democracy. So it's the basis for building tomorrow's Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, it is good for a Parliament to vote for tax reductions. It is good for a Parliament to send a message to the Greek society that positive measures are coming. It is good for a Parliament to send out the message that it is legislating on our future. Of course, on this basis, any Opposition has only a bipolar nature and not a productive policy when it does not have good arguments. And that's our difference, gentlemen of SYRIZA. We are producing politics and you are now creating a pragmatic one. Through sixty-eight articles we give Greek citizens, taxpayers, natural persons and legal persons, to small, medium-sized and large enterprises, what has been deprived of by your own sloppy policy, demagogy policy, propaganda policy, and populism policy. You know, I could - and you know that - talk for many hours, for hours whole, especially on tax issues. But let me refer to Article 51 on redefinition, on the determination of the taxable value of immovable property. I would like to thank the Minister of Finance, Christos Stakouras, for accepting my proposal to the committee to draw up a recommendation for the formulation of the objective values and the coefficients of increase in starting prices and to participate as a representative of local government. I would also like to thank the Secretary-General, Mr Vésiropoulos. Local government must have a decisive role in shaping the objective values of property. I would like to express my pleasure, because the Minister said that we will also have an increase in the areas, which will bring social justice. May I invite you, SYRIZA gentlemen, to tell the truth in this Chamber, on what grounds do you, your left-wing government, have brought about an increase in the objective values in areas such as Kalithea, Keracini, Drapetsona and many other regions across the country? So I invite you to respond. Why did you raise them? In what process? This bill has another side, if you want, that we need to see differently. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, we must see it. We have talked about the unfair taxes that you have imposed. We can now easily talk about the taxes that we are reducing, we can talk starkly to the Greek people and tell him that we are making the beginning, we are putting the basis, we know we have an upbringing but we are not mocking. We are reducing the tax rates for taxation of incomes and incomes. In particular, Article 6 of the bill requires an amendment to the income tax code and we introduce an import rate of 9% instead of 22% for incomes up to 10,000. From the incomes 10,000 to 20,000 it remains 22%, but we will have the benefits from 9% that comes up to 10,000. We reduce from 29% to 28% for incomes from 20,000 to 30,000. We reduce from 37% to 36% for incomes from 30,000 to 40,000. We reduce from 45% to 44% for incomes from over 40,000. We reduce the taxable income of children, after increasing the tax on each child. We respect the family, we support the family in every way. We are suspending the obligation to pay VAT, so that the real estate market can also take place, but we are also suspending the value tax. We have already reduced ENPIA by 30% and by 22%. But I must say that we have also brought an increase in this bill. Minister, you have brought an increase. I don't know if you missed it. Minister, you must apologise to Census for this increase you are bringing. For in Article 43 we increase the instalments for the debts of 2019 from twelve to twenty-four and from twenty-four to forty-eight! You couldn't even do that! Didn't you have time to do that? And you know why? Because we see taxation as a means of bringing growth. We do not see tax policy as a means of exercising a micro-party policy, as you did. Of course, all of this is accompanied by the insurance reform that is on the boats and you will be surprised. Of course, tax reform must also be accompanied by the overall upgrading of our public administration, our tax services. Mr Alexiadis, you are well aware of this. You know that, on a personal basis too, I am striving in my turn to make specific targeted interventions to upgrade public administration and tax services. With a specific amendment I tabled - and I would ask the Minister to accept it - I call for the possibility of not submitting any amending declarations for retroactive remuneration from wages and pensions for a taxable amount of up to EUR 100. With this possibility, taxes will actually be dismantled and, above all, taxpayers who, for small amounts, ladies and gentlemen, are today forced to go to tax and to submit an amending statement, including among them, older people. Also, in the context of strengthening electronic transactions and combating tax evasion, since our policy is to support the family, with another amendment I tabled, I call for tax reductions for those who do medical expenses for in vitro fertilisation. I would ask the Minister to accept this amendment as well. I have also brought two other proposals to the committee, such as the reduction of the tax rate, which Mr Besiropoulos promised to consider in detail, for forest cooperatives at 10%, but also the extension of leasing to individuals, so that employees and civil servants can get a car and have certain benefits. Of course, tax evasion will be fought in this way. I told you before that this bill is a good basis. It reflects the intention to apply another tax policy, compared to the one you have implemented. I have listened very carefully to SYRIZA's colleagues invoking both GSEW, POMIDA and other important bodies, institutional and useful bodies. I ask them: have you now remembered? Did you hear them for so long, when you yourself ignored them and increased the objective values and tax rates, without ever having to invite them to the same table to discuss? I heard SYRIZA's dear colleague, Mr Alexiadis, saying that we were in contradiction. Who? We of the New Democracy. And I ask: is there a greater contradiction than the one you have made with the property owners, who have asked them to abolish the HISA, and have you done exactly the opposite? What's our contradiction? What do we do after-elections about what we have committed in the election process? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And so that we do not go far, today's article by Prokopi Hadjikolaou, commenting on the OECD report for 1965 to 2018 clearly says that in our country there is an increase in taxes of 6.7 percentage points of GDP. Our country took off the tax burden from 32% of GDP in 2010, to 38.7% of GDP in 2018, when the OECD average was 34.3% of GDP. But we have a difference. Because our current government will actually increase GDP and I do not say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u487	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u488	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u489	We've been over one minute, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u490	At least, I'm talking about the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u491	You'll get over Mr. Vitsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u492	Tolerance, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u493	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u494	ELSTAT says so, be careful on the official website with a press release. And I put it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u495	Mr. Vitsa can't get over him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u496	On December 5, where for the third quarter of 2019 we have an increase of 2.3% compared to the third quarter of 2018. Did this also be the result of your own policy, and we have not understood it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u497	Mr. Spankee, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u498	I'll be done. Our own policy is based on lowering taxes, increasing investment and, above all, increasing jobs. We have a political agenda and we are proud of our ideological starting point. Mr President, may I refer to a well-known song by Lucian Kiladonis, which he was saying, and I conclude: 'The new measures do not scare us, do we not scare capitalism' and do you know what is happening now, gentlemen? Are you in a historical ideological deadlock, because a central right-wing government is applying a serious reformist tax policy that you have not been able to achieve in the so-called left-wing four-and-a-half years? What are you going to say now to the retired and the hired man who in the cleansing of Genaris and February will see an increase...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u499	Mr. Spankee, if your speech doesn't end, what can we do? Are we gonna wait till it's over?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u500	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you. ...to its incomes due to the reduction of the rate from 22% to 9%? So it's time to do the suma. Come along and do the suma, see what we have to leave from last night and how we have to walk in the future. And the future says that Parliament's wings should vote in favour of this tax bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u501	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vitsats and Mr Spanakis have competed hard and achieved the same result. I think that doesn't honor anyone and it doesn't help anyone. Colleagues themselves need to see that they have to stay in time. It is an insult to my fellow Members to speak seven minutes and to speak eleven minutes. Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor now from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u502	Thank you, Mr President. I want to make a comment on excellence. It is very timely, so timely that it cannot be left out of business. After seeing a respectable man, because I have nothing, to negotiate a position with the Prime Minister and not to disprove him, I mean the candidate for a place at the Trikala Hospital, I think, after seeing excellence all over her greatness in Mr Diadiari's CV, after seeing the excellence of a man who had been confused with justice and who was destined to be with FEK, he had already appointed him in his office, and he was a graduate of Columbia, but he was a lie, since we saw an entire party costing behind Mr Maniadakis, who also he had lied about being an Oxford graduate, since we saw all that, a recital of what these people meant and how they meant it, I mean it, I mean that I cannot avoid being tempted to say the following. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Because I have heard from too many colleagues that we have raised taxation and reached God, I do not want to comment on it, but I cannot do so. I would therefore like to remind you again that the 10-year bond in 2012 reached 23.9 and was delivered to 1.8. And in honor you've downloaded it. 23.9 is the definition of a looted and bankrupt country. Unemployment has sometime reached 28%. That is an answer to those who say that we have exaggerated ourselves. Of course, it is not just the 320 billion that the country was charged and took. In his honor, Mr Stavros may be an opponent, but he is a decent man. Ask him about the 100 billion people and the 200 billion people who said, incredible things, it's about 4 billion in four years. That's what official public debt figures say. I would like to say the following: a few days ago Mr Latsis took 880 million, close to 1 billion, from banks that we know do not give money. We all know. Go get a loan of 5,000 and 10,000. You'll never get it. And he wonders how you make Mr. Latsis take 880 million days ago four or five days ago? Two foreign investors left. I'm talking about the Greek investment, because there's a lot of talk about it, because people here say they know the market out and out and out and in and out and that the investments are coming. They're also waiting to get money from mining. If you don't know that because it has to do with ELPEs, nine of the thirteen mining states from Corfu to the bottom, dangerous mission - not to remind you of what was going on in the Gulf of Mexico ten years ago when BP could not shut down the cliff and infected five states and the whole Gulf of Mexico - is waiting to get 5% to 8% to make the investment in the Greek. One of the prisoners, to land in reality. I'm coming to today. I want to remind you of this. Make a poll, accidentally, go down to Omonia, at Psyrri, where you want, and ask the Greek citizens if they know what a dividend is, that the tax on the dividend is reduced, that you are reducing it. Ask the world, 90%, what it will say 'we reduce the taxation of portfolio investment companies'. Ask. You won't get an answer. Nobody knows. It's none of their business. Ask what he's going to say about a reduction in fund taxation. You won't get an answer. Ask what, in order to come up with, a reduction in the taxation of corporate bonds holders. Why am I saying it? Mrs Papanatsiu said so too. I don't want to repeat it. Neither too much nor too much at the moment are you taking away your favours in providing tax incentives in the private sector, because some of the private sector is very healthy and we are all respecting it. And it comes after all this - time is short, I know, we do not have much time to talk about - after four decades of implementing this policy, the one you are now announcing, at international level, this policy that you are implementing - and I do not condemn it, nor do I - the OECD, the World Bank and the IMF and say that what you are doing is a brake on economic development. The rich are becoming richer and the poorer. I want to remind you of two figures confirmed by the global polling - any - science, with the first and best of OXFAM, eighty-four people again have assets as much as half the poor planet. This policy, which leads with mathematical accuracy to the poverty of the planet and its destruction. I want to remind you that Swartsman, a great investor, burns one fifth of the planet's lung, the Amazon forest. He's a man who finances Trump and Bolsonar. I would also like to say this: at the moment, the economic policy you are implementing, do not mock, is a policy for the very few. Indeed, the helmets will also be voted for and I will vote for everything you say, but it is ashes in the eyes. Because the large portion of the choices you make takes 1%, don't be fooled. They told you thirty times with arguments. That is the truth, with all due respect to the Minister, who is a reputable minister, but I disagree with him. I also want, in order to get together, and I do not have much time to say: I believe that investment means credibility. Nobody comes to give their money to a country that's not trustworthy. That is why I have told you the three examples of excellence and how many other three examples. At the same time as giving the $1,800,000 to Mr. Frouze - which you have all been accused of behind this trustworthy and respected citizen - 1,800,000,000 could not take it, now can he get it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u503	Mr. Papachristopoulos, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u504	I want a minute and I'll be done, Mr. President. At the same time as the Guardian will get 1,800,000,000 from the Swiss banks, the pensioners will get 192 million less. At the same time that the bankers of LEHMAN BROTHERS are rotting in prison, our bankers have no self-determination when they give a loan without a guarantee. They're imprisoned, so they're gonna have to nail themselves. At the same time that you are cutting off a sum of EUR 64 million from education, at the same time as insidiously, in Article 86, passive bribery of the past, you are going to eliminate it. But you can't do it and you didn't come here happy to say, yes, we're accepting...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u505	Mr. Papachristopoulos, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u506	I haven't taken much time, Mr. President, and you see I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u507	You're talking eight and a half minutes. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u508	Others spoke 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u509	One more minute and we'll be back in nine minutes. This is at the expense of other colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u510	I'm done. At the same time, you give written samples, passive bribery to legalize it. We don't care about the future. We're interested in the past. The country's in charge. Maybe some people are responsible. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying this. I have a book with me. It's written forty years ago. I read two paragraphs and I don't want to say anything else. Today markets lead the world community to constant crises. Inequality is growing. Unemployment is now threatening whole social strata, social cohesion is being threatened and world peace is being threatened with it. Politics has lost its potential to influence developments. Control has gone to the markets. These were written forty years ago. We warn you it's all about profit. This is precisely what will affect society when the market economy works out of control. It's your message. It refers to politics, which is a matter of principle, and is written by Uluf Palme. That is what I wanted to say and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u511	Mr Vecchi has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u512	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government, once again loyal to its election commitments, brings today a tax bill, which is targeted, realistic and is moving within the financial area created by this government. It comes after a period of bleeding in the middle class to restart the economy and reduce taxation on households and businesses. It is a draft law with a development dimension and an effort for social justice. A social justice, which was severely affected by SYRIZA's period of governance. There is the question: We have been discussing today since this morning and the question is, could you vote on this bill? Funny that sounds like it. You did not vote here on the hydrocarbons conventions, which we brought, without changing a single 'and one'. If we waited for you to pass this bill, we'd be naive. However, as much as you are trying to price arms to create impressions, it is supposedly affected by this bill, the small and medium-sized ones, it is impossible to achieve it. And you know why? Because you will be followed by facts, numbers and comparisons. Let's go quick and see your things. You imposed new taxes from 2015 to 2018 5.5 billion euros, while, before taking over the country's governance, you said that the taxes they imposed on the citizens are unfair. In more detail, the taxes burdened by the taxpayers were: overturning VAT with an increase in the rate of 24%, changes in income tax on the islands, an increase in the advance payment of tax, an increase in corporate tax, an increase in the rates of tax on insurance premiums, an increase in the tax on hotel and rentals, a reduction in the tax on medical expenses, an increase in cigarettes and tobacco, a tax on short-stay property, an income tax on company cars, a fee on payroll, a fee on fixed telephony and internet, an increase in beer tax, a reduction in excise duty on heating, an increase in excise duty on alcohol, a excise duty on wine, a excise duty on 1 euro per 10 ml of liquid electronic cigarette was imposed. The factors of the additional ENVA increased, the factors for the calculation of the ENVA on the plots increased, the additional ENVA for legal persons and went by by saying. It's not enough time for me to finish what taxes you've put in. This is all because you have resorted to an easy solution, to overtaxing everyone, but mostly employees and retired people. Mostly, you have taxed the poor and weak, as well as you have disappeared the middle class. With all this, are you entitled today to speak and criticize? It has been mentioned this morning by your rapporteur that you have done so at a difficult time. Yes, but you electioned everything to take authority. You deceived them, told them you'd save them, and you'd be close to extinguishing them. We electionally told them the truth and I think the people were mature to accept that truth. We're coming to this bill. Is there a measure in this bill, an article that increases taxation on something? If you are accusing us that our tax reliefs are not too great, we are telling you that in five months and in the financial area, which we have created, we are taking the first step to relieve the weaker ones. We are also reducing business tax, so that investment can come to our country after a period of disinvestment, which your ideas have brought about. It is certain that by reducing the primary surpluses that we will achieve with our prudent and reform policy, there will be a greater financial space for further reductions in taxes and increased benefits. It is certain that this will be possible, since climate and psychology have changed. We see that on a upward path the economic climate index has come back, it has recorded a high decade, while that consumer confidence of a high 20-year period. The processing was closed in November by a three-month record. In this period there is a strengthening of individual sectors of the economy, a reorganization of the building industry, a stabilization of tourism at high levels and a continuation of the good export performance of certain sectors. So, in this climate and with these possibilities, the new tax bill achieves a significant reduction in households and businesses. Indicatively and concisely I mention the drastic reduction in the import tax rate for incomes of up to EUR 10,000 from 22% to 9%, which is escalating and affects all categories. We have a 1,000-euro tax increase for every child. As we have said, we will have 13% VAT from 24% on infants and helmets. Reduction of business tax from 28% to 24%, which will apply from 2019, with a view to going to 20%. We will have 10% low tax rate for agricultural cooperative schemes. Reduction the income tax advance to 95%. And here we are critical of you, but don't forget that you took it from 55% to get it to 100%. Now we're going down slowly and firmly. New debt arrangements for those who did not regulate until 1 November 2019. Supporting the building activity with a number of positive initiatives aimed at giving greater value to properties and moving a market that significantly affects the entire Greek economy. There are too many other measures, which, for the time economy, I will not mention, since they have been analysed by other speakers on our side and by our rapporteur. You are accusing us that this bill is geared to attracting investment. The answer is simple. Yes, it is. And it is because only if the country's huge investment gap is covered, will the conditions allow the government to introduce new tax reductions, which is the government's intention, as I said before. That's what the basic principles of economic theory say. With the new bill business action is no longer being treated horrificly or ideologically, as has been the case so far, but as a core, as a headline, for the country to re-enter the development and creation of quality jobs. Finally, I would like to tell you that you need to be sure that our Greek people trust us. He trusts us, because we are practically implementing what we told him by election. Election we looked the Greeks in the face and told them what we can do. And we do do more than we promised for the first hundred and fifty days of governance, unlike you who promised them the rabbits with rocks and eventually impoverished them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u513	The next speaker is Mr Ahmet Ilhan from the Change Movement. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u514	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to start my rhetoric and develop my argument about the tax bill, make use of my right. This morning we heard the President of the Greek Solution, Mr Velopoulos, who brutally offended Muslims. As one of the three Muslim MPs, who have the honour of serving in the Greek Parliament, I would like to exercise the right to reply to this first and then enter the tax office. Ladies and gentlemen, we have become spectators of an unprecedented spectacle today. Mr. Velopoulos had the courage to insult all Muslims and generally all Islam. I will only mention some of his words from the Minutes of the House. Asks "Can Islam be assimilated?" And then he says "it's not religion, it's multi-religious ideology", that is, it questions one of mankind's greatest religions, Islam, and it says it's not religion. Do we understand what that means, Mr. Velopoulos? You understand, when you say it's not a religion, what does that mean? And I say it's not religion, Orthodoxy, it's not religion, Catholicism, etc. Where's this case going? He says: "How do we assimilate a different system in Greece? Islam is incompatible with legal culture." And it goes on and on and on and on and on. "Don't you know what Islam, gentlemen, says about homosexuals? You close your eyes, don't you know? They're killing them." Mr Velopoulos, as in all religions there are doctrines, sects, religious organizations, so in Islam there may be some heresy to defend this. But that's not Islam, it's not the Sacred Book, and you don't have the right from the Step of the House to slander, exult and say that Islam is not religion. I would like to say - and I close my answer - this. You talked about assimilation. Have you confused them and we need to talk about integration? What's assimilation, Mr. Velopoulou? Assimilation is intended to integrate Muslims into the national community, while we are defending integration, which is part of the political community. But what does assimilation require? To assimilate a religion, a diversity, to introduce them into the national community, in other words not to say that they are Muslims, to have nothing different. In fact, it is quite a fascist or other attitude. You're talking about clear assimilation. You haven't excluded anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u515	No, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u516	The President has not only mentioned some Islamists who have another view, but have referred to all of Islam and said what he said. All of this is recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u517	The fanatical Islam we said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u518	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u519	I should like to state this and I should like to say this. I am proud, as the hundred and twenty thousand of the Muslim minority living in Thrace are proud. They are proud people who live in Greece and are Muslims, as I am, proud that I have been serving the Greek Constitution for three years. I am proud to be in this House and 15 days ago, here, I defended religious freedom. In fact, my party had the courage to propose something that the majority did not accept. [[Applause]] I shall proceed, Mr President, in my speech. The times are suspicious, and we need to know what we're talking about in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's tax reform bill we are debating today has the following basic features. Firstly, it is a commitment to the high surpluses signed by Tsipras and is maintained by the current government. How much was the surpluses? It was 7 billion. And what did you give today? Pseudomonas 170 million as a social dividend, as did the previous government, had given crumbs. Overrun of 7 billion, bleeding overtax and finally gave today only 170 million crustaceans to these people. Secondly, it exacerbates the injustice for the many relationships between indirect and direct taxes. Thirdly, it maintains the overtaxation and barriers imposed by SYRIZA on the production of new incomes. Fourthly, it does not include incentives to create new jobs and to promote investment in modern technology that will respond to the challenges of the Second industrial revolution. A fair distribution of tax burdens is a prerequisite for building a rule of law. The previous government with the tax raid against the middle-class, which you aspire to defend, has made sure that it will seriously harm the most important pillar of the Greek economy, which is the small and medium-sized enterprise, leading to the unemployment of thousands of self-employed in many sectors of the free economy. Know that only in the Rhodope Prefecture, for example, unemployment is now around 17%, but it is, in fact, much higher, as our thousands of fellow citizens, especially the minority, are not recorded in these indicators, which take the place of the hostel. As coming from an area especially rural and livestock, such as Thrace, but also with huge problems of the survival of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, I would like to place particular emphasis on the proposals and amendment of the Change Movement that we have tabled today to you, Minister. More specifically, we suggest that you adopt our proposal, which is very simple. Firstly, we say about a rate of taxation of 9% of the profits of an individual agricultural undertaking with a taxable income of up to EUR 10,000 and 13% about excess taxable income, because the tax relief we have in the bill under discussion concerns only 6% of farmers. Only 6% of farmers can ultimately benefit from this famous today's tax bill. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Do you, of course, bring a positive tax provision with a rate of 10% of the profits of agricultural cooperatives and producer groups, but what incentive do you give the farmer to deliver his products to collective organisations? None. That is why the Change Movement has proposed a 35% discount on the farmer's revenues, based on the value of the products it delivers to the cooperative. It matters what we deliver there. That's the motive. We also propose, with a view to substantially strengthening primary production, introducing the duty-free rate of aid to the common agricultural policy, as well as to agricultural compensation. For farmers under the special VAT system, Article 41, which deliver their agricultural products and are members, we propose that 5% should be refunded. Finally, you will have to finalise and irrevocably exempt the agricultural parcels from the supplementary ENPY because, under the existing legislation, the applicable exemption does not apply to the calculation of the 2019 ENPY.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u520	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u521	I shall conclude, Mr President. It would be expected by the government to provide for special tax arrangements to ensure the competitiveness of products produced in the primary sector and processing and to shrink the gap with the big markets in the centre. But there's indifference. For example, the idea of creating a transport equivalent for the products and businesses of Thrace and the regions that are poor could be discussed in the standards of the island regions of Greece. Do not forget the job subsidy either. Unfortunately, the bill under discussion does not bring about the much-needed tax reform for our country. It is a disgusting, without vision and, above all, without any developmental dimension. It's a waste of opportunity, and it's a shame, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u522	Mr Hatzigiannakis Miltiadis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u523	Mr President, one minute's reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u524	What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u525	Let me answer something.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u526	What are you going to answer to and who?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u527	To what they heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u528	But I'm sorry. That's not gonna happen. Excuse me very much, what do you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u529	Mr President, these are inaccurate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u530	Will any parliamentary representative from any parliamentary group be given the floor to answer a Member who expressed an opinion on a matter? Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u531	I have the right to reply, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u532	Mr. Hatzigiannakis, come to Stepma. I called Mr. Hatzyannakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u533	Mr President, I have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u534	I do not deprive you of your right, but this right also has certain criteria and limits, and Parliament cannot always speak. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u535	But he addressed us, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u536	Mr. Hatzyannakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u537	Thank you, Mr President. This morning, as soon as the debate has been opened, I heard the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Amyras, closing the suggestion of the shocking bill, which we are debating today, in the words that this bill is to drink it in the glass.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u538	Cheers!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u539	So I looked, too, because I like to hear and watch, to find a glass of good, crystal glass. So as soon as I have found it, and I say, 'Let's drink it and we in our health', the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament fell. I was terrified. He fell down. It broke. I say 'So crystal draft law has so many anti-constitutional provisions that it has so many mistakes'. I say 'can't, there's going to be a mistake'. So I also started to read - as the Scientific Service of Parliament says - to see really whether this tax bill serves who is serving and whether it serves the general view that the New Democracy has that growth is coming for everyone. In addition to page 9 of this House's Scientific Service states that the abolition of the tax-free amount of income or the introduction of a tax-free amount below the minimum standard of living creates concerns - all right, we have answered that - we are moving on to Article 7. And because time is not enough, I will not read to you all the remarks he has made. I'll just read the conclusion. ‘In the light of the foregoing, it is noted that the explanatory memorandum accompanying the draft law does not provide sufficient justification for how, in transactions for which the tax documents concerned have been issued by using electronic means, their repayment serves better to reduce tax evasion and to widen the tax base. In that regard, it is not sufficient to justify that the method of repayment of a transaction constitutes an incentive for the private taxpayer to request the issue of the anticipated tax document.’ I don't go on because it's big. He says too much anyway. What he is trying to point out, however, in accordance with European legislation, which he says is that any restrictions placed on these provisions are conditional on being tolerated, but they should be carefully weighted against the expected benefits. This is what the European Commission says and is reproducing it. It's not a discovery of SYRIZA or of the other parties. This is in no way achieved by 30%, which is absolutely burdensome for the lower income layers. They're totally burdensome. A family of which, shortly before the Minister said, is 52% of taxpayers have a family income of up to 17,000 euros. That is the evidence provided by the Minister. If he has one rent and another rent of his child studying as a protected member in another city, he will simply never cover 30% of the remaining one. He can't afford 12,000. You can do the deeds. It's very simple. So what do we say to this family? We're sorry. You're lost. You will be taxed with 22%, not with the low tax...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u540	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u541	Fine. Okay. After we read them. We do not know whether they are now being implemented differently from the tax authorities. We have worked with tax authorities many times since our profession. That's not usually the case. They take the letter of the law and apply it in the worst way, for the taxpayer, of course. These taxpayers - know this - will be taxed with 22%. But how much you care. Apart from this point of view, there is also the point about the concept of corporate responsibility. I do not put the verbatims, if it is right, if they are in accordance with European law and the European Commission. Let's get to the bottom of it. A prerequisite for companies to fulfil their responsibility for the impact on society, says the Scientific Agency, is to respect existing legislation and collective agreements between the social partners. That's too bad, though. One of the two conditions for the concept of social responsibility has been abolished by a previous government law. So social responsibility, which you are saying you have introduced, is actually about tax relief for very large companies and how to avoid taxation. It is therefore a presumption that it has no meaning of social responsibility, since one of the two pillars, which is one of the basic values of European law, cannot on your own responsibility, by abolishing collective agreements. We also go to Article 34 on the responsibility of the law-makers. In this case, too, the mutual responsibility of the governors is limited, contrary to what has been the case so far, not with our own laws, not with our own tax, but with all the tax arrangements that applied from behind. And I ask the Minister: have you studied who is concerned, how many are it about, and what amounts, which have been established in public, will they be deleted once and for all by this provision? The Greek citizen also needs to know and know who will get away with it, who will be concerned and how much money the Greek public will lose from this provision. Because it's a given he's going to lose. In particular, for the merged companies which, in my view, will be a whole school on how to merge companies so that the successors do not have any responsibility. Closed up, I want to show you something. In all the positions of the ruling majority, there is talk of alleviating and combating tax evasion. But it is now clear that tax reliefs are discriminatory in favour of higher income layers. The fight against tax evasion is a story in Halima. I'd like to close a little more specifically. Last week - and this shows how you understand the fight against tax evasion - it has gone to an unrelated bill of amendment that millions have been given - and I mean in the bill on mediation with a last-minute amendment - according to reports, which have been released, a gift order to the mortgages, who, while being persecuted, had been prosecuted by the Ice Authority for embezzlection of huge sums of money, gone as a taxpayer, but only for registered uses. It's the 1990s, the 2000s and over a decade. So coal is the treasure. And that shows exactly how you mean the persecution and the fight against tax evasion. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u542	Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u543	Thank you, Mr President. Evidently, it reduces the government tax bill, with the logic of a party of extreme neoliberalism, which serves inequality as eternal unmoved during Mr Mitsotakis. It reduces mainly the 10% of Greeks belonging to the rich layers, which have the very large businesses, the very great profitability, the very high incomes, the very large real estate. It reduces four hundred sixty-eight companies with profits greater than 3 million. It reduces the tax on persons with very high incomes of foreign origin who become tax residents of Greece. It reduces dividend taxation, the taxation of companies investing in real estate, the taxation of portfolio investment companies, real estate funds, the taxation of corporate bonds holders. He's got a class badge. Mr Stakoras is not here to answer a report that always states that economic policy is for everyone. The parties are not with everyone and everything. The parties have class references. They have a policy that has a class mark. Let me remind you that Laskaris had the illusion that he would abolish the struggle of classes, the conflicts between capital and work. But that was delusional. You, with the tax bill, are continuing an economic policy, which has already abolished the nominal shares for the media owners, you have subsidised the press distribution agencies, the gold mining. Your first amendment made it easier for entrepreneurs not to warn of redundancies. You have already increased the objective values for the payment of HISPIA by 140 million. Change the penal codes to benefit persecuted for black money or sea-loving bankers. You have undermined the freedom of collective bargaining. You increased PPC's tariffs. Remove the reduction to 10% for participation in the medicines of those who lost the NSA and do nothing to support the National Health System. Reductions are insignificant in the middle class, in professionals, scientists, in poor layers, in farmers, in 90% of Greeks. Here, too, we need to identify the middle class. All over the world, the middle class is between the poor layers and the elite. Are you doing a new wisdom? Did you find anything else in the middle class that's different? Even Mrs Bakoyannis felt the need to conflict with Mr Stakoura's understanding of middle-class limits. The minimum increases it gives to the lower layers could be greater if you did some others, which would enable you. You could, for example, use the budget space that would result from a reduction in primary surpluses. But look at what you're saying. You say you need credibility so that you can do it. It is a confession that recognizes that this weakness for a party that has voted 4.5% primary surpluses by 2018...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u544	But with what growth?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u545	But with growth, which is to be proved. The tax draft law extends inequality to the new era, after the end of the memoranda of internal devaluation programmes, when the central issue is how the layers which have suffered the heavy burdens of the Memorandum commitment to the lenders of the country will be reduced. He ignores proposals, such as GFCM for an unreasonable business account, for special care to collect evidence to professionals with a freezing of accounts, introduce duty free for professional activity, extend the low rate of taxation regulation. He ignores the RESEMA proposals on a number of issues he has put us in. And he insists that Mr Stavros call this draft'social justice' bill. Take a look, colleagues. We did not name our economic policy, social justice policy. Because, it had a social bias to deal with the humanitarian crisis, it was in favour of social exclusion groups, the poor, the unemployed, the homeless, the children, the non-preferential, but it was not social justice policy. We are well aware that, in a highly indebted country of capitalist united Europe, which is dominated by the impregnable budgetary discipline pact, there can be social justice, only measures for the class-based partitioning of governments towards the layers they support. And you have a class split in favor of elite. I would like to close with a number of issues which concern the amendment that we have tabled. I think, however, that Paul Paulakis - I think he will succeed me - will make a reference. I want to answer what you said you bring 6% Added Value Tax to medicines. Look at that. You only bring him to immune drugs, cancer, myasthenia, diabetes mellitus, rheumatoid arthritis. All the other drugs were at 6%. I think this bill is an economic record that earlyly says a Christmas fairy tale, identical to what you have said about an executive state, about excellence, about merit. And no one believes you anymore, because it has proof that it does not exist in your political system or in a state of perfection, but in a blue state. I hope, however, that the expectations of returning the profits of the European Central Bank from Greek bonds will be appreciated and that it will be more essential for our European partners to support the refugee and the critical problems we have with the provocative Turkish aggression. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u546	Mr Paul Paulakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u547	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Besiropoulos, this morning I watched you and it seems that you have given a line, probably you have released no paper, because I have heard my old competitor from medicine, Sakis Akuppi, repeating the same speech - to read us the taxes that we have put in. And you, meracles, why don't you take those taxes off them?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u548	We'll get them out.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u549	We took the wine tax out of the twenty-nine you read.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u550	The S.T.E. He took him out.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u551	These taxes, which you had eaten the world that we intercepted the middle class, the poor people, the weak, and so on, why didn't you take them away from them? Reading the tax bill, I remembered an old Cretan proverb: "It disguises the mountain and gave birth to a mouse." It is the old "saving mountain and it has poured out a muscle". All you do with the tax bill is give the very rich 600 million. That's what you're doing. You're redistributing this. What hirer, who retired, who is a small freelance professional - and is still waiting for the insurance that Brutsi is preparing for - will he see tax relief? Who? Those who are over 60, 70, 80 thousand will see. The little ones, why do you come out here and say you support the weak, where will they see it? With a microscope to look, you can't find it. The two euros, 20 euros a month or year? Is that the relief? And in the businesses themselves, what you do is in a certain way. These 600 million are from the profits. You have also put in a number of other provisions that you say: Reduction of corporate tax which invest in real estate. Reduction of taxation of portfolio investment firms. Reduction of corporate taxation that invest in real estate funds. Reinforce all the airtight and solaxadors, who have now come along, for example in Exarchia - because this is behind all this "law and order" - or other Athens areas and buy real estates behind each other, to musk them after you clean them up from the anarchists and the illegal and terrorists. They're the ones you're taking and strengthening. They're the ones you're taxing. You're running deal. That's what you're doing. You don't do anything else. If you want investment to grow, why do you not increase the depreciation rate? Why don't you abolish the solidarity levy on incomes of up to EUR 20 000 and up there progressively go and alleviate the middle-class, as you say, and give an incentive for investment, recruitment or anything like that? It's another bubble your tax bill. I want to turn your knife on you. Because we've heard a lot. And because everything's getting paid here and everything's gonna get you out of here, I don't know if you've taken it away, because I've been gone a few hours, have you seen how much social dividend the people's government will share this year? Have you gotten it? They gave it the amendment. He'll give 175 million euros. Mr. Amyras, if last year's 710 were crumbs and charm, what's 175?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u552	It's extra.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u553	Well, last year you had eaten the world that Tsipras was sharing charity. You'll now give 175, obviously very few. Unless you give one or two euros to each one to catch the last year. With us the beneficiaries were about three million four hundred thousand people, and this year, if the reports say about two hundred thousand households, they will go to seven hundred or eight hundred thousand to share the 175 million. Sit down and say you can't give dividends because SYRIZA ate them with what he gave the previous time. So, uh, tell us, boys, what we did, where do you disagree? And I'll tell you what, 600 or 700. But here seems to be the class you're serving. Aren't you telling me, with the VAT reduction in the focus we did this year, after we got out of the memos, you disagree? By reducing VAT on food you disagree? By reducing VAT on energy you disagree? That's what we did. That's where we ate the money. With the thirteenth pension we gave Easter, do you disagree? You probably disagree, because next year, Brutsi wants to cut her off, and the pensioners are crying since they'd believe you. Well, this is what you say it's because you can't give more now. First of all, the revenues at the end of the year are more, you know, because business pays, they do, they show, and the State collects taxes. You have implemented our budget this year and this year's surplus comes out. You also give the IPTO 200, which you have removed from the surplus, and you leave 175 million. That's where the ball sat. Aren't you telling me why you brought business tax reductions from 29% to 25%, to 19%? Who benefit from this? If you didn't do that since 2019, the dividend could be much larger than what you're giving now. But you have chosen classics who will serve with this bill. We are now going to two other things that I want to say, because it is also an amendment that I want to support. You know, one bubble digs behind the other. One is tax, another is immigration, Matty, the Macedonian. I will not say about Turkey. We'll tell tomorrow in the emigrant bill. We'll have a chance to say a few things there at the other meeting. I mean, with this excellence, guys, I can't help myself. What were you telling us? That you are the perfect, educated, with your Londons, with your Gallus, with the masters and the doctorates. And there have been a couple of forty of those who you put in hospitals and with this undetermined Diamantaris, say, who had to change hemisphere to resign and after Petsas said there's no problem. But he probably didn't have a high school certificate at the end of the day or because some things came out with his business you said he'd resign. That was your excellence. You have appointed one with a degree in music in the NDP until what exists and does not exist until the eighth year old. And it's not his age problem. The problem is that he went to Mitsotakis and said: "I have a thousand two hundred crosses and I want Trikala or Carditsa" and the ball sat in Carditsa. And it's not him. There's more of them. One will come out every day of the ones you've appointed. Well, we tabled an amendment to four SYRIZA Members, I, Andreas Xanthos, Michaelides and Sakis Papadopoulos, on the subject: Individual workers' contracts in the Ministry of Health. It is a long and well-known story that we fought and managed and expelled from eighty hospitals to contractors, who "drink the blood" of the people and hospitals, exorbiting the services and paying the workers in a degraded way. Despite the fact that the S.H.E. gave us the S.E., we legislated and relegated and passed it, and even went to the European Court of Justice and we were entitled to annul and suspend the suspension that the S.E. had taken place. after appealing to all of this circuit. Because this whole thing was 300 million euros a year. From this we made a savings of 20% to 30% in each hospital, with the individual contracts of workers we got paid 200 and 300 euros in the pocket above. Now you're taking it for a lot of people. While we were talking about two years' contracts, Kontozamanis had an amendment and said for twelve months. You left it while you had the first day you took the opportunity to open the competitions. You knew there was a setup, because we hadn't calculated the parole in the S.H.I.E.L.D. and you said until 31-12-2019 the competitive procedures had been completed. But five months now, with the exception of three - four contracted hospitals, you do not let the administrations proceed to new competitions. We are now saying that we are giving an extension to the completion of the competitive process until 31/12-2020. We are calling for a change in moleculosis in order to strengthen those who work. Be careful, and for cleanliness these people must receive an education, because they are involved in intensive treatment units, and they are involved in illness. They must take specific protective measures. We want to reward the experience of those who work, because that is how we kept most of the workers working for private contractors who then continued with individual contracts. Because it wasn't our problem, "Go away. Come on, you." And we are able with the third paragraph, if they want the hospitals, to withdraw the previous notice and take it out on these terms. We believe that if you accept this amendment - I have informed Mr Kikilia - there will continue to be the status of individual contracts that is better for both workers and for public money. And they will be able to complete these contracts, because otherwise the contracts will be terminated, they will not be able to open the tenders, and then we will have to go back to the contractor with all the deal that is then done and the parallel benefits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u554	Mr. Pulas Andreas has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u555	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek society has been undemocraticly awaiting the tax bill that is being discussed today. After a hard four years of tax suffocation imposed by SYRIZA, with the middle class lifting a financial burden, citizens had the hope that your first tax bill would show the way to reversal, a reversal promised by the Prime Minister beforehand, and that is why it enjoyed the great confidence of the middle class. Once again, hopes proved to be fruits. Instead of a bill that would mean a new tax concept, instead of a fair and long-term tax bill, we once again have an unfinished effort. This is a rapid, unconscious and fragmented attempt to correct an unfair tax policy imposed mainly at the expense of the middle-class by the SYRIZA Government on purely class criteria. This policy was supposedly implemented to protect the poorest layers. But who were the poorest? Who defined them on what criteria? While the whole society has been violently and massively impoverished by the more than doubled direct and indirect taxes and the launching of the cost of life, who could surely tell the Greek citizen that the tax measures taken were fairly distributed? The unjust and unjust tax measures that SYRIZA unilaterally took to the detriment of the most productive part of Greek society, paid for in the elections. But this does not give your own government a day of grace. Once again, you do not have the courage to do the necessary and necessary tax reform that the country needs to free up its economic potential and return rapidly to long-term growth and, above all, there is no clear picture of the economic and fiscal model you want to implement in our country for the coming years. What purposes do you have and what is your development model? You still haven't found out? In fact, some of the measures in your bill are not even linked to investments, to the creation of new jobs, to the increase in exports or even to technological reconstruction and modernisation of the country's businesses. As we have repeatedly stressed, no tax reform is possible as long as our country is bound to the float of overcrowding. This is reflected in the 2020 budget where, despite the small tax relief you are making and the restoration of certain injustices, taxes on goods and services are increased by EUR 979 million and the taxes on natural persons by EUR 264 million. It goes without saying that no tax can restore the loss of the middle-class revenue and lead the country to growth if it is not accompanied by a firm policy towards the banks, which seems to be the only ones who have not received the message of a return to normality. They continue to charge unreasonable and high charges in banking transactions and not to finance the market for ten years. I expect to see your legislative initiatives in this direction too. Of course, along with tax evasions with the drop-off, you are establishing a favourable status to senior business executives who enjoy additional cash benefits and kinds and are not exposed to either occupational insecurity or poverty. But neither for farmers can you afford better treatment. The positive provision for taxation at a rate of 10% of the profits of its agricultural cooperatives and producer groups is not enough. Where is your long-awaited legislative initiative on agricultural cooperatives? Where are the incentives for the delivery of their products to collective organisations? What is your policy to strengthen farmers and collective schemes that could be a shield in the highly competitive European environment? The Greek economy, which was on glaciers, can be heated with specific initiatives proposed by the Change Movement, such as linking the increase in wage costs with tax incentives, horizontal, gradual abolition of the solidarity and trade fee, permanent measures to revive construction activity, reduce the VAT rate for all free professionals and businesses, tax exemption for young people who open up their own business, tax incentives for farmers who deliver their products to cooperatives and producer organisations, establish a rate of 9% for farmers' incomes of up to EUR 10,000 and 13% for over-tax income, abolish the ENPY for parcels, incentives for employee participation in the profits of large companies through the distribution of shares, establish an inconsistent business account. Ladies and gentlemen, it was the PASOK which supported and expressed the concerns of the middle class. Some even today charge PASOK this very political choice, namely the creation of a strong and dynamic middle class that was the backbone of the Greek economy and the rapid rise in living standards. Today the Change Movement acts and aims at the prosperity and progress of the country. We are firmly opposed to maintaining tax injustice, by extending income inequalities, by maintaining the unjust and excessive burdens of the middle-class, young and farmers. The search for foreign investors and capital will not replace the dynamism of domestic production factors. The responsibility is to give Greek taxpayers and businesses the room to breathe through an environment of stability and tax justice, where many will pay little and fair and not vice versa, without fear of the inability to achieve unfair and punishable surpluses. Unfortunately, in this direction your results are poor. That is why we are going to vote against this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u556	Mr Avramakis Eleftherios will be given the floor by SYRIZA, followed by the Parliamentary Representative of MARA25.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u557	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the news, I cannot go into the temptation and comment on one thing that the government gets excellent and on one thing we can tell her she has a doctorate. That's the doctorate of deception and lie! But you should be aware that the people do not forget what you were saying and what you did on the day following the elections to the Prespecies Agreement, on the refugee, on the final state and on the service of the public administration with the excellent people, as you are doing today, in terms of the distribution of the dividend and the amount you give, to whom and how many you give it, and what the SYRIZA Government has given us. Comparisons are catalytic and you will see them along the way, as to how they will be evaluated by society. Within a gruesome political reality, where the government is taking numerous and unwitting blows from the normality of its choices, on a day when we have the triumph of excellence by resignation or dismissal - as you would like to call the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Diamanti, on a day when the government's amateur and dangerous manipulations in Greek-Turkish, which jeopardise the sovereign rights of the country, are at stake, we are called upon to discuss the new tax bill, which the new government is bringing us to the vote. The lie, it's said, has short feet. The Government of New Democracy now demonstrates every day the wisdom of the people's proverbs. The return of normality is becoming more and more understandable in more and more. The frustration caused by the government to the Greek people, the denial of all the expectations it has created and, above all, its inability to maintain even the level of stability achieved by the SYRIZA government, creates an environment extremely dangerous not only for social peace but also for our foreign policy. Developments with Turkey, which has significantly increased its provocative actions, aggressive policy, leave no room for either public relations and photographs or friendly talk and theories of aggression now Erdogan. Greece now needs a more active foreign policy than ever. It needs the activation of all available allies. It needs interventions to make it clear first and foremost that Greece's borders, Greece's sovereign territorial and maritime rights, as they come from and are founded on international law, are borders of Europe as well. Erdogan needs to understand immediately, he must feel directly that he does not have Greece, but the European Union and the European Union are not only set up to make it easier for Germans to sell their cars and everything else that produces by imposing facilities and incentives, such as those provided in the bill on catalytic cars under discussion. Europe has decided, thanks to the efforts of Greece and Cyprus, to a set of sanctions against Turkey. They must be activated immediately. It doesn't matter if it was the SYRIZA government who did it. It was a success of Greece and you need to make use of them. The risk is much greater than any party ego. There are many points on which we can compare, disagree and argue with the Greek people about the differences that characterize us. The redundancies, for example, at Piraeus Bank are a tangible indication of the major differences that cross the political system. You're enjoying immunity from bankers. You have accepted the irrational charges imposed on transactions and with today's bill you are challenging bank profits further and that is what starts team redundancies. Employee redundancies have begun and increased rapidly, as have changes in labour relations, wages and labour rights. The redundancies in Piraeus are right now being heard why OTOE keeps the issue high and reacts. But the normality of the strengths you impose is not yet recorded in the reactions of the world. As far as the bill itself is concerned, I think that with a saying by Aristotle it can be fully attributed to the meaning of those who are trying to succeed. "There is nothing more unequal than equal treatment of equals," the ancient Greek philosopher argued. This phrase also gives the whole mark of the New Democracy government's policy. You are bringing tax reductions on paper for the vast majority of taxpayers, who will have to pay more at the end, and you are allowing the greater concentration of wealth on the economic elite. You give crumbs to the great majority of the Greek people and you give tens of thousands of euros to the possessors and possessors. You are creating a more favourable environment for so-called investors - you are supposed to invite them to invest in our country to have better returns on their money - thereby jeopardising the fiscal stability achieved with the sacrifices of the Greek people. The reductions in taxes you bring, in practice, have no impact on medium-income. On the contrary, the imposition of electronic transactions at 30% of income entails multiple final tax obligations for medium and low incomes. In practice, you ask taxpayers to spend 30% of their income by ignoring the real income available, since the inflexible costs not calculated to achieve the consumption target leave them really little room. Now let's go compare the two policies. What do citizens lose from New Democracy's economic policy for 2020 and what benefits would they have with SYRIZA's economic policy? You charged the SYRIZA government with twenty-nine unfair taxes. In the preliminary draft budget you have brought, there is no mention of the abolition of any of them. SYRIZA, in September 2018, committed itself to specific tax reductions, which it implemented until May 2019, when it committed itself to a second package of tax reliefs that it could not finally implement, due to political developments. In other words, within eight months it has managed to bring about significant changes in taxation, such as the reduction of ENVY, the reduction in energy, focus and food, but to plan and commit a number of measures in 2020. With this positive precedent and on the basis of the medium-term framework and the creation of the special account - a pillow, as we say - SYRIZA has created all the conditions for the greatest tax reductions since 2010. The New Democracy has made an election commitment to specific tax reliefs, but if one reads the draft budget, one will see that many of them have been referred to the bells. Let's see: SYRIZA, based on the medium-term program and the aid of the pillow, had said that the surplus would decrease by 1% and would be channelled in 2020 by 75% to more tax reliefs and by 25% to an increase in social policies. On the contrary, the New Democracy does not go ahead with any claim and reduction of surpluses. The amount of surplus remains at 3.5%. We had announced that the reduction in HAVIA would in principle reach the small and very small properties 50% and would reach 30%. There is no further reduction in you. On the contrary, the benefit of 2019 will be lost as we will have an increase in the value of real estate. We had said and put a reduction in the tax payment to 50% for natural persons and personal enterprises in 2020-2021 and 80% for legal persons. You will not at all reduce the advance tax. We have proposed to increase the depreciation rate to 150%. You won't increase the depreciation rate. We have proposed abolishing the solidarity levy for incomes of up to EUR 20,000 and reducing the rates for higher incomes. The solidarity levy will not be abolished to you. We had proposed lowering the VAT rate from 13% to 11%. The VAT rate will not be reduced to you. We had proposed a reduction in the tax on cooperative farmers. You will not have the income tax reduced. We had proposed lowering the cost of heating oil for mountain areas. You will not reduce this cost in mountainous areas. We had said a reduction in the income tax on permanent islands with a population of up to three thousand per cent. You will not be implemented and the tax will not be reduced. We had said a reduction of HISPIAN for permanent residents on islands with a population of up to a thousand inhabitants. You will not reduce the EMA in these categories. There is, however, one taxpayer who is favoured and that is the very big business.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u558	Please complete, Mr. Avramakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u559	Yes, I'm closing, Mr. President. For these enterprises, the government provides for generous tax reductions. The results will be to gain much more power over their small competitors. You want practically to dismantle small and medium-sized entrepreneurship for the benefit of the large. You want to create a Greece of tomorrow, as you say in the title of the bill, significantly reducing the free professionals of the country. You invite the owners of small and medium-sized enterprises to become employees in their shops. In conclusion, I will say that the tax concessions you bring are infinite in relation to the overtaxation that the Greek people are currently in existence, but also the new type of tax punishment that is being imposed above everyone on the basis of your policy: or you will consume things that you do not need or you will get the things that the state imposes on you. Saving, which is for an hour of need and to help your children, is now the only option for the few. To return to the saying of Aristotle and close, the government has found a way to increase the gap between rich and poor. He found the way to make the middle class even more poor with this tax bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u560	The Parliamentary spokesperson of Mera25, Mrs Bakadima, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u561	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin and enter the tax bill we are debating today, let me make two comments very briefly following yesterday's meeting with President Erdogan. Unfortunately, we see that the New Democracy continues, following the choices of the previous government. Who are these? Alliance with President Trump, alliance with multinational oil, support for the government of Israel and good relations and support for the Egyptian regime. Unfortunately, we consider that the Turkish President has once again been strengthened, even since yesterday's meeting. What do we propose as Mera25 that this should be done? First of all, the government must understand that it cannot step on two boats. It cannot be well with Brussels and the President of the United States, when Mr Trump himself has said that Brussels is not an ally. Secondly, to stop trying to play the role of a good student in foreign policy as well as in economic policy and finally to formulate a separate Greek foreign policy. Furthermore, to veto NATO, in all those decisions that undermine peace in the region, while at the same time promoting European positions in favour of the Kurds in Northern Syria. To abolish co-existence agreements in the Eastern Mediterranean with Israel, Egypt and oil. We propose that an international conference on the green transition to the Eastern Mediterranean region be convened in Athens immediately. To take the necessary steps to recognize the State of the Palestinians at last. Finally, we must send a message of peace and cooperation with all the Turkish democrats. A few days before the debate on the 2020 budget begins, we are here to talk about the new tax bill brought by the government and is, in principle, implementing what the budget provides for, with which the rulings are trying to show creditors and the European Union that they are good and obedient students and are prepared to try to fully fulfil the objectives of the primary surpluses already imposed, regardless of how out-of- fact and exterminational they are. In addition, Mr Stagiras, from the very first days he took over the position of the Minister of Finance, with his public positions, underlined his commitment to his own, staff and government to honour the obligations for a surplus of 3.5% by blocking the eyes essentially on the harmful and disastrous consequences of the over-exploited surpluses in our country's already burdened and weak economy. By choosing to overlook the fact that, by committing to complying with the Eurogroup's decision of 15 June 2017 on primary surpluses of 3.5% by 2022, approximately 2% by 2060, in the light of the fact that this is ultimately a relief of our debt, since this is the restructuring implemented by our creditors with a number of respondent public surpluses to the private sector in order to repay a non-viable debt, it also maintains - the new Minister of Finance - the permanent austerity of our country, by stepping up and strengthening the poverty of the majority of the Greeks. And it is no accident to refer to the Eurogroup, ladies and gentlemen, since yesterday it met the specific, uninstitutionalised and lacking political legitimacy, where the government has shown itself to be an exemplary prisoner. In fact, the Minister stated, after the distribution of Eurogroup communiqué, that the good course of the Greek economy was recognised by participants and the progress made was confirmed, with the Greek economy moving forward. How did this recognition of progress come about? Through the Eurogroup decision authorising institutions to initiate the process of technical processing the possible use of profits by Greek bonds, either to reduce gross financing needs or to finance mutually acceptable investments. So what does the communiqué of yesterday's Eurogroup say to us? It states that creditors are not allowed to use the profits of ANFAs and SMPs for another purpose, in addition to debt write-downs or agreed investments. So, in the first case, they return to creditors, instead of being channelled into the real economy, operating multiplierally, promoting real growth, while in the second case, that commonly accepted investment, there is no guarantee that the local oligarchy will not be favoured, once again, at the expense of the people, nor any clarification of what kind of investment we are talking about. Let us note that the decision says that the treatment of possible use will begin. Also problematic remains the absence of any provision for the end of the consultation procedure. Unfortunately, the Government's attitude to the Eurogroup - and indeed the commemorations that followed - shows that it was preferable once again to continue the break with the people rather than with the lenders, even when it comes to funds that are ours, such as bonds' profits and as ours should be used to improve the anemic situation of the Greek economy. But the compromise seems to be better for our country's governments. Returning to the tax bill under discussion, it is worth noting that the leadership of the Ministry of Finance comes, in essence, to reap the fruits that SYRIZA's overtaxation has brought this year, however, by putting its neoliberal print here as well. Let me explain to you what I mean by that. If we look carefully at the bill, we will see the classics that propel the ruled party's ideology to be reflected in every article of it. Large winners will once again be big companies, with the majority of households and citizens receiving crumbs that will be invited to return through VAT. More specifically, those who will pay less are the large companies and their shareholders, benefiting from one of the reductions in the corporate tax rate and the tax rate on the dividends received by the shareholders. At the same time, it is worth noting that, according to the budget estimates, 2020 is expected to increase the tax revenue mainly benefiting from VAT revenues. I'm going to stand for a time economy in very few parts of the bill. First of all, although we have a redefinition of the scales and rates of income tax on employees and pensions, if we look carefully at the changes, we will easily understand that the majority of both categories will see a negligible benefit between EUR 0 and EUR 15 monthly. Shortly below, we have a 24% reduction in legal income tax, which only relates to very large and large businesses, making an early Christmas gift to the domestic oligars. As MERA25, we firmly believe that the reduction should be and should be proportionate to the basic benefits of medium-sized and small enterprises. Let us now go to the 5% reduction of the pre-tax payment from business activity, a move that - believe me - can only be seen as communication. The 95% reduction means that all enterprises will share 138 million euros in proportion. If the government had accepted the amendment we tabled in August to complete the abolition of payment, we would have a liquidity benefit of up to EUR 2.76 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, the bankruptcy, in which we continue to be, is maintained by the insanity of the highest rates of taxation, in an economy where turbulence and therefore public revenues are low, with a further tendency to reduce. That is why the main pillars of the Mera25 programme for taxation are the following. Reduction of the maximum VAT rate from 24% to 15% and 18%, depending on whether payments are made electronically, going to 15% or cash at 18%. Progressive business tax, with a reduction in the tax on a few large businesses from 29% to 26%, the middle to 20% and the small to 15%. Eliminate the 100% advance tax -95% after the end of these two days - while at the same time abolishing the solidarity tax for incomes of less than EUR 30,000. Keep tax-free and reduce rates for income from 12,000 to 15,000 euros. The reduction in taxation will increase the available income for consumers, resulting in increased demand and the reduction of material pressures, while reducing corporate taxation will give them a breath of liquidity and undeniably attract new investments. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately for the Greek people, and the current government continues the economic policy of poverty among the many in favour of the few specific families who continue to be rich. A policy of permanent austerity imposed and followed by SYRIZA. That is why they do not now have the right to judge as permits the policies established by the New Democracy. On the same road they walk after all. SYRIZA, as a left party, may have imposed them with a heavy heart - and I honestly believe that he did so with a heavy heart - but for our fellow citizens the result was the same. It's like asking a torture victim if he prefers to torture a congressman with guilt and cry at night when he comes home or someone else who will do so with a little lighter consciousness. The result for the victim will be the same. It won't change. The victim will suffer again. Before I close, I would like to say that often and today, we are hearing a criticism of the costs of Varoufakis. I will invoke only evidence that can be found if he searches them. What do the evidence show? That the six months of the negotiations of Yani Varoufakis had no cost to the country. I immediately explain what I mean: EUR 178.6 billion of GDP and EUR 319.6 billion of debt when it took over, EUR 177.7 billion of GDP and EUR 317.4 billion of debt when it handed over. So it didn't just cost, but the opposite. Decrease sizes leading to significant...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u562	How much did the banks lose from their capital value?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u563	Come on, come on. Don't interrupt. Come on, Mrs. Bakadima.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u564	Can I talk about bank Run? I don't have time. I could talk. In my denture tomorrow, Mr. Amyras. I promise. So it didn't just cost, but the opposite. Decrease the sizes, leading to significant, though small reduction in austerity. We are here, talking about the new tax bill establishing reductions in the corporate tax rate and the tax rate of dividends, at the same time that thousands of our fellowmen are waiting for the Minister's communications on the beneficiaries and the amount of social dividends to see who will get the allowance so that they can make holidays, at the same time that many also live with the support of social solidarity income. And retired people are waiting to know if they'll get the promised retrospectives. That is something I think we should all be concerned about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u565	Thank you. A request has been made by Mr Katsotis, whose turn is after four speakers in particular. He asked to be promoted, if it's easy, because something happened to him. Does the House agree after Mr. Haritou speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u566	The House has agreed. Mr. Haritou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u567	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the bill you entered for a vote is neither a tax reform, as you are trying to present it, nor, of course, has any developmental targets. In the new memorial period that the country has entered, it really needs a tax law with social justice and medium-sized strata. But you're not ready. You're in another year. Repeat your old classic self. You're turning us back to your familiar past. Give a lot to a few and a few. In the new period for the country, fiscal measures should be targeted at serving its development perspective. But you are legislating on other criteria: tax exemptions for very large incomes. I'm asking you. Didn't you do it on several occasions in the past? Did he, gentlemen, prevent what was followed? I'm afraid you're turning us back to the pathogens that led the country into bankruptcy. You look like you've been self-sufficient in your pre-election account when you said you'd redeemed the Greeks from taxes. It is true that you have been believed by the world today that you are unable to respond to stress is not hidden. That is why you were lost in translation: what is the definition of middle-class? May I remind you what we and the Greek people were listening to? "We will return to the middle class what Tsipras took her." Do you remember who said it? The current Prime Minister. And today, with the regulations, what are you doing for the middle class, for the incomes of EUR 20,000-50,000? Do you know what you're doing? You're returning all 17 euros to her. Congratulations. Finally, you recognize today, today you publicly admit that this was what the previous government finally took from the middle class. But do you remember the hysteria and taxation climate for the taxation you inherited? One-one, you've counted the taxes we supposedly brought. For twenty-nine unjust taxes you were aging. And today, silence. Have you forgotten them or have they become righteous? I shall, however, come back to the essence of the arrangements you introduce. You said you'd redeemed the Greeks from the taxes. And today what exactly did you do? You have solved big profitable businesses and incomes over 100,000 euros. In other words, you redeem 1% of the Greek people. You're doing the same thing with business. You only reduce taxation for six thousand of the hundreds of thousands who are struggling to survive, i.e. you only deliver 2.5% of the businesses. What else are you doing? You solve those who have dividends, shares, funds, you redeemed companies that invest in real estate, portfolio investment companies, i.e. redeemed the owners and owners. Only those you promised you'd save the middle class are not redeemed. And today you are faced with the hopes and expectations that you have cultivated. It is true that we too, as a government, did not believe that the burdens they have undertaken to raise parts of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship were necessary, both disproportionately and above all, we did not believe that they were temporary and transitional. And when the treaties actually allowed targeted interventions to be carried out, with support measures and tax relief totalling EUR 2 billion, do you remember, gentlemen, how you dealt with them? For you, the 50% reduction in the tax advance was nothing. But ask the professionals what they say. For you, the reduction in the tax on cooperative farmers has no value. Why would he have it? You have added new raisins to fishing vessels today. For you, the abolition of the solidarity levy for incomes up to EUR 20,000 again is nothing nor, of course, the reduction in VAT rates from 13% to 11%. Measures which have not been implemented because they have been abolished. Remember, gentlemen, when these measures were announced, what did the current Prime Minister say? "You have taken the carve from the world and given it an antidote". Do you remember that? That's what he said. In contrast, the two billion measures and the tax evasions that have never been implemented because you have abolished them. And what are you, gentlemen, today the carbs that we supposedly took from the world? Cut feta feta cheese to satisfy the owners and holders and crumbs that are left for the middle class, because crumbs are the reductions of the 17 euros you make. Unfortunately, however, for entrepreneurship in Thrace and these crumbs do not exist to get. The air of the jagged blocker, and you won't be dealing with it. The unfair competition received by small businesses from neighbouring countries has eliminated them. Phenomena, which lead to the shrinkage of even the disappearance of professional sectors, leading to the extinction of the local economy. I know, Minister, that you have been visited by the productive operators in the region and tabled concrete proposals. I hope they find hospitable ears, otherwise any election promises you made there will be disproved. I'm closing, Mr. President. The bill has neither a reformist nor a development perspective. That is why I am obviously voting against.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u568	Mr Katsotis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u569	Thank you, Mr President, and colleagues for facilitating. Minister, tax pay for the people continues no matter how much you attempt to present the bill as a tax relief. You continue tax exemptions for large business groups and, on the other hand, employees, pensioners, self-employed, farmers, farmers and fishermen are still paying increased taxes. The evidence is undisputed. Business groups participate with only 7% in tax revenues and workers, pensioners and people's populations with 93%. And this relationship continues to be reversed for the benefit of big capital and this bill. This relationship shows that the tax system formed by urban governments is becoming more and more anti-grassrooted, increasingly supporting capital, literally robbing the people, overthrowing thousands of people's lives, leading them to poverty and overcharge. The primary surpluses continue to bleed the people 3.5% to 2023 and 2.2% to 2060 for the repayment of the state debt, which is not the people, but for the monopolistic and business interests. The work of all governments, including PASOK and the New Democracy and SYRIZA, is to introduce and maintain new taxes, such as ENPIA, which would be temporary, but increasingly expanding. The contribution of solidarity, the trade end, the increase in VAT mainly to 24%, the increase in taxes on fuel, drinks, legacy and other increased charges and taxes imposed on local administration. All of this is a levelling-up of the people. It is also your job, all of you, to smash the wages, which is still going on with the recent development law, since, through associations - persons, contracts will be signed which will reduce the average wages of workers as a whole. It's continuing to smack pensions. We have the new insurance that the announcements are already in this direction, the reduction of duty-free, the abolition of tax exemptions for employees and pensioners. On the other hand, we have the constant tax exemptions and tax relief for large capital. It is your job to auction even the first home, and even to qualify as the peculiarity of the protests, for them, of course, by smuggling the penalties provided for. The New Democracy continues from where SYRIZA stopped, who maintained and expanded the taxation of the former, further reducing capital taxes. New Republic and SYRIZA operate in measures in favour of major business groups. For example, SYRIZA before the elections the tax rate from 29% made him 28% in order to take him to 25%. The New Democracy of 28% makes him 24% in order to go to 20%. SYRIZA before the elections reduced the rate of taxation of redistributed profits from 15% to 10%. The New Democracy after the elections reduces this rate from 10% to 5%. For the depreciation in big capital, SYRIZA said 150%, New Democracy up to 200%. It is not enough that business groups are involved with just 7% in the name of investment and new jobs, you are further reducing their taxation by EUR 615 million. You are showing that by reducing the tax rate and the reduced VAT rate by EUR 281 million, everyone benefits. The 281 million are taxpayers, while 615 million relate to a handful of business groups. Tax exemptions on capital have brought new burdens on workers. You have grabbed EUR 50 billion from the people with the unfavourable taxes you have all imposed in previous years. The government as it reduces the share of companies in all tax burdens, the transfer of these reductions to workers and the public as a percentage of tax revenues. You say that the reduction in taxation will create new jobs. Since 2014 you have voted to offset the losses suffered by the banks with taxes from future profitability. Last year the SYRIZA government arranged more favourable for the banks, allowing their losses to be offset by the profits of the next twenty years. And while bankers don't pay tax, they lay off workers. Piraeus fired twenty-five employees who refused to go to the company managing the red loans, as they would lose the rights deriving from the contracts and regulations. We note that SYRIZA as a government legislated the possibility of secession. From this example, your claim is not confirmed that the reduction in taxation creates jobs either in other areas, such as in the tourism sector in which labour relations are slavery. Nor in shipping, which, despite the voluntary contribution of each ship, amounts to a kiosk - despite the provocative tax exemptions, fifty-seven the number - the change in the organic composition of the vessels has led to a spectacular reduction in the number of jobs. The examples are many. At the same time as tax reductions in business groups, you legislate and redundancies, such as in PPC, which you call them voluntary, in PPC, that you do not guarantee anyone who is working and will follow more in the next period from businesses that are going to the so-called restructurings, namely privatisations. The Government has as a reduction in the new tax scale in wages and pensions as proof that the reductions concern all. It does not, however, replace, to the very least, the 'tax rate' which has taken place in previous years and which remains. On the contrary, the people's family, despite reduced incomes compared to 2009, pays unbearable taxes compared to that. For example, in 2009, the minimum wage was EUR 751 and the tax-free EUR 12 000. In 2019, the minimum wage is EUR 650 and the duty-free EUR 8.636. If we compare VAT then and now, if we add the new taxes you have put in and the arrangements for electronic transactions, the account does not come out. Labour folk families are squeezing. From this point of view, the tax bill satisfys the great capital and plagues the majority of the people. The tax scale is another pillar of the snatching of people's incomes complemented by indirect taxes on people's consumption, by cuts in funds for social needs and, of course, by a number of countermeasures provided for in the 2020 State Budget. The people's movement requires 'taxes'. The JRC supports the positions for a brave increase in the tax rate for employees, pensioners, self-employed, farmers, farmers and fishermen, abolish the ENPI and all characters, deduct from taxation and health, PPC, heating, water, telephony, tax with 45% of the profits and assets of the large capital, abolish VAT on wide popular consumption. In view of all this, we are voting 'no' in the draft government tax law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u570	Thank you. The next speaker is Mr Stavros Arachovitis from SYRIZA and then Mr Arahovitis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u571	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since 2010 when the country went bankrupt and entered the adventure of the memorials, the government of SYRIZA had to come back to resurrect the country with great effort, it is true, but with the result that, with the protection of the financially unstable from the crisis, the unemployed, the uninsured, the employees, the retired, the small and medium-sized free professionals. The result came in August 2018. Since then the consequences of the Memorandums can and began in 2018 and in the first few months of 2019 to be slowly lifted. With this tax bill, however, it is clear that the hopes of the New Democracy and Mitsotakis have been frustrated in the middle class. On the contrary, the great winners are natural persons and companies with high incomes. They will have the great benefit of taxing their incomes, but also of reducing a number of other provisions such as a reduction in dividend tax, a reduction in the required electronic transactions, and a reduction in the tax on corporate bonds holders. The General Confederation of Professional Craft Trades of Greece points out that the tax bill favours and mainly strengthens high incomes. It tells us that the tax bill under discussion widens fiscal inequalities and income inequalities. As far as farmers are concerned, it was New Democracy in 2013 that with Law 4172 taxed farmers from the first euro on all incomes and subsidies, and it was the SYRIZA government that introduced three tax-free for farmers. It was also the government of SYRIZA that abolished the trade charge for the cooperative farmers imposed by the Government of New Democracy. So the tax bill we are debating today does not bring any real benefit to farmers. The changes in taxation do not concern the vast majority of farmers. The reduction in taxation is marginal and it still touches less than 10% of farmers. The positive measure of the bill, which is something we announced last May, namely the introduction of the low rate of 10% from 13% for agricultural cooperative schemes and producer groups, is not about natural persons - farmers. You have not dared to give the tax credit for farmers - natural persons, members of cooperatives, which Alexis Tsipras had announced since May 2019. You dare not give a true brave incentive that cooperatives need to support with new members. Nor did we see the reduction of the tax advance to 50%, which the New Democracy had electionally flagged. Of course neither the recent announcement by Prime Minister Mitsotakis of a discount on agricultural oil is reflected in the tax bill, nor in the budget. In fact, in the 2020 budget the revenues from the excise duty on oil are increased by 177 million, i.e. from 1,364 for 2019 to 1,541 for 2020. Then it seems that the information that they say is changing the issue of agricultural oil for later in the future is being confirmed. But, ladies and gentlemen, what is really the worst and most outrageous is that the first measure of the New Democracy Government that we see for fishermen is a slick in the fishes that will apply from 1-1-2020. So congratulations on this first action which will hit all the small coastal fishermen, which is the overwhelming majority of fishermen, namely the guardians of the Aegean Sea, that is, the inhabitants of the Greek beaches, that is to say the people of the toil that are really trying in difficult weather every day, with competition from other fishermen in the Aegean Sea to make a cut. Instead of introducing some tax relief - the abolition of the trade fee or the reduction of the advance - you put a horizontal fee that is not even linked to turnover, but only to the existence of a registration number. That's why it's a clear outfit. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy annulled everything it said in an election on the tax relief of the middle class. For the majority of farmers there is no benefit and no substantial incentive to strengthen their participation in collective schemes. On the contrary, the cherry on the cake and the surprise is a new horizontal charm for our fishermen. This is the reality of your tax bill, Minister. And the beauty doesn't pass, as much an honorable communication effort as you do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u572	Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. George Francis from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u573	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today another much more famous bill of government, which has created high expectations in Greek society and has resulted in a relentless legalisation, just as was the case with development a while ago. Great words and promises, creation of hope, but in the end cancellation. And that's a repetitive pattern. You promised, ladies and gentlemen of the government, reform and development. In fact, you have made sure to include these words in the grand title of the bill. However, you do not bring about substantial reform. This would require a structural change in the tax system, which you do not do, despite your election promises. You do not guarantee the stability of the tax system in order to create an environment favourable to investment. You showed yourself up and up in this piece of legislation and, furthermore, bring it to the House with fast track procedures. However, you do not achieve the aim of growth either. Once again you are burdening the middle class, which we know very well that it has been hit unresolved in previous years, which disproportionately lifted the burden of the economic crisis and almost disappeared. You promised tax relief and restoring social justice. But who are you relieved by the provisions of this bill? However, not the middle and grassroots layers. You are once again relying on them, so that you can achieve the surpluses of EUR 7 billion. Some minor reductions in natural persons do not concern the main feeders of the economy, employees and pensioners with incomes of between EUR 20,000 and EUR 50,000. For these, the reductions are from very small to non-existent. The taxpayers, i.e. contributing 53% of the total personal income tax, will only see the funny reductions from EUR 17 to EUR 37 in their annual tax. You must understand, however, that these citizens have no more to give. They have "stored" Uk if they are received rather than have, as we say. Their protracted imposition is now a threat to social cohesion. The disproportionate relationship between indirect and direct taxes, with indirect taxes exceeding, shows the unfair distribution of tax burdens and an economy that is not in development. The draft budget for 2020 provides for an increase in income tax on natural persons by EUR 264 million and increases in taxes on goods and services by EUR 979 million. How can this mean lowering taxes, as you claim? Is it not a paradox of the budget? With the obligation to carry out 30% of the expenditure on electronic transactions, do you think that low incomes will be able to secure their tax-free status and not be charged with the penalty provided for? The 30% measure, in order to have a real impact, should be accompanied by the incentive to exempt bank debits in electronic transactions and the introduction of an inconsistent business account. A positive measure for attracting foreigners through the transfer of their tax head office to our country, although a limited impact on the economy. Perhaps it would be more beneficial to give incentives to Greek citizens who, because of the crisis, have transferred their tax base to other countries. You should also bear in mind that issues may arise from the non-taxation of income in its country of origin, the taxation of world income, the negative disposal of other countries for this measure. The reduction in the income tax rate from 28% to 24% in enterprises is a positive measure. It would be right, however, to link it to employment, that is to say to new jobs and to convert semi-employment into full-time employment and also to investing in research, innovation and technology equipment and in general to adapt to modern data from the fourth industrial revolution, climate change and the need to protect the environment. The reduction in dividend tax from 10% to 5% is positive, but it concerns a very small percentage of enterprises, since small and medium-sized enterprises are still suffering today from the trade end, the special solidarity levy, the tendency to increase the objective values of real estate and thus, the HIS. It would be right, since the memorials have ended, to abolish all these taxes imposed by the crisis: HICP, the trade fee and all the extraordinary taxes, the result of the memoranda. The Change Movement in support of young entrepreneurs and professionals proposes full income tax exemption and contributions for the main pension sector for the first three years and 50% for the next two. It also proposes that every 100 euros that the company pays for newly recruited full-time workers should be exempted from taxation by EUR 150. As far as agricultural income provisions are concerned, you are introducing a 10% tax rate for agricultural cooperative schemes. Good measure, but incomplete. It does not address the problem of the lack of incentives for farmers to deliver their products to cooperatives. We propose that the proceeds from deliveries of products to cooperatives should be considered reduced by 35%. In general, we also propose, in addition to the 9% tax rate for income of up to EUR 10,000, a 13% rate for excess taxable income. The amendment we have tabled also provides for the exemption for agricultural aid and compensation other than the single payment of more than EUR 20,000, as well as for the exclusion of agricultural parcels from the additional EMI tax. The citizens need a legal tax system that strengthens them, stimulates them and prevents tax evasion. Instead, they continue to see a state of punishment, which uses its basic tool, namely tax, to punish them and safeguard them with trouble. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u574	The next speaker is Mr Zabeck Hussein from SYRIZA. Until Mr Zabeck comes to Vima, I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that the length of the meeting will be until 1:00. Until then, with respect to the years, colleagues can speak until the number 64 or 65. That's where we figure it out. This remains to be proved, of course, in practice too. A first assessment is made by the Bureau, and from there on, we will see how the debate is going to develop. Approximately till number 64.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u575	What if they don't talk today?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u576	What do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u577	If he's not here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u578	They'll talk tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u579	They will speak tomorrow if some are not here today by that number.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u580	Let colleagues be sure to be informed. If we go with that logic and they're gone, we'll close the meeting sooner and...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u581	I'm just asking, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u582	I'll explain it, too. They will be left for tomorrow, so the number of speakers will increase, with both time and meeting. Mr. Zabeck, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u583	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I speak on the bill, I would like to refer to the statements made by Mr Velopoulos, who served in a racist misconduct against Islam. Such views are disgraceful to be heard at the temple of democracy. They remind us of other black times and they're doomed. We see that recently there has been a general effort to target the multicultural Thrace, which is an example of coexistence, as in the case of the statements made by the Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Athanasios, a few days ago, who considered Lesvos to be a new Rodopi, undervalued and offended the minority of Thrace, which is Greek citizens. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] Obviously I too condemn these statements and all democratic forces together must not allow us to return to times of darkness. I'm going through today's bill. It is almost five months since you took over the country's rule, five months after the recital came out of thick words and promises of tax relief, development, investment, return to normality, redress of the middle class and much more. There has been a series of promises accompanied by the media projection of a false prosperity that slowly returns after bad - for you - the government of SYRIZA. But what are you actually doing? What else have you given the citizens? Have you improved their everyday lives? Do you share any money and jobs? Did you bring growth? Have you solved the problem of refugee or, at one time, did you make us feel safe in our cities? Of all this, you haven't changed the economy, and we handed you the country out of memorials and the economy to a development orbit. No other jobs have been opened, even in October there has been a negative record of eighteen years between recruitment and redundancies, unless we consider the recruitment of special guards as a positive element instead of special treatment teachers. You didn't bring growth as you walk the way we carved you. Nor do you solve the refugee problem, since in an unspeakable move, which proves your lack of humanity, you propose to send people who are hurt on uninhabited islands. As for how safer our cities suddenly became, all we have seen is crackdown without any crackdown or practical intervention against lawlessness, only moves of impression. And in this context, because it is not enough for you to take care of your own, with or without the qualifications required, in the administrations of hospitals, you also come to take care of the big incomes with the tax bill. And we ask, where did the proclamations go to wipe out the overtaxation of the middle class? Of course, you in the middle class belong to those who are rewarded with 450 euros a month. Therefore, we could consider that EUR 2 to EUR 20 a month to reduce tax, making a difference for employees and pensioners. We welcome all tax relief for the low and medium-sized layers, but not to accept that crumbs saved from taxpayers' pockets are exempting them from tax burdens. Besides, cut them off from elsewhere, such as the reductions in the social dividend. But I shall refer to that later. With regard to the provisions of this draft law, I shall refer to specific articles. Article 7 refers to electronic transactions. While this measure was taken at the initiative of our own government to combat tax evasion, you are making the single scale, that is 30% of taxpayers' transactions must be made electronically, regardless of income, with a figure of EUR 20,000. In short, spending on electronic transactions becomes more difficult for low and medium-incomes. Article 9 concerns the reduction of income tax. While reducing the import rate to 9% to 10,000 euros, you are bringing large reductions in large incomes and low incomes for medium and small. As for freelance professionals, as long as you don't make it clear what you intend to bring to their insurance, it's all on the air. The same applies to farmers, who, at first, announced that the lowest category of contributions would be up to EUR 220 out of EUR 114 on our own government, but to this day you have not clarified exactly what you are going to do. The overall conclusion is that your tax reform is not developmental or socially balanced, since very high incomes, more than 100,000 per annum, and not small and medium-sized enterprises. You have reached the point of considering the subsidy for gold mining as a development measure. So your tax policy is also at issue, because if we take into account, firstly, the reduction of benefits in social dividends, which is huge, I do not think the result will be positive. The SYRIZA government gave 800 million last year to three million seven hundred thousand beneficiaries and 700 million last year to three hundred thousand beneficiaries. You promise 100 to 150 million for two thousand households. This is a overwhelming reduction. Secondly, the changes you have introduced to the heating allowance are also unbearable, especially for some prefectures like mine. As I pointed out in a relevant question to the Minister of Finance, Xanthi Prefecture, due to the wide variations in altitude, as Xanthi Mountains cross the Rhodope Mountain range, has significant variations in temperature. For this reason, the two of the four municipalities of Xanthi are characterized as mountains. It is the Municipality of Mykis and Xanthi and specifically the region of Stavroupolis. With your circular this year the mountain municipalities do not go to the highest climate zone, i.e. from the 2nd Zone to the 1st Zone for the case of Xanthi and thus reduce the heating allowance for mountain municipalities to a spectacular percentage. If we take into account the limited disposal of firewood in these areas, it is understood that winter will be very difficult for the Blonde people. The first snow has already fallen and the distribution of firewood has not even begun. I would therefore urge you to leave the moves of impression, especially with this bill, as it proves that you do not care about the middle and low levels and the real problems of the citizens. Your only meaning is the appointment of your friends to the public, even without degrees and the service of the interests of the country's privileged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u584	Thank you, too. Mrs Vetta Calliope has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u585	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill by the Ministry of Finance is perhaps the most anticipated bill by the Government of New Democracy. Hundreds of articles and publications were written in an election paper on the tax attack by SYRIZA in previous years on the bleeding of the middle class, the suffocation of the companies and, if there were any studies and official evidence that during the rule of SYRIZA, an end to the economic catastrophe of the middle-class that had begun with the memorial tombs of the New Democracy and PASOK. In fact, not only has there been a breakdown of the relative decline, but there has also been a small rise in the standard of living, according to official figures. The then Opposition preached in a sad style the death of the merchant and the middle class, who waited for its resurrection not since the advent of Monday's Presence, but of the New Democracy, now anointed by the overcompensation of debts that it had created during the times it ruled, would save Greek society, as was its account. The expectations were great and the bar had been set very high. However, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you did not seem to be worthy of the expectations of people who well believed in the last elections. On the contrary, you have found yourself worthy of and gratitude to the people and to the interests that support you firmly, to the big time and to business with considerable profits, because today's bill forms the neoliberal views on the taxation of natural and legal persons. The more money one has, the less proportionate one has to tax. On the contrary, the vast majority of the wage earners, pensioners, farmers, free professionals must be content with crumbs, promises and tips. I'll be more specific. Is it or is it not crumbly that the EUR 12 a month for the employee with two children and an income of EUR 15,000 a year? For the same employee with an income of 19,000 euros a year, the relief will be about 2 euros a month! I do not think anyone can think that this is anything but a mockery. A pensioner without children and 12,000 euros income will benefit 15 euros a month. I mean, a man who belongs to a group for which you had frequent reports will benefit by 0.50 minutes a day. However, there are some who rightly thank you for today's bill and in particular for Article 9. These are the people who say more than EUR 100,000 a year, that is less than 1% of taxpayers. They will benefit several thousand euros from reducing rates, thereby certifying that it is your privileged political base and reference. Also, to refer to the free professionals you had also pre-electionally promised miracles. The current tax reliefs are evaporated by the Minister of Labour's announcement that insurance contributions for the lower classes will be increased by 20%. From EUR 168 currently the lowest level will be EUR 210 to EUR 220. So we've got a 20% to 25% increase. We, in response to years of age demands from the self-employed, have linked the level of the contribution to the declared income so that there is proportionality and justice. This initiative, in fact, worked in favour of the EFCA funds, which was on the verge of collapse and became sustainable and surplus. Nowadays, with the new scales announced by the Minister responsible, big time-consumers will have a great deal of reduction in their contributions, while those who declare low incomes will pay more. If we take into account increases in PPC tariffs, increases ranging from 15% to 20%, then we can imagine what the total annual burden will be on employees, pensioners, farmers and free traders. Also, under the pretext of combating tax evasion, you proceed to the mandatory use of electronic transactions at a level of 30% of the total income. Let us not consider that for very high incomes the obligation for electronic costs from EUR 30 000 to EUR 20,000 is reduced. And here, that is, we have a clear class division. With this measure, it is very likely that those who do not fill the amount necessary to be taxed with 22% of the difference and we will have new charges and debts, especially for freelance professionals, who are unable in advance to know what income they will make at the end of the year, unlike employees and pensioners. I want to make - finally - a special reference to Article 18, which provides for exemption from a solidarity levy for disability of all kinds at 80% or more. It is certainly a positive provision and we shall vote on it. However, I think this is a cowardly initiative, as you put the threshold too high, contrary to the provision that we were working on with the disability rate at 67%. I suggest you rethink it. Closed up, I return to my original reasoning. With this bill, I think - the honeymoon for the Government of New Democracy - ends. Following citizens' dissents over the Ambassadors' Agreement, which you fortunately accepted and defend on a daily basis, for excellence, the final state with twice as many transgressors, appointed ministers and ministers with or without degrees, for labour, individual and social rights came disappointment and for your tax policy. Moreover, despite the unanimous media support, it is time for the account, as all Greek citizens will compare the announcements with your implementations. They will compare 4% of the development you were saying with 2.8% that you claim to be in conflict with all the international institutions that predict that it will be significantly lower. They will compare promises to raise the minimum wage to twice the rate of GDP, as you said, with the reality that there is nowhere in your plans to implement such a measure. They will compare your announcements for the 13th session with its abolition. The increase in the heating oil allowance that you were saying before will compare it to the significant reduction that you now bring. Only social solidarity benefits were you - and you remain - stable and reliable, as you remain on a timely basis and from a position against them. There, according to the budget that we will be discussing next week, there is a reduction in the family allowances of AMEA and a total of EUR 367 million. Perhaps these charges should ultimately pay the EUR 450 million for the six thousand companies in the country, namely, less than 2.5% of the total that come out of the current bill, as they will gain 80% of the total relief for legal persons. We from Acoustic Opposition will support whatever positive provision the bill has, however, assuming that the whole of it is class-oriented and does not support the great tax base of Greek citizens, who are very quickly aware of your intentions. Soon they will move on to the next step and turn your back. It's a matter of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u586	Thank you, too. Mrs. Theophistas Perkas, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u587	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start with a story I just read. If it's true, Mr. Mitsotakis will have a lot to explain. This news refers to 'iefimerida' - it is not our instrument - and it says that in a timeless complaint that the President of the country blatantly tramples against International Law, Erdogan, says Greece protects terrorists. This time she upgraded her and said SYRIZA is the terrorist shelter. And the answer of the country's Prime Minister, who had to protect the country, the state system, was: "Don't worry. Our secret services operate seriously and responsibly." If this news is true, it should be explained or disproved. I'm coming to the bill. Whatever rhetorical cowardice someone has, whatever means they have to support, propaganda, manipulate public opinion, it comes at some point when it is the time of truth. Today, it is an hour like this, because we have the tax bill before us with numbers, predictions, injustices, favors. I do not need to recall in detail the election pain of the New Democracy for the middle class, for farmers, for the scientists and the twenty-nine unfair taxes, which remain twenty-eight. One was abolished by us. And I would not like to bother you with historical reports of overcompensation of the country, subject to two tough memorials with seventy billion measures, but failed, since we were constantly boasted in the crisis, neither for the empty funds found by the SYRIZA Government, for unemployment to rise, for the humanitarian crisis, nor for debt regulation, for the removal of unemployment, for positive growth rates, for the reduction of loan interest rates and for the 30 billion reserve we have found in the licensed funds you have left. Today, then, we will not talk about the past. We'll talk about how the pie is shared. Because, indeed, the tax bill, like the budget, is confusing precisely that. A first conclusion made by many of our colleagues in the Chamber is that most of the reductions, more than 600 million, are directed at large businesses. This corresponds to 2.5% of the total number of enterprises. As, of course, natural persons with very high incomes, about 100,000 annually. I would also like to make a special reference to the scientists and, indeed, to the young scientists, which we are talking about here recently, do not feel very well nor do they feel very scientists. After their degrees have been levelled with the amendment on the performance of professional rights to graduate colleges, the reward for excellence with the Undersecretaries, Governors, your executives, the abolition of the ADP and the reintroduction of the rhyme with the recent law on PPC, the circumvention of labour rights and a number of other provisions passed in this five-month period, this bill, combined with the changes to insurance, gives them no hope. Whatever they say, these scientists will see an increase in their public obligations if we take account of the increase in insurance funds, at least for 2020. And we have here and the reinstatement of a very failed model. She said it before, too. Don't insist. We have 20% increase in contributions by reintroducing insurance. As far as farmers are concerned, relief is indiscriminate, since the regulations of the SYRIZA Government enjoy general tax-free status and only 6% will have a tax relief of EUR 173 per year. It does not reduce the tax on cooperative farmers, while the reduction in the advance tax is only 5%. Of course, the greatest burden is, as usual, the usual suspects of wage earners and pensioners and the tax relief for the majority of them does not exceed EUR 20 per month and for too many is zero or almost zero. So let's see what happens with your favorite middle class. Let's try to define it first. If you want to admit that there is a relief for the middle-class, then we must say that this is determined in incomes of more than EUR 50 000 and the greater the income of the middle-class, the greater the relief. So you think it's going? Because we, as we measure it and calculate it, say that unresponsively favoured by this bill, once again, the few, the rich, the class that you represent. Now I would like to refer to a specific measure, which I really think is quite problematic. And I'm talking about the measure of suspending VAT for three years on real estate. Of course this does not concern the first residence, because the first residence does not have VAT. However, this measure and its temporary nature will lead to an increase in tax evasion, since the contractor will no longer be able to offset the intermediate VAT already paid with the final VAT. It is possible that the scenario of transferring the difference to the buyer, with the increase, of course, of the commercial value of the property. Here we can say that if you want to make an intervention, a proposal could be a reduction in VAT to 13%. Of course, this measure will lead to an increase in building activity over the next three years. After three years, however, there will be a vertical fall in building activity resulting in a new recession. If, however, the measure is extended, we will again be faced with a property bubble and, hence, a great recession. Let us say here that, from this measure of temporary suspension of VAT, but also from the arrangements which enable citizens of third countries, outside the European Union, to transfer their tax residence to Greece, if they invest more than 500,000 in real estate, etc., the richer ones are clearly favoured again. They will be able to buy luxurious dwellings that build and trade in a construction elite. Look, here we have examples. The Greek project is under way, there are complex tourist accommodation consisting of luxurious hotels and hundreds of holiday homes. But what we are really unable to understand is what productive model you are promoting and what you have understood from the recent economic crisis. With the recent development law you have stimulated activities such as delivery, courier, broadcasting, mining and more. It is impossible to detect developmental logic behind these options. Now, with these measures, we have reinstated an activity that has been, as we have said with pride for many years, the engine of our economy, which has had very bad results. Therefore, instead of today and after the experience of the recent crisis, we are gearing our economy to the Fourth Industrial Revolution and creating products of high added value and quality jobs, we are following the dented one. In other words, we attach importance to the country's development progress with the real estate sector, which, although it contributes to temporary GDP growth, eventually leads us to mathematical accuracy at the start of the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u588	Let me inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that it is possible that the list will be up to Mr Baraliacos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u589	Mr President, if some are present, they can speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u590	We'll see the time. Because it's not just us. They're employees too. By 01:00, we'll go. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u591	The New Democracy Government does not miss the opportunity to show what it really is: a genuine political child of the bourgeoisie and enemy of the working people. Today, during the visit of the Minister for Rural Development to Heraklion, they banned the genuine representatives of small and medium-sized farmers from taking part in the wide-ranging meeting that co-organised the government and the region and from tabling their proposals for the total destruction of the crop from the failure of the programme to combat forests. The only responsibility lies with the government and the region. The government, with the tolerance, if not the conscientious opinion, of the Region of Crete, of Members of the New Democracy, of SYRIZA and of the Change Movement - yes, do not be surprised, exactly what I say to you - cooperatives and businessmen - its preferred interlocutors - chose to strike the farmers, to suppress, that is, a peaceful demonstration with the MATs, all they wanted was the delivery of the resolution with their demands. What is moving, then, is being executed. They tried to impose extremities of the tomb silence. The effort, of course, fell into the void. The indignation of farmers is now even greater than the deceiving attitude of the government and the district ruler to their fair demands. They are conscious that the exclusive responsibility lies with all governments over time, with the dramatic underfunding of the homicide programme, the reduction of workers' staff, drug outdated and contractors. And now they're also asking for the change. Mr. Vorides, who has not forgotten his past and is one of the triumphants of legal violence, has smashed the finger on the farm, which has suffered the thousands of millions and actually bleeds for its survival. Neither too little nor much has it illegally described the law of farmers as a matter of horizontal payment of compensation for oil producers to 100% of the damage, even by incriminating farmers themselves on individual responsibility for the failure of the fraud. Shame on you! Shame and disgrace! The JRC denounces the Government of New Democracy and the Minister for the orderly unnecessarily attacking MMs against farmers. It denounces the district ruler of Crete, the SYRIZA-supported and the Change Movement, who put the line in the arms, literally, pleading the doctrine "law and order" of the New Democracy, proving that in his "national group", as he said in an election, the fighting people do not fit and their fair demands. It also denounces the ever-awaited falsifying government trade unionists, who have swallowed their tongues literally and stubbornly serve the anti-agricultural policies of the European Union and their political representatives. The JRC calls on small and medium-sized farmers to continue and strengthen their struggle, not to be afraid, because it concerns their survival against the anti-agricultural, reactionary policy of the European Union, governments and rural people. The anger of the people are afraid, like the devil of the loin. Of course, where the government does not enforce the law and order, it is inappropriate to distort the truth, like the soup that is blurred in water. This is what it does with the tax bill, presenting it as a redistribution bill, which will ease - it says - everybody. I mean, with the policeman and the ranger. And with capital and workers. In a diligent way, it equates the new provocative and brave capital tax exemptions with the crumbs for the people's layers, giving the impression that the tax reliefs of EUR 1,200,000, are for everyone themselves, that they are all benefiting. In fact, however, and contrary to the government's propaganda policing, the suit is cut and sewn for the needs of strengthening the competitiveness and profitability of business groups and not for the populace layers that are permanently underage. Qualitation in favour of large capital comes out with the further reduction of their tax rates from 28% to 24%, the taxation of dividends to 5% from 10%, as a consequence of the reduction in the SYRIZA government from 15% to 10% and the reduction in the advance tax to 95%. These new tax exemptions of EUR 615 million have retroactive effect since 2019 and are added cumulatively to the package and other facilities in investment companies and portfolios, large-scale real estate management companies, banks, shipowners and large-scale shareholders, which are literally a challenge to the people. At the same time, the new tax scale in wages and pensions does not even make up for the loss of previous years. On the contrary, it remains in the biennial. What do the workers get? Just about 15 euros a month, when for 10 consecutive years, they have been ruthlessly taxed with the Government of SYRIZA and with the Government of New Democracy and PASOK. All of these 15 euros will become a leaf and feather, but workers will be invited to put their hands in the pocket deeper than indirect taxes on people's consumption, broadening the tax base, cuts in social costs, reforming objective property prices, increasing the carpets of ENVY, additional indirect ramifications by increasing the payment limit with plastic money to 30% of annual income, and making 22% for those who do not cover it, as well as for the various countermeasures provided for in the State budget for 2020. This is the most famous redistribution for which the New Democracy is taking place. The business groups, that is, to pay even less, about EUR 4 billion of total taxation, with people paying 93% of the tax burden. This reality is trying to hide the government with its poaching. The truth is that no matter how many poaching and propaganda tricks they are being recruited, the bill on people's needs comes out of nothing in the context of the economy and the power of capital. Two watermelons in a armpits never broke up. For the people to get real breath, they must himself reverse the terms of the game, stand up, dismantle any illusions and anticipation and clash with the capital, with their governments and claim everything they lost, pass into the counterattack, claiming not the crumbs of the businessmen's food, but the carrot, what he produces and steals a handful of parasites. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u592	You're welcome. Mrs. Tyloridou has the floor from SYRIZA and Kastoria.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u593	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of the government, what are you doing with this bill? With your left hand, you're writing tax reliefs. With your right hand, you get everything back from society. With both hands you give them to the few and the chosen ones, to those who supported you and supported them in returning this attitude. And I'm explaining. This is a bill which is being drafted at a happy time compared with the previous ten years of the economic crisis. Although we are now talking about growth in the economy, about changing the negative situation, about a new perspective, your bill is not good. And it's not good because his target is clear. It is a clear target that serves the minority of the Greek people and not to its overwhelming majority, not those who over the years have borne the heavy burden of the economic crisis. And if we look at it in combination with the increase in insurance contributions for 80% of the citizens, then you understand that we have a negative development ahead of us. The rhetoric of the New Democracy while it was in the Civic Anti-Civilization and the dibymbic announcements about tax evasion finally prove that it is not tax evasion for everyone. For example: Income of 20,000 euros and a child, zero relief. And up to EUR 20,000 from official ADAF figures, which the Minister himself read from this Step, is 83% of taxpayers. Your much-advertised low income reductions are 17 to 30 euros. Even these, however, come and are cancelled by indirect taxes. Gentlemen of the Government, Greek citizens are not only taxpayers are consumers and if you want us to have a fair burden-sharing, you should take this into account. Because on the one hand it is lightened by 17 euros, on the other, only by the increase in PPC's tariffs, you get more. In this effort, I will say that you may have really had good intentions, but it turns out that your intention was not good, because this attempt you are making is self-determined by the abolition that is being cancelled for the contribution of solidarity, is being cancelled by the reduction of the advance tax that was due, as we had planned in 50%, is being cancelled by the increase in the ETUC provided for in the budget and this increase is mainly for small and medium-sized enterprises. The trade fee shall not be abolished. In the agricultural sector you are going to take a cowardly step with the cooperatives, but this is still incomplete because it is not complemented by a comprehensive and coherent policy. I will say features in this area for the fishermen you are adding to them, and indeed to the coastal fishermen of the remote islands. You put a raisin from 100 euros up to 5,000 euros. So the revelation of hopes of the middle class that you have misled as opposition throughout the past period. Carbon the treasure! The middle class must of course be clear and what it is. But Mr Stavrou says, and he comes today to say that this is not something that the Ministry of Finance embraces, but it is a proposal that the OECD has made. Here comes Mrs. Bakoyannis, who says "I am not Stakoras, this is not the middle class" and in general there is a mix-up. One thing is a fact. The vast majority of employees and pensioners see no benefit. But some people benefit. Those who have an income of more than EUR 100,000, with the reduction in dividend tax, with the reduction in electronic transactions, which does not apply to those who have EUR 10 000, and whose electronic transactions represent 30%, which cannot, since neither rent nor housing loans are counted. And this is where a secret tax is hidden in this bill. For 22% you reduce the taxes on holders of corporate bonds. So it is quite obvious that you are talking about a reduction in taxation - in the budget you say that you are raising income from income tax by EUR 260 million - but since six thousand companies have taken the lion's share, tell us where your budget will come from with an increase in tax revenue of EUR 260 million? Will it or will it not come out of the majority of low and medium-income taxpayers? For many, nothing is predicted. Let us therefore say that - because I do not have time - this seems in your social dividend policy, which is falling from 700 million to 180 million, which reduces the beneficiaries of the one and a half million households in two thousand households. It is seen from the heating oil that boasted us by this Step a few hours ago by the Minister of Finance that it gives it, when it is clear that this is reduced, but rather we return to mathematics of the time of "0+0=14". It is a bill of bias, without a social perspective, but without a development perspective. I think that in practice you are also opening the lane between the rich and the poor and you are undermining social cohesion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u594	Thank you, too. Go to the south, to Elijah, because I'll be back in Imphaia. Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u595	Mr President, those who are not here are deleted?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u596	No, they're going tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u597	Tomorrow. Whoever I don't see inside doesn't even call him. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u598	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is taking place at a very favourable time for our country. This is the first time since 2004 that has created a new dynamic for the Greek economy and has achieved this within four months the Government of New Democracy. We have restored our confidence and credibility and created a positive climate for the potential of the Greek economy, which is reflected in the growth rate, in the strengthening of consumption, exports and investment. Today, then, we are trying to make a new development leap through a bold fiscal reform that has one question: the relaunch of the Greek economy. It is also a question of our great commitment to the Greek people to implement a tax policy with a strong reformist mark, a tax policy that will not be binding on hooking, collecting reasonable, micro-particular or syndicated interests of the past, but modern and extroverting, creating opportunities for all citizens, a tax policy that is not introverted and hostile but which is friendly to attracting new investment funds, a tax policy which is not unfair and avengeous to households and businesses, but favourably and fair to all layers of Greek society and especially economicly vulnerable and socially weak groups of citizens, such as families with children and people with disabilities, farmers and the unemployed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to three main aspects of this reform, which demonstrate the intersection of today's bill. Firstly, we reduce the tax burden for households and businesses, and in particular we move towards reducing the corporate income tax rate from 28% to 24% for 2019, thus strengthening small and large enterprises. We are introducing an import rate of 9% for natural persons, professionals, farmers, employees and pensioners from 22% today, and we thus favour not only those who have an income of less than EUR 10,000, but all the taxpayers, since their income is scrupulously taxed. At the same time, employees and pensioners in the income category from EUR 12 000 to EUR 18 000 will have a tax reduction from EUR 80 to EUR 200, while the average free trader will have a tax reduction of up to EUR 1.300. We establish a low tax rate of 10% for agricultural cooperative schemes, with the aim of alleviating them from tax burdens, while at the same time developing the primary sector of the Greek economy by setting up new agricultural schemes. At the same time, we adapt the income tax reduction based on the number of children, we apply reduced VAT rates to support vulnerable groups and strengthen social protection. We are increasing the tax rate by EUR 1,000 for each child protected, regardless of the number of them. We exempt from the solidarity levy all disabled people with a disability rate of 80% or more, irrespective of the form of disability, and reduce VAT on infant species from 24% currently at the reduced rate of 13%. Through these interventions, it is the first time that no additional tax measures are imposed, but we are reducing the burden on households and businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, the second important axis of tax reform is transparency and tax evasion, and of course I do not think we need to make a special reference to the lengthy dimension of the tax evasion problem. With today's bill, we are attempting to expand e-commerce to limit state revenues. In this direction, employees, pensioners, freelance professionals and incomeers will have to make expenditures equal to 30% of their actual income by electronic means. At the same time, we are making considerable efforts to reduce the bureaucratic burden on tax administration and business, while benefiting taxpayers, because we have reached a point where tax authorities and services themselves are suffocating. And that does not benefit neither the state nor the citizens and businesses. So, with a view to unloading tax administration, we are, firstly, going on with the one-off of debts of natural and legal persons of up to EUR 10 per taxpayer, tax-free over five hundred thousand taxpayers who will again be able to issue tax information with what this means for their economic activity. In the same logic, we allow businesses to delete amounts of late payment from customers totalling up to EUR 300 per debtor, without having to have previously exercised all the legal procedures for their recovery, since in most cases the cost of the procedure is higher than the amount of the debt. And I come to the great bet of our tax reform, but also the great challenge for our country's economy, which is to motivate investment and attract investment funds. And this great bet is achieved by simplifying taxation legislation, and we are introducing an alternative way of taxing foreign income by paying an annual flat-rate tax annually in the case of investments of more than EUR 500,000 over three years. At the same time, the rate of tax on dividends from 10% to 5% is reduced and we provide for exemption from income tax and for the interest on corporate bonds quoted on a regulated market. We are trying to streamline the method of taxation for investment companies, as well as companies that invest in real estate, real estate funds and portfolio investment companies. Through these interventions, we encourage investment, by attracting considerable funds, by boosting employment and creating conditions for development for local communities. Our aim is to make Greece a friendly and attractive country to foreign and domestic investors, creating growth prospects for both urban centres and our home regions. Our vision is to create a new investment and economic environment that will create opportunities and opportunities for households, entrepreneurs and the new generation. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government serves a policy that is well known, but also believes deeply. This is a modern and extrovert policy for our country. Our society is ready for the great reforms that the country needs. The Greek people trusted us so that we could move on to the necessary areas. Faithful to this philosophy, we are making progress in implementing our commitments to a strong Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u599	Thank you, too. Regarding the dialogue we had previously, Mr Alexiadis and Mr Amyras, I am told by my colleagues that the parties have been notified, so those who are not inside are deleted. If he wants the president who's a better kid than me to accept them, that's all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u600	You told us another thing before.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u601	Yeah, you're right about what you're saying. You're right, I'm sorry, but they've been informed. We'll go by number sixty-six, and according to time we see.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u602	Mr President, make it clear. Those who aren't here, are they erased?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u603	Yeah. Mrs Karasarlidou Euphoria has the floor from SYRIZA and from the queen of the north, Veroia.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u604	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the tax bill with the imaginable title - that is true - 'tax reform with a development dimension for Greece tomorrow'. One would expect - and you were right to say this - that for the middle-class and small- and medium-sized enterprises, which is the backbone of our national economy, as you said - and you were right to say it, that you would be abolished or even drastically reduced, if not all, some of the twenty-nine unjust taxes of the SYRIZA, as you promised by election. Instead, the New Democracy Government chooses to give more than EUR 600 million, in other words over 50%, to large and very large enterprises. Even among businesses, the New Democracy seems to be aiming to help the large, indifferent to small ones. Because almost 80% of the benefit from lowering the rate from 28% to 24% will benefit only 2.5% of enterprises, i.e. about 6,000 businesses. Also, for 60% of companies that have no profits at all, there is no benefit. Of course, this draft law includes other benefits that concern only large companies and only very rich ones. In other words, it involves reducing the taxation of companies that invest in real estate, reducing the taxation of portfolio investment companies, reducing the taxation of real estate funds, reducing the taxation of persons with a very high income that is made tax residents of that country, and exempting the special property tax on a variety of investment companies. However, instead of reducing all the above rates, the New Democracy could choose to increase the rate of depreciation so that investment would also be strengthened, the abolition of the solidarity levy, the substantial reduction in the tax advance, and not to get it to 95% of the 100% that it is, the abolition of the trade fee. It is therefore clear that the New Democracy is absolved of what I said in the election on overtax. After all, how else could it be explained that the vast majority of employees and pensioners will not actually see any improvement. Colleagues, small and medium-sized enterprises will not benefit at all and any positive legislation, as the GSE does not benefit from it, as only EUR 20,000 to EUR 50,000 are granted EUR 17, but also a reduction in the tax rate of dividends that are in a positive way, is judged by GATT neutral, as it is only about 10% of companies. That is to say, which is indicated by the GATT - and I am reading just its text - is that the level and structure of tax evasion is distributed for the benefit of the highest income scales, be they natural persons, either individual companies or legal persons. In all this now, if we add the increase in electricity, the increase in objective values, the increase in insurance contributions and the reintroduction of insurance classes, the 30% increase in electronic income transactions, it turns out that the New Democracy has deceived the middle class. I would, however, like to focus on an issue that is more specific to farmers, which despite the reduction of the tax rate to 10% for agricultural cooperative schemes, its non-extension to cooperative farmers, as planned by the previous government, by the SYRIZA Government, makes this positive metro to be of no importance to the rural world. Because the source of the problem - Mr Minister, we are from the same prefecture and you know it - that we have pointed out for a long time is the phenomenon of the black market in agricultural products, which is the cause of weakening, collapse and, in any case, of the non-development of cooperatives, and you do not take this into account at all. So the draft law for both the agricultural world is anti-development, because without strong cooperatives we cannot supply the markets in Central and Northern Europe, where agricultural products could be sold at better prices. We cannot feed tourists, who are consumers, the thirty million tourists who visit the country. Of course, there is still an extremely serious loss of revenue for the Greek State. Colleagues of the New Democracy I think you have been in a very great deadlock since tomorrow, with the expectations you have electionally cultivated in the middle class. The pre-election fraud - because fraud is - of the New Democracy for the Low and Medium Strips is becoming very clear with this bill, because the New Democracy Government had the opportunity to make it possible for the SYRIZA Government to make significant changes, significant reductions in the low and medium-sized strata. You do not lead Greece to tomorrow, as you claim in the title of the relevant bill. You are, however, driving it into the yesterday when with similar policies and others you led Greece and the Greeks to poverty, bankruptcy, the padlocks and the closure of small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u605	Thank you, too. Mr Alexandros - Christos Aylonitis from SYRIZA and Corfu.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u606	The islands are here, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u607	Long live Corfu.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u608	Long live Corfu. I have been listening for a long time to the speakers, especially the New Democracy. As a government, you must be a global phenomenon. Within four months you brought the tops down. Ships and planes carry investors to Greece, within the framework of the confidence you have built, within four months. You said the same thing three months ago. You said the same thing two months ago. Impressive!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u609	Negative interest rates.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u610	I'm impressed, Mr. Amyras. In addition, let us not forget that we have jumped to excellence. Excellence is the one that has led to growth. I have also heard the New Democracy colleague, Mr Spanakis, say that you produce politics, and we are not in a position to do so. And you create every day all these facts that you comment on excellence, diplomas, etc. In other words, it seems to me that you are creating a communication policy, using the media, to make black-white. You guys are great at this. I'm really impressed. Mr. Amyras, you are a majority rapporteur. Can we agree on this? Let us say that our policy is essentially divided into two periods of time. In our policy as parties, during the period of the memorandum and the policy that we conducted from August 2018 to July and you from now on. Let us not forget that both parties are conducting government policy with complete discretion. Memorandum policy implement. Why am I saying that? You will not accept my proposal. I'm just saying it because I heard you in the morning - saying that the SYRIZA government has been the most taxing government you've known since then. I don't remember when you said. As you said, I thought you were talking since we were released from the Turks. Is that right? Are you serious, Mr. Amyras? The most tax policy?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u611	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u612	Let's go down. I think that only for the party ears, for the party clientele you claim all of this. But let's go over to the bill because it's time. The positive course in our country's income comes from the four-month management of the economy by the government? The 37 billion you hear by the mouth of the former Prime Minister is a lie? You are all talking about a couple of 100 billion who, six to seven months of the previous government's term of office, have killed our country and for these 37 billion, you are not saying anything at all. Where did you get the money so that you could make a policy for the return of the surplus in the world? Where did you get that money? Four months? Three of them? The two? Is SYRIZA gone? Did he disappear by magic? But are these serious things? I'm sorry to insist on that, but she's not disciplined in any sense. I think I'm using logic, too. Maybe I'm overreacting. I'm going to tell you something else that made me very impressed. You say you want to do everything possible to tax people to lead Greece to growth. The day before we were discussing the mediation plan, dear friend Blondopoulos. When did that parliamentary amendment put us in the courts of 1% of the judiciary that had been abolished? In other words, there is a property of great value, say 250,000. The charm is 2,500 euros. Isn't that a tax policy? You're up all the lawyers. Your tax bill is a tranquil demonstration of what I'm saying. It is impossible to hide your great passion to serve the great economic interests to which you also owe your election success. This whole bill proves a line to your goal. What's the target? The redistribution of income has all been said in favour of the few major economic interests. And business. Remember what the various journalists and journalists were saying when you won the election. That SYRIZA lost because he didn't support the middle class. But I don't see pleasant surprises about the middle class. Citizens will see this in their clearing houses. We'll talk again. I hope, Mr Amyras, that I particularly like you to be a majority rapporteur again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u613	Please address this House. You've taken him single.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u614	Let's lighten up the conversation. So I think your promises to pensioners are jujufias. I think you deceived them. Let them respond to it, as I have said before, for tax obligations to be cleared. Close psalm. Minister, we all remember that you have set your party's top priority in an election on the catchy political issue of civil security. And what you did not vote for until today. And what you didn't do to establish the doctrine of state and order. You also did the same for the protection of private property, as for four and a half years SYRIZA held the private property, did not protect it and had left the country unprotected. But all at the moods of your communication campaign. You're saying lower taxes for the middle class. You claim that the middle class has been solved by overtaxation and that it has shown the Government of New Democracy to be able to be relieved. But that is not the case with the bill. To go beyond the middle class, that is to say, to the economically weaker people who from overcrowding and budget seem to be going up to 20 euros in their pockets. While in the pockets of the upper financial layers of 400 euros or more. A number of Members have spoken on this matter. I don't want to go on with it. I see it's been a while, and that's why I'll be done. All of the SYRIZA colleagues who went through here were not wrong about their views. Let me tell you. Is it unfair to claim it when you choose not to reduce the advance payment of the 50% tax? Prepayment of the tax. When choosing not to abolish the solidarity levy for incomes up to EUR 20,000 and to reduce it for greater incomes? When you choose not to reduce the tax on cooperative farmers? When choosing not to reduce the income tax of permanent residents with a population of up to 3,000? In my county, we have the intersectional islands. We've got the Paxes. There's nothing there. And we spoke here the other day with Mr. Besiropoulos on a timely question about the Ottomans, Mathraki, Erikusa. To see what these islands are pulling with twenty and thirty inhabitants now. We don't have to take care of them at all. I'd written a lot. I shall end with the following phrase. Who has adopted populism to the full extent, and who is now trying to obscure the truth? I would like to close by saying that for you the phrase that my friend, Takis Haritou, said before applies to some speakers, 'a bit to many and a lot to a few'. Too bad, because this people hurt a lot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u615	Thank you, too. We're continuing with the cavalier Mrs. Sultana Eleftheriad from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u616	Thank you, Mr President. I have been in this Chamber since this morning, and I have heard almost all the MPs and what the ministers of the New Democracy have said. You have all spoken of consistency of words and works. So I see no consequence in this bill. I see that not only do you not do what you promised in the election but above all do things that you did not say you were doing in the election. That's not a consequence. This is a deception of the Greek people. It seems that today, too, you have forgotten that you have been holding elections and that you are a government. In particular, instead of giving direct answers to the SYRIZA rapporteur, Alexiadis, and instead of trying to discuss with the SYRIZA parliamentary representative, Mr Tsakalotos, who well invited him to discuss all the amendments together, he preferred to oppose the SYRIZA and not answer anything. It is a shame because I sincerely believe that, in bills which may affect the entire Greek people as drastically as possible, there should be 'parliamentary cooperation' as possible. Anyway, the tax bill obviously makes tax relief. But who's he doing to? Let's see. And if I do something wrong, since I'm not an economist, please, Mr. Amyras, who is almost the only one I see in this Chamber, to correct me. So you say a reduction in the tax rate from 22% to 9% for incomes to 10,000 euros, since they certainly catch the 30% target of their incomes by electronic transactions. You are no doubt that the Scientific Service of the Parliament said that forcing someone to spend 30% of their income either in cash or in electronic transactions is unconstitutional. What's he doing for middle-income? Whatever view we accept is that it is the middle-class, whether Mr Stakoura or Mrs Bakoyannis, the middle-class certainly has an income of more than EUR 10,000. So, what's he doing about medium-income? They are taxed from EUR 2 to EUR 20 per month, i.e. 60 minutes per day. In many cases, tax relief is zero. For example, an employee with a child and EUR 20,000 annual income has zero tax relief. Who's won? Those with an income of more than 100,000 euros. For example, a businessman of EUR 110,000 a year, a benefit of EUR 1,200, and indeed, the threshold for the electronic transactions that the person who has EUR 100,000 has to make is EUR 20,000. So he's under 30%. Isn't that right? So for one who has up to EUR 10,000, he must make electronic transactions of 30% of his income, for one that has EUR 110,000 or more, he must make online transactions of EUR 20,000. I think that doesn't favour middle-class. As far as businesses are concerned, you say that from 28% the tax will be 24% for the incomes of 2019. But what business is it about? You are using EUR 616 million for 2020, that is more than 50% of your development assistance, to tax large companies. In particular, EUR 541 million 80% of the benefit relates to only six thousand enterprises, that is, 2.5% of the Greek businesses. 40% of the benefit relates to two hundred and fifty companies, that is, only 0.07% of the companies in Greece. In other words, it does not concern all the other companies, small and medium-sized enterprises and, above all, all the companies in the province. In my region, I believe that your tax relief relates to three or four companies with a certain amount of benefit, which will change their economic path. That's what I mean. You are reducing the rate of dividend tax from 10% to 5%, giving EUR 75 million from your development interventions and losing the public revenues of EUR 75 million from this regulation alone. Who's this about? It concerns 10% of Greek enterprises and only facilitates the redistribution of incomes among the shareholders. Certainly, therefore, it is not about middle-class. A 10% tax rate on agricultural products: you say it and say it again in the morning. You fail to mention that it is not about natural persons. The reduction of the tax rate on natural persons 9% to 10,000 euros brings tax relief to up to 173 euros a year, but ultimately only 6% of farmers. So you turn your back on 94% of farmers. Aid for workers: you say, therefore, that you have brought pro-working arrangements to rationalise the method of taxation of options for acquisition of shares. They will, you say, be taxed at a rate of 15% of the buyer's independent income. That is what you say it is in favour of workers. Do you know many companies in Greece that give their shares to their employees? I personally don't know anything in my own region. So the first concerns the reduction, that is to say the shareholders. Overall, it is a given one and it is objectively acceptable to everyone that your policy is affecting workers' employment rights, which will appear very soon. As far as the favourable regulation for the acquisition of the insurance policy is concerned, it is positive, but you are actually golding the pill to those workers who will be fired from today and over the next period of your governance, from the big companies you favour, from the banks and I do not know where else they will be fired, but they will be fired for sure. Family support: a rise in the tax of EUR 1,000, you say, a protected child. You forget to mention in all your speeches that for the first child it is EUR 364, which even falls for those who have an outrageous income of EUR 12 000. For infants and for helmets you are reducing VAT - and I saw you on the news you said you would buy a helmet, too - well, but it does not solve this economic problem of the middle class. Increase the doses, set from twelve to twenty-four, and in some cases forty-eight, forget to mention that the imputed income is taken into account to calculate the tax capacity rather than the real one. To attract capital and foreign investment: not to say that the country is turning into a laundry, that you are not telling us where the funds are coming from, there will be no control, no trafficking in drugs, people, tax evasion, we will not know that. Facilitate economic fraud and tax fraud by reducing the time when the offences are stopped and by facilitating the release of accounts and assets. For the suspension of VAT on buildings and for the suspension of taxes on goodwill to say again that it concerns people who can buy two and three homes, because in any case in the first place there is no VAT. Also, contractors have already paid VAT and to take him back will increase the commercial values of the properties, which the Panhellenic Real Estate Owner Federation says, which says there is no tax relief bill for the middle class. What GSEW said about taxation is none of your business. SYRIZA doesn't say so, says the General Confederation of Professionals, Crafters, Traders of Greece, who in no way favours your bill as medium-sized enterprises and craftsmen. For the letter of protest, for fishermen, I also do not hear anyone say anything, that the coastal fishermen sent you a letter. Neither did Mr Lazarides, who is in my constituency and obviously did not know the profile of coastal fishermen, as he said coastal fishermen celebrated. For all these reasons, therefore, we will vote against today's bill at first because it contradicts the expectations of the Greek people and actually favours and reinforces the great incomes once again. It's a classic difference between us, which you don't feel like overcoming, as it turns out to be in any of your bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u617	Thank you. Mr. Armalene has the floor. We should wish him a lot for his feast for years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u618	Mr President, thank you very much for your wishes, like all my fellow Members, and to wish the Nikos, Nikolettes and those who celebrate tomorrow's joy, health, happiness and see better days as a country. That's worth it. If you noticed the speakers this morning was a bar of neo-democrats, and now it's a SYRIZA bar. But you've lost, because now he's got a better viewing. In the morning at 11: 00, 12: 00 who sees? The housewifes listen to radio, they don't watch TV. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that this bill, the tax, together with the budget, together with the development law, shows exactly the government's central philosophy. And the central philosophy of the government is indeed a neoliberal economic policy, because, as we all say, it gives a lot to the few and a few. This is precisely the recipe for neoliberalism and, unfortunately, because in many countries this recipe has been applied in the past, by the United Kingdom of Mrs Thatcher and others, you see that too much has been revised since then. It is an obsolete model, which does not lead to growth for all and with well-paid jobs, as you say. Because, first, there is a selective development from those you serve as friends and they choose where to grow. They do not come into the logic of a coherent, development plan as we did, which was a comprehensive plan, which we said was a fair and sustainable development, but we had a national development strategy. If you open the Ministry of Development's website in April 2019, there is really such a coherent development strategy, which we followed literally. So, apart from selective growth, you have poorly paid jobs, because all the bills you bring now - and PPC the other day, but also Mr Brutsis's provisions - are pushing the world into unemployment. The redundancies are sure to increase. I fear that, on the basis of the figures from the 'ERGAN' in October - which we had spoken about here days ago - they showed a great increase compared with 2018 on redundancies. The same applies to poorly paid jobs. For new entrants, you say, not only for PPC but also for all other sectors - by the way, you are also abolishing the PPC for organisations, etc. - that these posts will be the minimum wage, which you certainly do not increase, as we had budgeted. We increased him to 650, in the first phase, and in our programme it was another 15% for the next two years. So growth for all with well-paid jobs is growth for a few with poorly paid jobs, as opposed to what we have said about fair and sustainable growth. We had a coherent plan and, on the basis of this plan, we also budgeted the 2019 measures, after leaving the memorandum in August 2018, which we gave in two instalments. The Greek citizens simply did not have time to appreciate the value, because the elections were immediately after May. So, they didn't make it. Also, these measures that you are now canceling - the tax advance, 13% on 11% on the islands that another colleague said, under three thousand inhabitants, the islands that we would abolish under a thousand inhabitants, the solidarity levy, etc. - all these measures, then, were integrated. That is why we have tabled amendments. We didn't say 28% would be 24%. We said 28% to be 27%, since 2019. 27% to become 26% and 25%. Because, of course, we also wanted to strengthen businesses, but by ensuring a budget area that would go to the great mass of the majority of people. Of course, you're doing some tax relief. I won't say that you're not doing any tax relief. For both EUR 2 to EUR 20 per month is tax relief. For freelance professionals, the self-employed are larger because you put them and 9% under 10,000 income. But that's not a middle-class service. I do not know if it is Mr Stakoura's 6,500 atomic income, which reaches up to 20,000 family or Mrs Bakoyannis's 1,500 per month, that you can make it clear, but in any case, up to 20,000 you have a 22% rate, the one that already existed. You're not putting him down at all. And up to 20,000 is the big mass of the country's social categories. Workers, pensioners, farmers, small businessmen are in these contexts on the basis of statements. Others "blacks". What happens with blacks is another story for which we all have a responsibility and a duty. With electronic transactions, however, which you say you will combat tax evasion, in essence, while it is a positive measure as a starting-point, you do not fight it because you only find it difficult for small and medium-sized incomes to pay 30% by electronic transactions when they have an income of 10,000 or 12 000. On the other hand, you put the 20,000 ceiling on expenditure. So the guy who has 80,000 or 60,000 is very easy to spend 20,000. It has no problem - it is well covered - or it can cover 1/3, in any case. Well, because time has passed, and although as a holiday I could eat and half a minute, I will finish by saying that this development is not growth, neither fair nor sustainable. It does not distribute wealth in a fair way and does not guarantee sustainability that is not enough to be incentives for electric cars. That is right, but from there on it is a whole concept of sustainable development. It's a productive model and a consumer. You, Mr. Amyras, come from places you've defended these models. Now you've changed. I don't know if you'll change New Democracy or change your New Democracy. In any case, the productive model is an entire philosophy and it is naturally about climate change. That is precisely what we, in the context of the strategy that we have drawn up, are preparing with our new programme, which we will vote on at the conference in spring 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u619	Thank you, too, many years. Mr. George Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u620	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to point out that the title of the bill which is being discussed: 'Forum Reform with the Development Dimension for Greece of Tomorrow', reminds us of an advertising campaign. Like also the title of the Ministry of Development: "I invest in Greece" and he refers to an advertising campaign. These titles, I would say, correspond to the communication aims declared by the New Democracy Government in order to hide the essence of its policy, which is nevertheless reflected in the content of the draft law. This is not only the support of the few and strong ones at the expense of the large social majority and the strengthening of specific interests represented by friends of business groups who are concerned with the New Democracy. In particular, the tax bill as a development tool reflects the New Democracy's philosophy of development and is a follow-up to the development bill known to be a set of anti-government arrangements, arrangements for strengthening non-productive sectors of the economy and, in particular, more or less photographic provisions. The development model he describes comes from a long time ago. It is the well-known tested recipe, which has been tested and failed, with emphasis on the possibility of accumulating rather than investing, the possibility of employing cheap and consumable workers. Moreover, the tax bill being discussed does not perform a redistributive role of social law. Most of the reductions are directed at large profitable enterprises, while there are aggregations of provisions on tax exemptions to natural persons with very high incomes. Because the major winners of the tax bill are the large profitable businesses and the individual incomes of more than EUR 100,000 per year declared by less than 1% of taxpayers. Large profitable enterprises and high incomes benefit from regulations such as the reduction of corporate and dividend tax, the reduction of the maximum rate of income tax for natural persons, the reduction of corporate property investment tax, the reduction of real estate taxation, the reduction of natural persons with very high income that become tax residents of Greece and the reduction of the necessary electronic transactions for the most prosperous, when the remaining ones are increased. Let us remember here that the report by the Scientific Office of the Parliament states that the relevant provision infringes Article 78 of the Constitution. However, even if it is not regarded as a tax, it is a penalty which is in breach of the principle of proportionality in this case. We have a reduction in taxation on corporate bonds holders, exemptions from special real estate tax on a variety of investment companies and the legalisation of favourable schemes for larger companies, for corporate executives receiving additional cash benefits or in kind. These provisions clearly concern a small part of society, which is less exposed to precariousness and poverty. It is true that from the sum of EUR 550 million, which the government costs to reduce the corporate tax rate from 28% to 24%, the amount of around EUR 450 million is about six thousand enterprises, which means that over 80% of the reduction is about 2.5% of the business. No benefit to the others. In this context, tax exemptions concern the strong ones, and all they achieve is to increase wealth, by strengthening social inequalities, for which even systemic organisations, such as the OECD, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, say they are a brake on economic development. However, even those reductions or reductions are not directed to the large and powerful are being cancelled, since they are almost at the same time promoting additional charges. A 22% hidden tax for those who cannot collect 30% of their income in electronic transactions, which is extremely high, increases in electricity prices and, of course, the forthcoming increases in insurance contributions for employees and free trade. In this context, regulations initiated by the SYRIZA Government, including reductions in the tax rate to 50%, the abolition of the solidarity levy for incomes up to EUR 20,000, the cancellation or reduction of the HPAI to 50% for small and medium-sized property, the cancellation or reduction of VAT from 13% to 11% and the non-reduction of tax on cooperative farmers - natural persons and other favourable rules for medium and low incomes, are being cancelled. Electorally, the New Democracy had made its flag of reducing taxation for the middle class. Today a tax bill is passed, proving that the middle-class was used for the election needs of the New Democracy alone. In the middle class, moreover, we have to say that Mr Stagiras, the Minister of Finance, said that households are part of a person who is income-driven between EUR 6,294 and EUR 16,783, households with two people between EUR 8,901 and EUR 23,735 and three people between EUR 10,901 and EUR 29,069. The bill, therefore, comes as the application of the class division of the New Democracy and imposes the failed neoliberal doctrine, because it provides tax relief for the few and continues to austerity for many. In this context, let us repeat what the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Real Estate Owners and the GSEW, excellent representatives of the middle and small sections, say. POMIDA states that in vain property owners, the most characteristic and genuine part of the middle class, seek the slightest bit of tax relief under the provisions of the tax bill. And the GFCM states that the level and structure of tax evasion is progressively distributed for the benefit of higher income scales. These tiles are the favorable ones. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy, after abandoning what it said in an election about the destruction of the economy by SYRIZA and the fourth Memorandum, is now abandoning the medium-sized strata of overtaxation, which it itself had imposed on them, having been bankrupt with its allies before. Tax reform is neither development nor socially balanced. The only thing in which the New Democracy remains stable is its neoliberal ideal and its policies for the benefit of the Occupants and Occupants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u621	Thank you, too. We'd close with beautiful Katerini, but in the meantime Mr. Xanthopoulou, who is Draminos, asked me for the floor. However, with northern Greece, we will close. First, Mrs. Scouffa Elisabeth will come to Step by SYRIZA. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u622	And Pieria and Olympus and Katerini and Litohoro and Old Panteleimon.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u623	All Gods together!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u624	That's right. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill under consideration bears the very splendid title "Forum reform with a development dimension for Greece of tomorrow". Yes, sir. And before I stood on the title of another bill, namely the Ministry of Economy and Development, pointing out that it looked like an advertising campaign. I was wrong. What you do is use communication titles only to impress your inner audience, but in fact your bills do not bring reform, but only mix cards and various sums of money into the most unfavourable natural ones. And, of course, you could not do otherwise, because you would not get the figures and the other economic targets. With your election fanatics, bring yourself to the position where you now have to lie. Some examples of the poaching you are attempting in this bill and that, as one colleague said, with one hand you are giving the middle and low layers and with the other hand you are taking them, not only through the indirect taxes, but also through the bill itself. What is the poaching you're poaching in this bill? You reduce the first step tax from 22% to 9%, but at the same time reduce the income that corresponds to this step, from 20,000 to 10,000 euros. Result? Much less people can relax. Secondly, you nominally reduce the income tax from EUR 12 000 to EUR 20,000 from 24% to 22%. At the same time, however, you are reducing the tax reduction by 2%. It's not a pun. It's your text in Article 9. Open the bill to see it. Article 9, tax reduction. Thirdly, the same is the case, the same smuggling is happening for incomes of EUR 20,001 to EUR 50,000. That's not a pun either. It's your bill. So this results from the new scale and tax-free amount which will come into force from New Year's Day to no extra tax benefit for employees, pensioners, farmers, whose income ranges from 20,000 to 50,000 euros, the famous middle-class, for which you had been pro-electionally proclaimed. For this reason, I am tabling a detailed table on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Elisabeth Skoufa, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] But where you do not play with words, they will have real tax benefits, which in some cases, like those of people without protected children, start with 50,850 euros. From there and above are the social classes that you are generously lighten up once again. Any reductions from EUR 2 to EUR 20 per month for pensioners, employees and farmers, like the somewhat larger for free-traders, have already been eliminated by the increases in PPC, by the increase in the amount to be covered by the necessary electronic transactions, by the forecast for an increase of ENVY in 2020 by EUR 140 million in the budget and by the imminent increase in insurance contributions for more than 80% of the non-wages. As far as farmers are concerned, the reduction in the tax rate to 9% to 10,000 euros brings about tax reliefs of up to EUR 173 a year, but in the end, because of the tax voted by the SYRIZA Government, these reductions involve only 6% of farmers, not to mention the reduction that farmers will see in the advance of the tax, which will only be 5%. Happyly following our political proposal, a lower rate of tax of 10% is introduced for agricultural cooperative schemes and producer groups and organisations, but reductions which do not concern the farmers themselves. The fact today, however, is that Prime Minister Mitsotakis' very recent announcement of a discount on agricultural oil does not, of course, contain either the tax bill or the 2020 budget. Carbons the treasure to support primary production and air words! On the other hand, we recall that the financial margin you have is due precisely to the effective economic policy of the SYRIZA Government, as we have delivered the country with a sustainable growth path, with GDP growth at 2%, with debt regulation, with a EUR 37 billion pillow, with simultaneous fiscal over-come, an increase in investment, exports and private consumption, an increase in the minimum wage and a decrease in unemployment by 10 percentage points, from 26.5% in 2014 to 16.9% in July 2019. But you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, are currently making use of this financial margin for the benefit of a small business elite, of large businesses, of the very high incomes, which are your political and social support. For example, the taxation of companies investing in movable property, the reduction of the taxation of portfolio investment companies, the taxation of investment funds, etc., concepts, acts and events that do not in any way involve lacuna! On the other hand, you chose not to abolish the solidarity levy for low incomes up to EUR 20,000, not to reduce the income tax for regions with up to three thousand inhabitants, not to reduce the central VAT rate from 13% to 11%, and many others that SYRIZA had worked out and announced for 2020, which would significantly reduce the tax burden of the middle class and improve its standard of living. This is your policy, and this is a leading political and ideological opposition and confrontation, which today exists among the forces of progress, which have the great social majority and the maintenance forces, who are committed to a failed, millennial, neoliberal recipe, which, after four decades of international implementation, not just failed, but had the exact opposite results from what he promised. This is your policy, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, a few to many and a lot to the few and the most. It's a clear class choice, and we're across from her.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u625	Thank you very much. The floor has been requested by Mr. Xanthopoulou from SYRIZA for a statement. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u626	Thank you, Mr President. As a Parliamentary representative in relation to the Ministry's 117 amendment on one-off provision, I would like to say first of all that this document - because you are a government of the best - does not care for anyone, with these peculiar additions, the last-minute signatures and the sum gaps, which means that it has been written on the leg, not to say anything else. Secondly, with this amendment you are dispensing 175 million in two hundred and fifty thousand households. In the previous period, ruled by SYRIZA, although the economic situation was much more difficult and although many problems had been accumulated in the country in 2016, SYRIZA distributed 629 million euros to a million six hundred thousand, in 2017 it distributed 750 million euros to three hundred and fifty thousand and in 2018 it distributed 780 million euros to three hundred thousand. I think the comparison is catalytic and the Greek people will draw their conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u627	Thank you, too. And we'll close with Mr. Baraliacos from Pieria Prefecture from New Democracy. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u628	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me, before I begin my position on the new tax bill tabled and discussed today in the House by the Government of New Democracy, to restore the truth to a report of impressiveness, but also with false evidence and omissions, which was made today by the President of the Greek Solution Mr Velopoulos and touched my compatriots in Pieria. Mr. Velopoulos today from the Step of the House began his position, referring to a reply from the Ministry of Civil Protection to his previous question. I read you, from the Minutes of the House, what Mr Velopoulos said about the reply he received from Mr Chrysochoidis. "A non-governmental organisation in Pieria is carrying thousands of people to the area of Lower Milia. So I ask the Minister what this governmental organization is." And it continues "hearing the Minister's answer: "In October - November, so many people were transferred, etc., keep this, this NGO is not registered in the Ministry's registers." And Mr Velopoulos continues in his speech 'you tell us that there is a non-governmental organisation that is not legal, is not registered anywhere and carries people as if they were a travel agency and takes them tours, walks'. Here's what the Minister said to him and what is missing from what Mr Velopoulos said today. Mr Koumoutsakos, Deputy Minister of Citizen Protection, says: "In response to this, through parliamentary control, we know that during the period October - November of this year, eighty-three third-country citizens have been transferred to the structure of the Netherlands Milia Pieria," a thousand said by Mr Velopoulos. And the follow-up that also matters is important: 'when transport becomes coordinates and where vacant housing is found, taking into account the characteristics of the structured population'. What does that mean? That eighty-three left the structure of Lower Milia and within two months - October and November - eighty-three new people went, that is, the balance between the guests in the structure of Lower Milia is zero and Mr. Velopoulos talks about a thousand people. Second answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u629	Mr. Baraliako, you're embarrassing me because I'm from the Greek Solution and you're out of the question. And according to Article 66...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u630	I agree. I'm closing it right away, Mr. President. But I owe this answer to the Pierres who were very alarmed today and received many calls. That's why I got...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u631	Let him go, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u632	It's out of the question if you read Article 66. And I'm in a difficult position...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u633	Mr. Velopoulos didn't stop him when he was out of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u634	Minister, you're right. But I'm in a difficult position now. Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u635	For the non-governmental organisation, Mr. Velopoulos stops that they are not registered in the Ministry's registries. But the Minister continues, but has submitted an application for membership, which is in the process of examining the conditions, in accordance with existing legislation, etc. So we wait and we can't call it legal. These are for restoring the truth and an answer and a real briefing of my fellow citizens in Pieria. I come to the bill, Mr President. And thank you for your tolerance. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a few months after the vote on the first bill of the New Democracy Government on reducing HNPH and improvements to the process of integration of natural and legal persons into the regulation of the hundreds of twenty-dollar regime, two measures of immediate relief for Greek households, are tabled to Parliament for approval and vote on the new tax bill of the Ministry of Finance, the decisive step for the brave and imperative tax reform with a development dimension for Greece tomorrow. The new tax bill illustrates in the most tangible and unequivocal way the liberal ideological mark of this government. It puts dynamic and extroverted entrepreneurship at its forefront and innovates with shallow developmental provisions, while, at the same time, it extends and extends the social protection net to the low and medium-income, that is, the ones that have received the most powerful blow in the governance of SYRIZA. The proposed provisions of the draft law form the roadmap that leads our country to the clearing of growth, put it at the centre of the international business solid and clearly emit the message of the government without stars. The era has passed unreturned when the ideologies of the ignorant state of the criminalization of the business and the demonization of the investment gain dominated by the ideological hegemony of the left. Unquestionably consistent and unnecessarily committed to the principles and values of economic liberalism of the free market, tax justice and compliance with the laws, not only do we fear to conflict with what Greece needs and practices are committed to a morbid reality, but we speed up with a rapid and stable step towards the sweeping and parallel reforms that Greece needs. That is why, after all, our fellow citizens authorised us and trusted us with their strong mandate. Ladies and gentlemen, the new tax bill is a new beginning in our country's political things, after almost a decade. It is the first piece of legislation which does not provide for a horizontal or vertical increase in tax rates. It is barely in the opposite direction. They thus lay the foundations for the relaunching of our country's productive steam engine. The Greeks will finally start to produce again, to increase our GDP and create wealth. To this end, the reduced rate of taxation for employees, pensioners, farmers and self-employed persons at 9% from 22% for incomes to EUR 10,000, the increase in indirect tax on all categories of care for each additional child, the reduction in the tax rate for small and medium-sized enterprises from 28% to 24%, as well as a series of provisions on direct attraction for the protection of the environment at the same time are just some of the provisions that lay the foundations for the economic relaunching of our country and the reconstruction of the middle class. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This is a middle-class, ladies and gentlemen, which has been kneeled by SYRIZA government. And her invasion was a targeted choice. And that's not what I'm saying. It is clearly stated by its ministers. I would remind you of the statement by the former Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Juliarakis: 'The overtaxation of the middle class is a conscious choice'. I would also remind you of the statement by the former Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotou, who admitted: 'We were mistaken in predicting how quickly you can deal with tax evasion and corruption and thus smash the weight into the middle layers'. During SYRIZA rule, the middle class was subjected to an unprecedented attack. Targeted as a class enemy. More than thirty types of direct and indirect taxes were imposed or increased. I should just like to remind you of the increase in VAT, the abolition of tax exemptions, the reduction of 50% in the costs of heating allowances, new taxes on income, businesses, consumption, deposits, fuel, even in coffee, in wine, on the Internet, on computers, on pay-TV, as well as on hotel accommodation. What the previous government has achieved has no precedent. And they dare to shake our fingers today. We, ladies and gentlemen, do exactly the opposite. With the new tax bill, we give breath and perspective to those who have lifted unjust and unbearable burdens and we protect vulnerable social groups without communication fireworks. The middle class for our country, our democracy and our sidelines is the siege of much-conscious development. The fulfilment of the election announcements by Kyriakos Mitsotakis is an active and tangible relief to the middle class that has been so targeted in previous years. After all, it is the one that saves wealth, generates revenue, distributes income, moves the market, offers and opens jobs, creates positive psychology in the economy and taxes the state. It is the coherent link between low and high social strata. In closing my speech, Mr President - and I thank you very much for your tolerance - I can only welcome the reform of this bill. I join with all my forces with the Ministry's efforts to rationalise our tax system. Together, as our poet says, we will vigorously take the leap faster than corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u636	Thank you, too. The first five tomorrow morning is Mr. Bartzokas Anastasios from New Democracy, Mr. George Tsipras from SYRIZA, Mr. Vasileiadis Vassilis from New Democracy, Mr. Mantas Pericles also from New Democracy and Mr. Himaras Themistoclis also from New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-05-S1-commons.u637	With the consent of the House at a time of 0.59', the sitting for Friday, December 6, 2019-years, much in Nikolet and Nicos - at 9.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical debate and (b) legislative work, continuation of the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Forum reform with a development dimension for Greece tomorrow".
