ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the debate of the topical and urgent questions scheduled for today, let me first announce to the House the topical and urgent question report on Monday, 9 December 2019. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 269/29-11-2019 topical question by MP Larissa of the Change Movement Mr.Evangelias Lykoulis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Payas but unfairly the demands of those in music schools." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 286/3-12-2019 by F' Vice-President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on "Problems at the premises of the National Sport Centre (ESC) Larissa". B. PERSONS OF second-cycle Questions (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 288/3-12-2019 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Problems faced by classical sport in Thessaloniki and especially the National Kathantzoglio Stadium". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under No 282/12-2019, a topical question by Mr. Athens, Mr. Angelikos Adamopoulos, to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: ‘Rejection of candidates for an SAEP (procedures 1EA, 2EA and 3EA) to fill vacancies in special proceedings for failure to pay an offence of 3 euros’. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 807/20-9-2019 by Congressman I Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Nikolaos Friend to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Unforeseen access for children of refugees to education". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP I of the Radical Left Coalition by Mr Nikolaos Friends to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs about "Problems with the distribution of academic writings to students". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In a written document, the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that it will not be discussed due to a blockade of a Member or a timely question from the Member of the Radical Left, Mr Andreas Xanthi, to the Minister of Health. Also, they will not be discussed with the Prime Minister's agreement with the MPs or with the Deputy Prime Minister of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Manolis Synthraki, or with the question of the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and Mr. Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Georgios Lambroulis to the Minister of Health, or with Mr. 1279/15-10-2019 with the question of MP Larissa of the Change Movement Mr. Evangelios Liangelis to the Minister of Health, and with the question of the question of Mr. Corfu of Change, Mr. Dimitrios Biagiagis to the Minister of Health. So we begin with the debate of the sixth under number 280/3-12-2019 on the second time question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Difference of toxic waste on the water supply and the sea of Olympiad". On behalf of the Ministry responsible, the State Secretary, Mr Dimitrios Economou, will answer. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Undersecretary, we had storms, not terrible, in Olympiads, a hundred centimeters of rain fell. Nevertheless, we had a very big flood. The issue of flooding is one. The big question is, however, that this flood led to terrible disasters in the mining facilities of "Greek Gold" in Olympiads, paralyzing containers, possibly creating problems in the tanks and so on. This is a constant risk. And I would like to point out that the corresponding flooding in these streams that pass through the same point were also in October 2000, October 2006, February 2010, September 2011, October 2014 and December 2014. It is a frequent phenomenon and it seems that once again the company has not taken steps to protect its citizens. And it's very important because there's a bunch of violations of the law and complaints to the company. We have environmental inspectors from Genoa 2019 and then say that in practice, HYTEA Kokkinolakka operates without permission, the general technical specifications of the relevant CYR have not been met, the planned plans have not been submitted and that the company is rehabilitating the old-fashioned decomposition site in Olympiada without the approval of the General Secretary of Decentralised Administration. We have the act of attesting the violations of the works of Black Stone Olympiad, of Mandem Lakkos plant, of the Kassandra mining plant and so on. I'll introduce them to you more thoroughly in my dentistry. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Something's going on. He said last Friday that he disagrees with us that this mining must not take place. It believes that mining should be done, but with respect for environmental conditions. That respect does not arise. What will you do to protect human lives?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Economou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Both the Minister and the government are promoting the country's sustainable development as a whole. Sustainable development means environmental protection and weighting development. As a general rule, any development has some negative effects on the environment, but obviously there are also secondary positive effects in the environment itself, because environmental protection also requires resources in other fields, such as social, i.e. employment and so on. This is a very general context that I think very much everyone would agree, and the previous governments too, and I suppose the future ones too. On this issue, it is a large investment which obviously has adverse effects on the environment. Mining is a heavy process, there is no doubt about it. What does Greek legislation provide for in this particular case, but also in general? It provides, firstly, for the adoption of environmental conditions. Environmental conditions are provided after specific technical studies and analyses which pre-evaluate the potential environmental impacts, and the decision itself also provides for specific measures to compensate for or remove these negative effects. If a unit, an activity that is environmentally licensed does not comply with the conditions of environmental licensing, there are specific legal procedures through which the problem is dealt with. What are legal procedures? On the one hand, checks during the operation of the investment, which determines whether the environmental conditions are complied with and, if infringements are found, there are penalties. All of this is under standing law. In this case, exactly the same applies. It's nothing different. It is a large investment with many positive and obviously environmental effects. There has been an environmental authorisation since 2011 which expires in 2021, as it is a ten-year period. For all these issues, and for a number of other things, specific conditions are provided for. Checks shall be carried out and when infringements are detected, penalties shall be imposed. This is the normal procedure. Evidently, there are no violations of environmental licensing, no exemption of environmental licensing, not in this case in general. There are too many units operating. Where there are violations of environmental conditions, penalties are provided for. And in that case, that is what has been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u5	Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, when there are serious violations of authorisation, they close operations. There's no way they don't close them. In other words, if an undertaking is in breach of environmental licensing conditions, it can be closed, the administration can say that this activity is being stopped. This is where shops close because of noise pollution, cannot a business be closed when it pollutes the watercourse, threatens human lives and the health of thousands of citizens? Look, I'll repeat a little what the environmental inspectors said. ‘There are omissions in the construction of the waste disposal facility of Kokkinolakka. The sealing that includes a geosynthetic geological barrier of betonite, in breach of the CSE, which defines the use of a concentrated layer of aluminum of specific dimensions..." - and this is for insulation, in order not to cross the hazardous materials - "... while the downstream barrier has not been placed the predicted core with low permeability material", which also concerns permeability to the watercourse. They continue: "Product transfer to the port of Thessaloniki..." - is a matter for which I had also tabled a question from the European Parliament in 2013, which I will submit in the Minutes - "...is in breach of the CYR..." - the approval of environmental conditions - "... which provides for the transfer of condensation to the port of the Army or the facilities of Mandem Lakkos, as well as the considered Environmental Impact Study, where the transfer of condensates is mentioned through the Olympida-Pyrenees Provincial Road. Incomplete monitoring of the quality parameters of the surface waste and the surface recipient. The company shall compare the results of its analyses on output quality with the limits of the prefecture table, in breach of the CRL for environmental control. It also does not compare the results for surface water, as expected, it performs measurements of concentration of metals, not of total concentrations, and does not include heavy metals. The company discards liquid waste at concentrations above the limit of the Environmental Conditions Adoption Agency, causing water pollution and degradation. Non-lawful management of solid waste. It shall carry polluted soils with male pyrite, without a transport form for hazardous waste, shall not carry out release tests for the sanitary burial of its polluted soil.’; These and many more, only from 2019 audits. So the situation is out of control and we need to put an end to this activity. If you cannot control all these thousands of ways in which you are destroying the environment, the quality of life and the health of the people in Halkidiki, you must immediately close it. I am putting all of what I have mentioned in the Minutes and the question I have asked in the European Parliament on the same subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u7	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Look, I understand your sensitivity, it's justified. However, the evidence you mention seems to confirm what I have said. There are violations, checks and sanctions. Infringements shall not be such as to entail the removal of environmental authorisation. They are infringements treated with what is provided for by the law. If there were any infringements that would have imposed a lifting of the environmental licence, it would probably have been. Such infringements occur, there are penalties, this is the legal procedure, and in many other units there are infringements, for which the same procedure is followed. With regard to, in particular, the recent issue of the flood, now with the great rain - as you have said, you are right, it was great but not unprecedented, such rains are happening at times - the House of Environment Inspectors of Northern Greece has programmed immediately - next week will be - an autopsy to identify these problems, which have been reported by the press and by residents. It will become an autopsy and we will have a clear picture. For the past, however, there have been various infringements, they have been denounced, fines have been paid, at least earlier. There are also some infringements, in 2019, which have not been paid yet, because there is a procedure. That doesn't mean they won't be paid. So I do not see anything special in this case, apart from the targeting of mining, but that is another matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u9	We're moving on with the rest of the questions. The following questions - totalling five - will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, George Koumoutsaskos. Now we will discuss the first question by No 268/29-11-2019, first question by MP B3' South Athens, the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Mousala, Minister for Civil Protection, on 'Procedures on the management of immigration - refugee issues'. Here, Mr. Muzala, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u10	Mr Koumoutsakos, I am embarrassed because I expected Mr Chrysoshoidis or Mr Stefanis to be here even better, because the issues which I believe are very well known are not one of these issues which are primarily of your own competence. However, we shall move on to the question. I would like to start by congratulating you on your policy in the European Union. You are successfully applying the national line on promoting - as far as the results are concerned, we are not mad enough to tell you why you did not bring results immediately - the line that we have promoted since December 2015 in the European Union, and I am referring to the European Return Mechanism, which our country brought as a national line and everything was done with the help of Mr Avramopoulos in May 2016. I mean the asylum-handling centres, which should be made in other European Union countries in December 2015 and when we left the 'just to change Dublin' and put as a country his request for European asylum. Probably another question to discuss this again. I would remind you that you have presented a policy implemented since 2015 and continued it - and we are very happy about it - as an initiative by your Government. I imagine these are things they shouldn't, but they happen. I shall now proceed directly to my questions, Mr Kumucaco, taking into account the fact that they are not purely of your own competence. The first question is who gave the command to whom to build this center, to study this closed detention centre of seven thousand people, on an outburst, in Levitha. I don't want you to excuse me or explain it to me. Who gave the order to whom? No one woke up suddenly and said "Take an island on the map and fix this." This was done with a plan, I say, randomly, you can tell me, but we need to know who gave the order. That's the first. The second and final point is that we have in Lesvos a rejection of asylum applications for reasons which conflict with international law and the asylum procedure. There were no translators and instead of finding translators, they rejected the asylum. That's what we'll have convicts. Things will move forward and we'll have convicts as a country. I would also like to see an answer from the asylum office in this respect. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Kumucako, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u12	Yes, Mr Muzala, in the parliamentary process of answering Members' questions, as you know, the Ministry is represented by the minister who, due to the Minister's commitment, can respond. Indeed, the scope of my own exclusive action is the international aspect, which you mentioned. And thank you for your good words too. Mr Moussala, the day before yesterday, a full proposal was tabled to the European Council for a European refund mechanism with specific proposals concerning either the need for joint European returns or a system of incentives and anti-motors to third countries, that is what we call'more for' or 'less for', that is, the more you work together with the more help you will have, the less you work together as a third country, the less aid and support you will have from the European Union. We have tabled specific ideas for mutual recognition of refunds. It was a paper which was considered both by the committee and by partners as a basis for negotiation. I would like to say that it was not a simple initiative. It was a studied proposal that is entirely consistent with the priorities of Greece that it is seeking and demanding that Europe also have more refunds in order to get off us the burden of those who prove themselves cannot stay in the country. And this should be done in a strengthened European way. Other initiatives will be taken, Mr Muzala, because our aim is to strengthen our country's negotiating position in the face of the great negotiations on the Immigration and Asylum Pact which is to begin in the next few months by the new European Commission and there are already other initiatives. We will be present with constant interventions based on concrete proposals. And I now come to your two questions. Firstly, there is no debate - as you know - on the question of setting up an uninhabited island. The Prime Minister was here on 22 November in response to an oral question from Mrs Gennamas on these issues and referred precisely to what are those centres which are going to be and which are to be made. He said that we should definitely replace the miserable conditions in Vathy and go to a new one. He also said that in Moria, Mytilini, a modern structure in northern Lesvos will be built in another area in northern Lesvos, in place of Moria and Chios, which has already been installed in Kos and Lero. In other words, it had been designated by an oral Prime Minister exactly what our policy on these centres is. So there's nothing but that. Paper exercises may be done, but it's not politics. It is the government's policy that the Prime Minister officially defined a few days ago, as I told you on 22 November. With regard to the other issue you raise, you also know very well from your term of office and experience that the law - in fact, the law of 2016, your law - provides that the personal interview of the asylum seeker can be received when the authority which has decided that on the basis of the evidence available either he can recognise the applicant as a refugee - is now moving without the necessary interview - or when this procedure is not objectively possible and the applicant is unable, due to the young age or other obstacles, to be able to testify. In this case, therefore, asylum seekers were asked to interview in extremely rare communication languages. These languages, as the agency has informed me, are the soninke, the mandinka, the lelendin. There were no interpreters to interview these languages and so the decision was taken without an interview, but this is allowed, because procedural rights of the applicants were not violated or threatened. I would also like to say that under Community law, as you know, an oral interview is foreseen at any stage of the procedure. It's good to be in the first stage. If not done in the first, it can be done in the second. Therefore, the actions taken in case you refer to your question were within the provisions of law and law, your law of 2016. There was therefore an objective failure to conduct the interview, because the languages in which it was asked to take was extremely rare and it was reasonable not to have an interpreter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u13	Here, Mr. Muzala, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u14	Mr Kumucako, I honestly see no reason to reduce your joy at the four issues you raise in the European Union. I also see no reason to appear as something new, one after another. I have specific dates that have entered these issues in the knowledge of Mr Avramopoulos, the knowledge of De Mezier, in the knowledge of Asselborg. Nevertheless, let us stick to this policy that we have implemented and which goes on with regard to returns, asylum-handling centres, these four issues that we have put forward and which we have put forward, you may be able to promote as a relative with the people's party that has blocked them up to now and within the new situations. I therefore repeat that you are continuing in this area a policy that we have started. That's good, that's not a bad thing. And that's why I told you here and we're happy. I wish you could complete it. We have not been able, but every year since 2015 we have raised these issues. You will now allow me to disagree with Levitha. It didn't happen by accident. I am pleased that today - and that is why I tabled the question - the representative of the government says that there is no possibility in the government that huge detention centres will be built, of the seven thousand people, on landslides. I'm afraid this is your final design. Through the rejections you are eating because you have cultivated that nothing else should be done on the islands, in the end I fear you will end up there and then we will discuss your current commitment again. I wish this would never come. I'd like to tell you that right now you're not doing anything. In other words, in Samos - which you are right - you are going to complete a centre launched by SYRIZA, despite all the disagreements between the mayors and the New Democracy, where it will have in and out of detention, as we wanted it to have and it will also be a centre for identification and reception. In the other islands you do nothing. On the contrary, Mr Chrysochoidis has come and once again he has proved that, but you say every time you come out of a barbecue and make statements, such as that he will close one, he will close the other one, and you mean, and we do not know if the others are meant here or you mean it in the European Union. We are very afraid that a solution is being merged through the rejection of applications, through your own mechanisms, by your party's mechanisms and in Lesvos and Samos and Chios, and less by Leros and Kos. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Here we go. Nothing will make me happier than disprove my current position. I am very pleased that you have taken the courage of a clear position, as much as I believe that this position will be changed. I hope that you are not the ones who will find yourself in the difficult position of transforming it. We are opposed to that. We are also opposed to these closed detention centres for refugees and immigrants with seven thousand. Seven thousand is Xylokastro in winter, seven thousand is Amphissa in winter, seven thousand is Naxos in winter. It can't be done! I have told you several times, the problem is not the disposal of tough measures, the disposal of rights. First of all, you're ineffective. You say things that don't happen. Six times you've come out, what ministerial councils, what KYSEA, the national coordinator for minors, none of this has happened. Ten inland centres. None. Three centers you build in the south and you make them in spaces that we, practicable poets, have ensured that if necessary they can be exploited. You do in Ritchona, which is our place, the space that was in place - I do not raise the question of "my" or "yours" - you do in Oinofytas, you did in Corinth. I don't blame you for the circumstances, they'll get better. One cannot ask for this to be done within twenty days.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u15	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u16	I'll be right done, Mr. Kaklamani. Forgive me. You're not doing anything, Minister. I fear that you want to lead society to automation, which will increase racism and xenophobia. Through me, I would like to invite you to try to be effective for once so that our people do not give refugees and immigrants the problems that your own inefficiency creates so as to resist the xenophobia cultivated by your Government and by people of your government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Kumucako, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Muszala, perhaps you mentioned three or four times in the word 'inefficiency'. Who? You, SYRIZA. Look: This is not only inspired by the conviction of the overwhelming majority of Greeks, but is recorded in figures numerical and statistics on which the conviction of Greek society was built that you failed your immigration policy. Today, expressors of a problematic conception, point to the finger accusing a government which in four months has managed a crisis because of the willingness and feasibility of the Turkish side to exploit migration to promote its geostrategic words and purposes - and everyone knows that now and understand it - and blame us for ineffectiveness. Who? You who returned a thousand nine hundred people in three years. This is not a cubit for us. We have said that we will make far more returns. That is where our proposal to the European Union is to strengthen the return mechanism at European level, and I am pleased that you have considered it. However, a full proposal has now been tabled. Another one will be filed, as I told you. We will be tabling a proposal to the next Justice and Home Affairs Council next month on how Europe can be more effective in dealing with - grubbing-up I want to say, because this must be the objective - of the traffickers' networks. We'll do it all the time, we'll be there. The country will have serious and negotiating strength in the face of a very critical negotiation on European asylum and European immigration policy. You returned to the issue of the possibility - you almost certainly presented it - to become centres on dry islands. I've answered that for you. The country faces a critical situation, a challenge. It is dealt with and dealt with in accordance with the law and the needs to be shaped. The Prime Minister himself has announced from this step in this Chamber what is to be done and done. Finally, you criticised an issue that you know is national. You limit your criticism to a management logic. In management, Mr. Muzala, we will succeed. We also started in a week from taking up the duties of this government as a result of Turkey's policy on influxes of migrants and refugees. This situation has been tackled and finally with a very structured plan you will see that things will go much better into the logic of a policy based on respect for the humanitarian dimension of the issue, on human rights, but - something you have not done - and on understanding and supporting the sense of security that Greek citizens and the country themselves need to have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u19	We are now moving on to two topical questions, which are almost identical to two colleagues from the Mera25 Group. The first is the number 277/3-12-2019 third time question of the first cycle of the MP II Piraeus of Mera25 Mr.Fotinis Bakadammas to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "A case of police repression against students". The second is Question No 278/3-12-2019, Question No 278/2019, Question 3, by Mr. Aggelikis Adamopoulou, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Incidents of police violence and arbitrary action: the case of Irene Eminidou and Zesi Sourla". In accordance with Rule 131(4) of the Rules of Procedure, these two topical questions will be discussed at the same time, without, of course, limiting the speaking time of both colleagues. The Deputy Minister for Civil Protection will respond unifiedly, Mr Kumoucasos. Mrs Bakadima, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for being here on a very full day in order to answer our topical questions. I have been here several times and have asked such questions before, and I have been answered by the State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr. Economou. We are here to discuss once again an incident of police violence, an incident that took place last Friday outside of a well-known hotel in Kavouri, where a meeting was held on student issues, education issues. We had there a quite large group of students who, with their hands up, as the photos I will present shortly in the Minutes, without actually being a threat to the police, tried to cross the block that had been set up to enter the area. Without having started some attack themselves, as you will see, chemical and intense hits with clubs and shields were taken. As a result, four of them were injured. In the photos you'll also see a wounded student. They were transferred to hospitals, as they should, to receive first aid. My questions very briefly are: First, how was the decision to have such a police officer there for the purpose of safeguarding a private business, in fact, where this rectal meeting took place? Since the students were unarmed, and as the relevant e.g. provision is made, but the relevant law I will mention in my dentistry provides for chemical use only when the police feel a clear threat, without there being such an attack, how was the police officers who were present, the MATs that were there, given such moves? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u21	Mrs Aggeliki Adamopoulou now has the floor for her prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in the many complaints made in recent months about cases of violence and arbitrary action by the police, the incident that took place on the evening of 17 November with the objectives of Peace Eminidou and Zesi Sourla, who are members of the International Socialist Organisation "Open". Therefore, without having done anything worthy and without any resistance, they were attacked by tear gas from police plaques, which then escalated with reduced behaviours, irony, threats and insults, as well as blows to the head and body throughout their arrest and until they were transferred to the GDR. In the case of Surla they photographed both the same and the identity of his personal phones ironing with phrases such as "why don't you look on the camera, you're ashamed?" "Look at taking out some self-helf" and launched threats as "you'll see the MATs and you will worship." While some police initially told their colleagues "not them", their head said "they are, they changed things", giving the impression of being disposed of forensics. It is a fact that the police systematically arrest people who happen to be in the district of Exarchates and Omonia. The police tried to build the indictment. At first, they were referred to them for malicious action and for possession of explosives. The D.A., of course, wasn't convinced. The indictment came down, and they were finally referred to for crimes. Of course, in this case the indictment was drawn up by an accelerated procedure ahead of the lighthouse. So in the GAAP, the situation described is that they waited for more than three hours without any communication with their lawyers. They were refused water, communication with any person was excluded. One person, in fact, is suffering from asthma, and the police seized the drug. They refused to visit the toilet. As a result of the hits, the student, Eminidou, was injured in her right hand and she has been added narth. Let us say that one of the two students has been repeatedly expressed - and indeed by an article - against possession of explosives because it was one of the actions which the police attempted to deliver to them. They have been expressed, in other words, against similar practices. So the question is: What has the Ministry done to date to investigate any responsibilities of the police officers involved and how does it intend to act from there and beyond to investigate any disciplinary responsibilities and, of course, to promote a change in policy in the functioning of the police force and to deal with repeated cases of arbitrary action against citizens? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u23	Mr Kumucako, you have a double year, six minutes, to answer the question in the order given.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u24	So I should like to start with Mrs Bakadima's question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u25	As you wish, as long as they're both answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u26	The basic principle, Mr President, which governs the government's answer to both questions put by my colleagues, is one that is clear, is strong: the protection of the constitutionally guaranteed individual and social rights of citizens, and the facilitation of their exercise in the current constitutional order is a whole for the state and obviously also for the Greek police, an unnegotiable priority and an inalienable framework of action. To this principle, fundamental and unnegotiable for our Government, for the Greek state and for its principles, I have to add something more. Because you have spoken about the region of Exarchates again, can we agree here that, as institutional and politically bound by the Greek Police and the entire Greek state in respect of the law and law, everyone who has been moving all these years in this region has made it a region inconsistent with the citizens themselves? Can we agree to this mutual obligation of the state and the citizens? If we agree to this mutual and inalienable obligation, I think that every debate we have been discussing here, because we will have agreed on the fundamentals, the basics of the functioning of each democratic state. I'm going to the two specific points you raised. I start with what happened a few days ago at the end of November at a beach hotel in the area of Kavrou. There was, as you know, a meet-up. The police went there after a written request from the captains. There a group of students, young people, was presented, for it is not certain that they were all students, demanding that they enter the place where they met and raise issues. Do you know how many they were? They were about four hundred. They wanted all four hundred inside. When it was opposed to being able to do this with a committee of five people, as I think the logic itself shows - so it could be done, there can be no four hundred people in a hotel or there can be a conversation with four hundred people together - the reactions have begun. There were preconcussions, insulting against the policemen who were there. That created tension. Subsequently, the Rector of the National Kapodistrian University, Mr. Bulgarian Nikos, went out to meet the protesters who repeated the proposal, for a delegation from this group to see the fighters. His proposal was not accepted and there was tension. Two policemen were injured and three were transferred to the “August” to provide first aid. The competent department of the Hellenic Police is already conducting a preliminary investigation. You want to make an event in the context of the operation of the institutions a flagrant event alleged to exercise excessive state violence. The facts I mentioned do not show that. The police did what they had to do in full consultation with the Republican authorities, who had requested the police presence in writing and could not, of course, proceed with the requested presence of four hundred - I repeat - people within the meeting of the government. If we have previously agreed to the one fundamental principle that both citizens and the state must respect democratic function, I think we will also agree with the answer that I have just given you. As regards the issue raised on the incident that took place on the night of November 17 in the Exarches area, that police officers are alleged to cause physical harm to two persons, the Greek Police Office responsible assures me and informs me that a preliminary administrative examination has been ordered, in accordance with the provisions of the 2008 Law on Disciplinary Law on Police Personnel. This administrative examination has been entrusted to an officer of the South-East Atlantic Police Directorate in order to investigate the case in detail and to account for the disciplinary responsibilities involved, while, in the course of the proceedings, clear evidence of the conduct of an disciplinary action by any of the police will be provided after a sworn administrative examination, as provided for in the law. And I will agree with you on another principle, which - and this is our desire - is to govern the actions of the Greek police: there must be control of all illegal, irregular or inappropriate police behaviour. So that, in this particular case, as I mentioned before, is done with the preliminary administrative examinations. The service of the Hellenic Police will not be required by the basic principle that the conduct of the police bodies must be governed by the principles of respect for individual rights and law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u27	In the same order, Mrs Bakadima first and then Mrs Adamopoulou speak for three minutes each.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I'm starting with a thought on your last comment. Let us hope that this time the ETUC and the ETC that started will not be brought back to disciplinary boards that will be postponed lastingly. Continuing, you mentioned that there was tension, that tension was created, and that's how we drove to the episodes. I have the n.e.c. 254/2004. It's the Code of Conduct for Police. If you see in Article 2, in the third paragraph, it says that the policeman has to carry out his duties with self-government. So if the policemen who were there couldn't show her in front of some students, whose reactions might have been a little more intense, I think - look at that too. It is also stated in the same article that police personnel must apply the law with social sensitivity and never exceed the permitted limits of discretion given to them, which we have certainly seen is not the case. I also have in front of me an answer from the State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr Economou, to a question that I have addressed and to the ACP, asking me to clarify the legal framework for the use of tear gas, violent reactions, the use of shields, chips and other means. The answer, which you can also look for in the Ministry - I can also present in the Minutes - says that the permitted chemicals, which include tear gas, are used as milder means of firing. If we look at Law 3169/2003 in Article 3, which deals with the use of firearms, then it says that the parasitics, the police rod and the chemical substances are milder. I wonder - and if you can answer me - how the tension - because you mentioned something more serious, as did nothing more serious - justifies the invocation of this article. And I am also closing with a brief comment and a lot of interest resulting from the Secretary-General's reply that the use of the tear gas is necessary, on the basis of the above mentioned law and the n.e.c., in accordance with the terms of a ministerial decision, the content of which is confidential. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will need a minute, Mr President, not more. In other words, we have the police, the ministry and the staff, the GATS, to use a secret ministerial decision, leaving their ballots and unprotected, both the citizens who will suffer them and the police who will develop them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u29	We continue with Mrs Adamopoulou's dentology. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are delighted that the Ministry has carried out a preliminary administrative examination. We want to believe, of course, that this research will lead to appropriate findings. To this end, I would like to mention a report by the Greek Union for Human Rights. It mentions the fact that both the Citizens' Counsel and the principle - the national mechanism in particular - which is responsible for investigating cases of arbitrariness of the police authority very often referred to the police authorities to the findings of police bodies in relation to cases of police arbitrariness, because these findings were inadequate or contained contradictory reasons, did not properly use the evidence or carry out an incorrect assessment and assessment of evidence. In fact, in many cases, the investigation of these cases was entrusted to persons who did not offer the necessary guarantees of impartiality in drawing up the appropriate conclusions and in terms of yielding the responsibilities. We therefore want to believe that this investigation will lead to accountability, to accountability for the responsible police officers, and that it will not be another case of impunity, because it was supposedly not led to the conclusion that there are far-reaching signs of guilt among these police officers. I will submit to the Practical Publications, such as a publication of the "NATIONAL", which states that from the two hundred and ninety-sixteen cases of police arbitrary under investigation are being investigated, without any conclusion being reached. The vast majority, of course, is involved in police involvement. I will also present the interview of the two children, of the two students, in which they describe in detail the actions taken by the MATs, that they were beaten, all those actions that I described at the beginning. There is also a resolution, which has also been notified, which is a resolution of protest against the anti-courtagement of students, which has already been notified to the Ministry of Civil Protection. And of course, there has been a collection of signatures of support to the two children. Let us say that these signatures are from various trade unions, trade unions, students' associations, political organisations, not only Greece, but also abroad, as well as individual university teachers. So this incident, as you can see, has taken international - I would say - dimension. I would like to believe that, at the moment, the Ministry's care will lead to proper disciplinary responsibilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u31	Here, Minister, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u32	The last thing I have told you is that the investigations have started at the level that is being imposed. If such evidence emerges, the investigation will be upgraded and you can be certain that if behaviour is detected despite the law, similar penalties will be imposed. Would you allow me a general remark, though? Why is there always a doubt as to the submission of opinions on the real facts burdening the police, the Greek Police, an administrative structure of a body operating within a democratic state, in accordance with the laws, constitution and its functioning, and the doubt never touches those who seem to be moving to the limits of legal conduct, or often outweigh it? Why is there this intrinsic and incomprehensible doubt in Greece about what it is putting forward by a House that is controlled, is it obliged to move within the framework of the law and is it never the doubt to those who, almost every week, almost all the previous years in a specific 'week-end', burned and vandalised in a particular neighbourhood in Athens? How can the logic that moves its public dialogue from this point of view, the left wing of the Greek Parliament, be the one that always gives excuse, understanding and listens with caution to those who create incidents and never to the coordinated action of a Parliament of a democratic state? I have not been able to solve this question for too many years. And I close my answer with the following on the police measures you mentioned, Mrs Bakadima: the protection - I repeat - of the constitutionally guaranteed civil and social rights and the facilitation of their exercise in the current constitutional order is a key and unnegotiable priority for the Greek Police. I would like to point out here, however, that police measures are not specifically listed in the law. They are dictated by the circumstances, of course, in the context of the action of the police, with rational management of the existing situation at a time. I do not think that in the event of the hotel in Kavouri there was something that justifies such a strict and - I would say - destructive criticism of the Greek Police. And it's none of your business why four hundred people wanted to get into a space? Is that what you're concerned about? You asked these people, "Why didn't you, boy, just go five and want to go four hundred in there?" I say this because, at some point, it can - and we must - democratic dialogue in that country take place on the basis of a fair and equitable distribution of responsibilities, questions and concerns. The Greek Police cannot always be the defendant and the apologies, because respecting the Constitution and the laws is trying to do its mission in the best possible way, often under extremely unfavourable circumstances.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u33	We continue with the fourth with number 290/3-12-2019 topical question by Mr. Larissa, Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Anna Vageias - Kilaidonis to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Exercise the problem of trafficking, trafficking, use of drugs in the center of Athens". Mrs Vaguea, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for coming here today. I am sorry that Mr Chrysochoidis, the Minister for Civil Protection, is not here. I understand, of course, that today is a special day. It has to deal with students in the marches for Alexis Gregonopoulou's death anniversary and it is easier to deal with sixteen students than drug dealers and traffickers in the center of Athens. Although drug trafficking, trafficking and the use of drugs in the center of Athens are a major, as well as a time-consuming problem, it has little to assess. In particular, not only are the capital's central districts thus becoming a man of criminal activity, but in addition there are ever new problems that concern both public policy and public policy - first and foremost - personal security, property and living standards of these people. At the same time, there is also a major issue for public health. Indicatively: risk of infections, the transmission of diseases from syringes and other means of use. Besides, it should not escape our attention that the business centre of the circuit activity is located on the sites around and under the Omonoia Square, that is, ten minutes away from the historical site of the Acropolis and one of the most frequently visited museums in our country, the National Archaeological Museum. These images can have a negative impact on Greece's reputation and, at the same time, have a negative impact on tourism, as most tourists in Athens are moving right around these regions. Finally, the continued activity of traders- traffickers and users following them, in the central areas of Athens, can lead to a deterioration of the overall quality of life of residents and visitors, while favouring a wider climate of depreciation and abandonment of these residential areas. Activating these circuits poses a permanent threat to public order, the individual freedoms of visitors, public health and tourism. Many nursery stations, primary schools, high schools and high schools operate in the area, in which to take our children, are faced with these images, which can forever hurt their souls, but are extremely dangerous and can irreparably harm their health by causing severe infectious diseases such as AIDS, hepatitis, etc. For all these reasons, the Minister asks: What measures does the Ministry intend to take to eliminate the drug circuits in the area of the centre of Athens and to restore the level of safety, health and freedom of movement and the establishment of residents and visitors in these areas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Kumoucascus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, and I should like to welcome and congratulate your great sensitivity to a subject that is modern scourge in all modern cities in the world and not only in Athens, and which concerns and touches the lives of young people, who erod them and eventually destroy them. Therefore, every opportunity to discuss in the Greek Parliament, but also in the general public debate on how to protect ourselves and shield ourselves better as a state and society against this scourge, is welcome and even more when it is done with good intention. This good intention I see in the concern expressed in your question. I will not, however, leave anything you said in the beginning, that the Government, the Minister of Civil Protection today, is busy because they want to deal with students. Mrs. Vaguena, that's not true. This message is wrong. The state, the Ministry, the government is not confronted with students. He's with the students. They are confronted with those who will try to exploit the expression of today's feelings, concerns and sensitivities of students, to promote their own purposes, purposes and pursuits. The government is not against the students. He's with the students. It's against those who want to take advantage of the students. As far as the essence of your question is concerned, the Headquarters of the Hellenic Police and the Ministry - I have also shared with you the sensitivity to this issue - have taken into account the challenges posed by the drugs issue, have drawn up a programme of anti-criminal policy, which is a central point of reference and a priority for the Greek police and its services. In particular, I would like to say that in order to combat the drugs problem, the Greek Police have implemented a special operational programme against drugs throughout this period. The GDR, in the context of the implementation of the anti-crime programme, on a daily basis applies a grid of actions of obvious policing focusing on the prevention, prevention and coexistence of all forms of violations in this field in the dark field of drug trafficking. In addition, a new revised operational plan for policing the wider centre of Athens, which includes both general and specific actions, focusing mainly on addressing individual, more specific problems, such as trafficking in substances, dealing with blockage, street micro-criminality, etc. Under the order of the Chief Police Inspector of South Greece, a grid of complementary actions of a general and targeted nature is implemented. Finally, since the Headquarters of the Hellenic Police, it has been decided and implemented since 17 July, the creation of selected groups of a stable minimum composition, through which this mission is now being even more effective. With regard to the results of all these plans and operational actions and the operational capacity of the Greek Police, I would like to give some information relating mainly to the Omonia region during the last year, from 1 January to 25 November of this year. From the Department of Narcotic Drugs and the Department of Police of Athens, two hundred and twenty-two incubations were carried out, forty-four people were arrested for violating the relevant law ‘for addictive substances and other provisions’, different quantities of drugs were seized. Finally, by the Attica Direct Action Directorate and the Athens Security Directorate and the Omonia Security Department have been arrested during this period a thousand and two hundred people for violating the relevant Law 4139/2013, which, through their actions on a case-by-case basis, were brought to the Prosecutors' Prosecutors' Office in Athens. Is that enough? Obviously, it's not enough. The fight against narcotics and all illegal actions that operate around this circuit is a constant struggle, a constant request and a constant mission for both the Greek Police and the Greek state. So we will continue and want to believe that the results will be visible very quickly in the polypathic center of Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u37	Mrs. Baguea has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u38	First of all, thank you for the good words. It's not new to me, it's not opposition. Fortunately, Mr Kaklamanis, who, as mayor of Athens, has been very well aware of my efforts for years. I would also like to inform you that I had asked Mr Toska a timely question - when he was the Minister for Civil Protection - I was a SYRIZA Member. So away from me any such intention. Unfortunately - and I would like you to listen to me, please - for this whole story and, unfortunately, also for me, I have been resident and working at the Silk Workshop in the center of Athens for 20 years. I know, then, firsthand, not only as a Member but as a resident - that is what he says a lot - the situation in the center of Athens. I would like to tell you that I do not want to believe that the Greek Police are so incapable of dealing with the issue of drug trafficking and drug use. We, the inhabitants of these regions, cannot know about their small names of traffickers and dealers. This has been happening for five years. They're almost the same faces. We've developed a personal relationship. Do you understand? We come out of our homes in the morning and we see these people in front of our house doors completely selling to unfortunate people - dragging behind them, begging - drugs. We can't know them and the police won't know them. They don't even bother to change them. They've been the same faces for at least five years. If you come to our neighborhood, you'll see. It's eleven in the morning two at noon and six to seven in the afternoon. I can show you these faces. So I don't want to believe that the Greek police are incapable. I believe that there is no political will and efficiency. Whatever they are, they are the same dangerous thing, either the inability or the wicked cover in this case. What I'm saying to you - they're tragic images - I'm going to testify with pictures, because the photos speak more than a thousand words and the letters I've sent. I already wrote to Mr Chrysochoidis two - three days later. I have sent four letters from then on. I'll file the photos and the letters. There is a section, a piece, the Audi Square - which is a wonderful square, new and became in the municipality of Mr. Kaklamanis - which accepts a multitude of visitors. There's a road, the Akadimos street connecting Piraeus to Audi Square. And at the beginning of Piraeus there is a nursery station, the famous Chiller building, which is a jewel for Athens. Every day they pass through this street children, mothers, visitors, people, theatres, because there are theaters in this area. If you look at the photographs, Minister, which I will testify, you will be ashamed as I am every day of being a citizen of this country who goes through this street. I call this 50-mile long-term shame! Not only for this government, but for all municipal authorities and all governments. So I say, because your government has been trying to restore us the sense of security and regularity - which we did not have with the previous government - with the 'law and order'. What did the previous colleague say? We're gonna watch the MATs and we're gonna be shaking? I would like MAT to see and to motivate dealers and drug traffickers, not only the people you consider 'peripheral' in Exarchia or elsewhere. They must be shaking the MATs. There's your burden! And I would be very pleased if some of this effort were focused on them and not on sixteen-year-old and seventeen-year-old children. But drug trafficking and drug use are a case that behind it is of great economic interest, not sixteen and twenty-sixteen students and students, who are easy to squeeze. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u39	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Vageias, I understand, and I consider your indignation for these unacceptable images in the center of Athens to be a source and sincere. And it was sincere to say that your position in a surname you used, 'the timeless shame of a region', which, as you have also said, includes the responsibility of many governments, of course, of which you were a fanatical supporter, a member of a parliamentary group that has been ruling for four years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u41	I'm proud of that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u42	I'm not saying you're not. Four years, Ms. Baguea, in these fifty meters he had you as a Member of Parliament, who were pressing because you live there, why didn't he do anything? You must feel first of all a futility in trying to convince your own government. You're accusing us now. I recognize the sincerity of your sensitivity. And I assure you that, within our election mandate, this path of shame will not exist, as for four years it has remained during the government's term of office that you supported.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u43	However, Minister, because I know the region very well, it was lenient in its descriptions and descriptions, Mrs Bagena. It gets worse there.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u44	I am sure that all those who are involved in this dialogue - you who know more than I am, because I do not live in this region - in terms and pain are talking about this region of Athens. I don't live there, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u45	I don't live there, but I've seen her. Mrs. Vageias has the luck - because it's a nice area - and the misfortune, of the ones she described, to live there in this alley she said. And not only Mrs. Baguea.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u46	It made it even better for the square that's been done for your day.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u47	The theaters made the area nicer. The square helped.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u48	And because I'm a theatrophic, I know the area. When I find and unblock some time, I go there too to see a theater.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u49	Let us make a joint effort, therefore.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, I know it's out of order, but let me. I would like a time commitment, Minister. Why - look - these I've heard for twenty years from too many. I would like a time commitment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u51	You will allow me to speak to Mr Chrysochide and Mr Economou, not Mr Kumouchakou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u52	Unfortunately, however, he's not here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u53	They'll be here some other time. We move on with the fifth under No 279/3-12-2019 topical question from the second cycle of the Athens Parliamentary I of Mera25 Mr.Angeliki Adamopoulos to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Training structures in prisons - a school for booking Korydallos". Now we have to go soon, 'cause the bill needs to start in a little while. Here you go, Mr. Adamopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try to be short. Minister, associations of teachers, prison administrations and prisoners are strongly protesting about the collapse and non-existence of education structures in the penitentiary system. They delay the placement of teachers and training coordinators, the existing structures do not work, there are no new second-rate schools being set up. And the IEKs, as provided by the law, do not run the training programs. It is true, therefore, that women's prisons have not been in operation for years, despite the fact that a training coordinator has been placed. In men's prisons, too, no coordinator has been placed. In general, secondary education schools are under-operated, they are under-represented. Even the public IEK remains out of service. It is therefore stated that in many cases the residual and delays are due to the eruption of the previous selection board after the elections. Even the relevant provisions and procedures for the implementation of Law 4521/2018 have been suspended on substance, despite the relevant complaints by the National Commission for Human Rights. Given that Articles 34 and 35 of the Penitentiary Code, even the UN International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, and the Council of Europe Recommendation 8912 on Prison Education, are being explicitly violated, the question I have put is this: why are the provisions of the law still ineffective and do not go ahead with the relevant ministerial decisions on education programmes in detention stores and what does the Ministry intend to do in order to proceed with the implementation of the staffing and establishment of training structures in the penitentiary system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u55	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u56	There is a policy of upgrading the education of detainees in the country's detention detention centres. This is done in collaboration with the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs and on the basis of Article 31 of the Law of 2018. The title of the article, to have a clear picture, is "Strengthening and extending the operation of prison schools". As regards the continuation of existing educational structures and the creation of new structures, the process of cooperation between the Ministry of Civil Protection and the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs is under way and all the factors need to be examined in order to make progress in the right decisions and in effective implementation, in order to guarantee all the necessary educational upgrades to the educational level of the detainees combined with ensuring the smooth and proper functioning of each detention shop. It's not just a case. It must cover two very strong criteria and missions, as well as the adequate and efficient training of detainees, but also the proper functioning of detention stores. In this context, the Ministry of Citizen Protection has already taken the necessary steps and addressed the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs in writing, in order to establish together the full implementation of the provisions of Article 31 of Law 4521/2018 to which I referred. It is also our aim and aim that this case should be taken forward and that the prisoners should be given the opportunity to train, but at the same time, as I have told you, and with an orderly and straightforwardness in the operation and dispatch of prisons.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u57	Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are very pleased that the Ministry has already moved in cooperation with the Ministry of Education. Unfortunately, in prisons, even the penitentiary officials themselves have pointed out that inhuman detention conditions, overpopulation, repression, the doctrine of "law and order" are also dominated in penitentiary stores. We know that the aim of the sentence is not only punishable and resurrected, but above all, it is social reintegration and adjustment of detainees, as the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights dictates, which expressly states what the purpose of the treatment of detainees is. We therefore consider that the provision of specific education and vocational training programmes for detainees, as provided for in the Penitentiary Code in the articles you mentioned and in Article 33, and as provided for in Article 81(1), leads to the conclusion that the state itself must ensure that the prisoners are properly re-established and updated in good time, otherwise statistics have also been observed that detainees who do not follow appropriate programmes after their release are fatally released into the retreat, while those who have followed the programmes in question have finally fallen only 10% of relapse operations. We want to believe that you have committed yourself to your reply today that there will be proper staffing, because unfortunately, until now the appropriate school units have not been established, either primary or secondary. Second-time schools are down. So the state should finally get rid of its punishment and be geared to the humanitarian treatment of the detainees. But I would also like to say something to finish: recently there was a meeting of the representatives of the penitentiary shops with the permanent committee on the rights of detainees. Officials have said attributes that recruitment should not be carried out by the AACC, but should be under the supervision of the AACC. So I would like to ask, at this point, whether this flaw on the part of the government in administering the second opportunity schools also conceals a strategy for the degradation of public structures within prisons, namely whether this is how the ground is being prepared, so that the logic of privatization can even enter the prison area. We want to think we don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u59	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u60	I will be very brief, Mrs Adamopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u61	Anyway, most of you've answered it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u62	I would just like to mention - because I have it in front of me - two papers from the Ministry of Civil Protection. One is from the 25-10-2019, a few days ago, in October, entitled: "Available places for training in detention stores in which no educational structures are in operation", which the Ministry reaffirms the continued cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, in order to proceed jointly with the application of the provisions of Article 31 of the law that I mentioned before, of Law 4521/2018. The second document, which is an indication of the action and sensitivity of the Ministry, is dated 11 November 2019 and relates to the operation of educational structures in the detention stores of Larissa, Thessaloniki, etc. This clearly and in writing shows that there is constant care to move forward in this direction. With regard to this view, the theory, the conspiracy that there is a deliberate deterioration, in order to move on to privatisation, is repeated by SYRIZA very often too. Look now, this is a story repeating only dragons has, has no response and correspondence to government policy and targeting it, so don't find out or seek conspiracy where they don't exist. Our aim is to upgrade educational capabilities in detention stores. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u63	We are moving on to the last question for today. The seventh question will be discussed under number 281/3-12-2019 in the second cycle of MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Leave the use of a Dafni Monastery in the municipality". The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Vessiropoulos, will answer. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is a very important matter for the Municipality of Haidari. It is also a question of common sense, if you like. We have the refreshment room, the former Daphne tourist stand, which originally belonged to EOT and then passed to the Hellenic Real Estate Company. It is the so-called "GIOROTO". This has been claimed by the Municipality of Haidari for too many years. For 20 years, from 1997 to 2017, the use to the municipality had been granted. The aim of the concession was to act as a restaurant - refreshment and to upgrade it because it was on abandonment. That's what happened. For 20 years it has worked very well and has also been able to support the Municipality of Haidari, a municipality, which, as you know, has been facing major economic problems today. However, after 2017, this concession of use ceased and it even seems that there is a possibility of selling this particular site. The municipality has asked for at least the concession of use to be continued, and this is very important and because the previous contract was very fair and correct to both parties, namely, the objective of the contract was satisfied, and because the revenues necessary for the municipality, in an area of particular importance to the citizens of the Botanical Garden of Dimitrous and the Daphne Monastery, a region with intense municipal use by the citizens and also over-locally from all over Athens. But it is important and why such spaces on this main axis of the Sacred Road, this virgin part of the Holy Road, to be found in the municipalities and citizens more directly, gives - if you like - directity towards citizens. This is your beginning on many other issues. So you said about giving the Tritsis park to the region, so that the management would be closer to the citizens. So the question is: Do you pledge to at least grant the use of space to the municipality again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u65	Mr Besiropoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, the government respects the procedure of parliamentary control and the speeches, as you may have seen, come to Parliament and answers all the Members' topical questions. Even on today's day following the debate and the vote on the tax bill. As far as the substance of your question is concerned, you will allow me first comment on the Daphne tourist stand, which is not a public property within the Ministry of Finance, but is owned by the EOT. From there on, it is extremely interesting to see the history of concession that began in 1997. Then EOT, under a loan agreement signed in September 1997, granted to the Municipality of Haidario without consideration for twenty years, i.e. from 19-8-1997 to 19-8-2017, an area of forty-two thousand eight hundred square meters, delimited between the historic Monastery of Daphne, the Diomeni Garden and the Sacred Road. The purpose of the concession was to upgrade the area by creating a restaurant - refreshment and the possibility of organising cultural events by the municipality. In 2003, the Tourist Development Company, as the EBRD used earlier, approved the leasing, for the use of a restaurant and restaurant refreshment, of the tourist pavilion to a third party from the then Municipal Company of the Municipality of Haidari under three conditions: firstly, the sale of 5% of the contractual rent to the EBRD; secondly, the requirement that the Municipal Company expressly declare that it will grant and transfer to EBRD its claim against the insurance company in the event of the occurrence of the insurance risks, if necessary, to carry out the necessary formalities to verify and collect the compensation. Third, the obligation of the Municipal Company to submit to the ETA the relevant lease contract to be signed between the municipality and the tourist kiosk by retaining the right to withdraw the lease decision if it found that it was differentiating the lease terms in relation to the original terms of the contract. The question is that for the period from 8-11-2005 to 8-2-2016 a debt of EUR 57,552.15 of the municipality to the EBRD was incurred which was not repaid and this created the complex. The government's intention is to grant public property to self-government, provided that specific conditions are met, and we approach with a positive intent every request.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u67	Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much, Minister. Look, I understand that your intention is to regain concessions, and this is very important because at the moment the Municipality of Haidari faces a huge financial problem and this property, I think, can be a breath for the municipality. We do not want our municipalities to go into bankruptcy under any circumstances. But also for the essence of it, because it is just next to the Dafni Monastery, next to the Dimmedus Park, it is - if you like - the heart of what we have left of the Holy Way in natural environment, is the heart of the walk area and of the citizens of Haidari, as well as of people from all over Athens who visit both the Dimmedus Park and the Daphne Monastery. So I'm very happy for your initial commitment. I would like you to repeat it more explicitly because the truth is that it was a bit diplomatic at the beginning. Obviously, there will be a new request from the municipality on the matter. But it is an issue that will truly relieve the municipality, but also substantially protect the public character of this area at a crucial point in Athens, if you like, over-local but also of particular local importance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u69	Mr Besiropoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u70	Mr Colleague, as I told you in my prology, there was a matter of the debt of around EUR 57,000 of the municipality to the EBRD. The municipality did raise the question of extending the concession for twenty years, but there was the outstanding amount of the debt. It is a question of good administration that there are no such loose ends when issues of real estate are raised in local government agencies. The municipality has delayed payment or settlement of the debt. In 2017, in writing, he requested settlement of the debt and extension of the concession that I do not know why it was not examined by the then administration of the EBRD. He sent a new document in 2019 and my intervention in this case is that I have now asked the new administration of the EBRD to consider the request this time. I believe that a first positive step will be to regulate or repay the debt from the Municipality of Haidari. As I have told you, there is a positive attitude on our part to the requests of the Local Government to grant public property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u71	It's all good. Mr Arsenis will leave as a representative and not just personally. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. After a few minutes' interruption we will enter the legislative work, i.e. the continuation of the debate on the tax bill that went yesterday until one after midnight. Saying a few minutes, I mean until 11:00 with 11:05. I would ask the secretariats of the parliamentary groups to inform Parliamentary representatives and rapporteurs. We will also begin the speeches by Mr Bartzokas. Then there's Mr. Vagionas, Mr. Vasiliadis, Mr. Mandas. I'm saying this to be in time in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u72	There is another list of speakers, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u73	That's the one I got in front of me. We'll see, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Forum reform with a development dimension for Greece tomorrow". Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the Parliament, since they have previously participated in the educational program "Corporate of Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, seventeen students and students and two educational attendants from the 16th Municipal School of Athens. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Also, because today is a great celebration, it is all great celebrations, to wish many years to the celebrities and the holidaymakers, to all our seamen, and especially to me in our Navy and to his leader who is celebrating today. We are now moving on to the bill. The first speaker is Mr Barkas. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the festival of Agios Nikolaos, today is another anniversary, we honour the memory of a student, Alexis Gregopoulou. Like today, in 2008, Alexi o Gregopoulou was killed by the bullets of a special guard, Corconea. As today it is eleven years since the student, apprenticeship, neo-liberal uprising of 2008, when young people and young people in our country because of this murder managed to put various slogans in the country's social and political life, screaming against the crackdown, protesting for a future that was then filthy. And indeed, Minister, after two - three years our country entered the string of the crisis which for a decade the future of young people has been even more gloomy. And thankfully, we are now able to discuss how to shield our country from such crises in the future or the young people of our country from having voice and future. I think that the changes that are taking place at this time, which are being promoted by the Ministry of Education in terms of our schools, our young people and our young people, our students, unfortunately, are going on a gloomy future, a future bad for people. Minister, the debate on the tax bill, like any debate that comes in this House, is not empty, that is, it does not take place in a neutral environment. Today's debate is taking place in the light of the resignation of the former State Secretary for Foreign Affairs - formerly because he has resigned - who lied to be a holder of a diploma. The government tried through the Government's representative to pick this up a little. He said he studied, but he didn't finish. For the first time we heard such statements, that someone is studying, but it's not over, he's not a senior. We don't understand it. At least we don't understand that. The Government spokesman said that the matter was deemed to be closed after the explanations made by Mr. Diadiar. He is the second minister in the history of the Greek state who resigns in flight. The first was a PASOK Minister, if I remember well, whose son is now a Member of your Parliament, Congressman Patras. I think the government should explain why these inconveniences have happened for a week and why it has been so tragic. But, through this debate, another role has emerged, the role of media influence on the government and how media intervene on such issues. I'll say the following. First, we had the secret of the news. The media didn't say anything about the fact that a minister lied about being a graduate. At second stage we have media intervention, Minister. And that's the misfortune in the whole case. They request the resignation of the Minister and immediately resign. I think, therefore, that these things should be taken seriously in terms of democracy in our country. Because I said about the role of the media in the government and the interests defended, Minister, I do not know how to characterize this amendment - to describe it nicely? I do not know how to describe it - which concerns the PLO, the gift you make to the large-scale owners. And I'm talking about your bill. What exactly does he do? Why are you reducing the tax on athletes' contracts from 45% to 22%? Where will it help? Which OPE will help? Who's going to help? How do you think this amendment will have a development role? What exactly is this amendment doing? I think you should rethink that, Minister. You are not one of the MPs or the ministers - and I must say that - who are used to defend business or other interests. But I think you've made a foul here. I understand that this amendment may come from pressure, but I think that, Minister, you should think about it. It's a gift in the FAE and so you need to see it. Withdrawal, even now I think it'll help you. Second matter. We have, with a look, the fall of the New Democracy account in terms of dividends. I want, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and Minister, to congratulate you on the 175 million that you give as a dividend to the Greeks and Greeks. Congratulations! You have exceeded your target many times. We don't know him, of course, but congratulations. This is where we will compare, Minister. And I think comparisons are typical. What do we got? We have in 2016 the 629 million that Mr Tsakalots gave, which I see on the benches. How can I describe what he gave? "Shiskeys"! He gave 629 million to a total of six hundred thousand beneficiaries. In 2017, the "blacks" of 629 million became 750 million in a total of three hundred and fifty thousand beneficiaries. And this former Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotos, in 2018, gave 780 million! You, Minister, who give a quarter, what do you characterize? If he is "unexploited", if he gives "fly", how do you characterize him? You, the MPs, who went out to the cafeterias in Aetolocarnania and said that 'we will help you, we will stand next to the farmer who takes nothing, beside the unemployed, beside the multitude that takes nothing', what will you say? What exactly are you going to say? Because your arguments are bare, they are completely unscathed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I conclude with this. Support the amendment tabled by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Minister. Support her. Because when we were electorally saying that we would reduce the tax advance to 50%, you said other things. Now you don't. You don't! You're reducing the tax deposit. From 100% to 95%. So support the amendment by the SYRIZA Members, presented to you by Mr Tsakalots, to reduce the tax advance to 85%, since we have a financial area that we can claim. We'll reduce him to 85%, so you can get a bit of humanism and a social person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, too. We must wish the former President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi, and Mr Pappas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u77	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u78	You're welcome, Mr. Levane.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much. And by me many wishes to celebrate and celebrate. I will speak very briefly and with great sympathy to Mr Barkas, who I very much appreciate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u80	Mr President, I have not said anything on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u81	He asked to intervene. It's not about answering to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u82	No, it's not about a personal matter. It's about what you said. This is my job here. I felt that the party was affected and I just want a quick answer. In the about seven minutes and thirty seconds Mr. Barkas spoke about the four minutes he talked about Mr. Diadiar. I think that the ratio is not commensurate with society's concern. I just wanted to say that as soon as the Prime Minister returned from London, which we all know had rather more serious jobs to do, he asked for information on what had happened to the State Secretary. He just got the information, not from the media - the media helps us to get informed, nor affect or affect the decisions of the Prime Minister and the Government - he immediately asked for his State Secretary to resign, and that is what happened. I think this debate has taken more than it should have been, and the answer is very simple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u84	There's no personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u85	He referred to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u86	The most - very - Mr Diadiaris, because you spoke a lot about him, to send you a good gift for Christmas!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u87	We don't need it. But he referred to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u88	Good. I give you the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u89	Mr President, the Prime Minister of the country was in the country at the time of the outbreak of the scandal by Mr Diadiari. He wasn't out. Ar, he could be informed by himself, because he was here in the country too. He could call him and say, "You have a fake degree? " It is clear, Mr President, that Mr Diagnossia does not even have a degree. He's a high school senior. It's not bad. We don't say these people aren't required to be Undersecretary. But he lied, Mr. President. And the fact that he lied also exposes the Prime Minister and the Government and the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, as well as the media that they wanted to hide the news.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u90	Your statement applies, and Mr Lebanese's answer is true. Let's move on. Mr Bartzokas has the floor for seven minutes, and then Mr Kotsiras, both from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the tax bill, which introduces a new reality for Greek citizens, a bill that finally gives 'oxygen', which Greek society needs, compatible with our mere election commitments, part of a coherent plan, with a development dimension and a social dimension. But, before I place myself on the rules, I would like to state my surprise. In short, the opposition said it would vote against this bill in principle. I am impressed by the arguments and, in particular, the following: On the side of SYRIZA, it was said that the new tax bill broadens disparities and burdens the middle class. From the side of KINAL that this bill does not disturb the tax raid. From the JRC that only from the title will it vote against in principle. From the Greek Solution it is also reserved by Mera25 that it provides creditors with obedience credentials. And what gives rise to a greater impression is that at the social partners meeting, not one of them raised objections to any of its provisions. The Minister himself asked whether any body wishes to withdraw a provision and the answer was negative. On the contrary, everyone said it was the first bill to reduce taxes, moving in the right direction and having a social sign. So here, ladies and gentlemen, we have the logic of irrationality. On the one hand, society supports it, and on the other hand, opposition is voting against it. What exactly does he vote against? It votes against a 9% tax rate for incomes of up to EUR 10,000 for all, instead of 22% for all other incomes until now, reductions the rate by one unit for all other incomes. It votes against an increase in the tax rate of EUR 1,000 for each child and regardless of the number of children protected. It is voting against the reduction in the tax rate for companies from 28% to 24%. It is voting against dividends which will now be taxed with 5% of 10% that were up to now. It is voting against the reduction in the tax advance. It votes against at 10% tax rate for agricultural cooperatives. It voted against the reduction of VAT on infants, exemption from the solidarity levy for all HEIs and, finally, incentives on the property market. Ladies and gentlemen, you are voting against this, with the argument that we could do better. So, in essence, you judge it negatively not for what it says, but for what you know that it could not be done now, as if you do not remember the budgetary obligations that our country has, the ones you have said and, finally, you were confusing that they are torn apart by a law and an article. So either you're pretending or making a reasonable mistake, which is just as dangerous. Of course, there is still a lot to be done and it will be done. We have a long way in front of us, but you cannot give up that bill is one of the same. It's at least disgraceful for the Greek citizens who remember. You may forget, but it's not like that. Let me remind you of what happened last five years. Over the past five years there have been increases everywhere: increases in VAT, increases in fuel, increases in income tax, an increase in tax on free traders, an increase in corporate taxation, an increase in insurance premiums, a tax on hotels, an end to pay-TV and telephony. And the list is long. Did you reduce something? Yes, ladies and gentlemen, you are down. You reduced the Greeks' ability to fulfil their obligations towards the state. You filled them with debts, and then you made an irrational settlement of debts. Even this arrangement came New Democracy and corrected it. So you cannot come here and shake the finger that we supposedly support the capital, that we are allegedly not taking care of the middle class, that you have the monopoly of social sensitivity, nor can you say that we are eating from the ready, what you have allegedly left. Because the numbers don't lie. You've delivered us a void. That is the truth, a gap of EUR 1 billion. We also come to lighten society by 1.2 billion euros. You also keep saying you didn't have time. That argument has been aged. Unfortunately, you have ruled four and a half years this country. No one believes you. Because against this, there is a government that in just a few months' time. Therefore, do not use it any more. This tax bill concerns and benefits all Greeks. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We want a strong and competitive economy that can stand on an international level. We want a tax system that activates the abilities of the Greeks, which does not incriminate the success of the company. We want innovation and new smart businesses. They're the ones that bring a lot of good work. Ladies and gentlemen, dialogue and proposals for improvement are always welcome. The adversary, however, only for the opponent helps nowhere. Our political responsibility is high in the face of a society that is currently coming out of the crisis. We all have to respect her. Let us put aside the party intentions and support this tax bill, even at the last minute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr. Bartzokas. The next speaker is Mr Kotsiras from New Democracy, followed by Tsipras George from SYRIZA. Mr. Kotsira, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, with the tax bill we are discussing today, our Government, the Government of New Democracy and, personally, the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Finance, do what we committed to the Greek people by election and during the presence of the Prime Minister at the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki. After a ten-year economic crisis, a tax bill is submitted to the House which will be implemented directly and does not simply have a pre-election dimension. It relieves natural persons from unfavourable tax obligations, drastically reduces corporate taxation while creating the conditions for attracting investment funds by creating a favourable tax environment. This bill is part of the Greek economy's data, as it seeks its real relaunch and the immediate improvement of the economic indicators of the country. Once again, the government proves its credibility throughout the five-month period, supplemented in a few days by the country's governance, its persistence and commitment to the immediate development and support of the economic activity of the productive part of the Greek economy. The first pillar of the bill, which is the fairer distribution of tax burdens and the significant reduction of natural persons and businesses, is extremely important because it really aims to alleviate the burdens that have existed in recent years on our truly weak fellow citizens, who are making up to EUR 10,000 per year and more than 22% which was their tax burden, could have a 9% burden. But this obviously favours our other fellow citizens, who will see a sharp fall in their taxable income. We support the family with the duty-free 1 000 euros for each protected child, which is a basic principle of our election commitment to the Greek people. The percentage of VAT in infants is also decreasing. Article 18 also restores social inequalities against vulnerable groups, i.e. exempt from the solidarity levy for SMEs with a disability rate of more than 80%, irrespective of the form of disability. Business taxation is falling from 28% to 24%, which gives a basic start to small, medium and large entrepreneurship, which should be a key and structural element for the country to breathe, for there to be jobs and for younger children to find good and well-paid jobs. We have the reduction of VAT on motorcyclists, which obviously favours the cultivation of a culture of better road safety, as has recently been the case with the Criminal Code, which has been voted on to make a felony of the case where one leads under the influence of alcohol, so that there can be a strict treatment to these issues that are plagued by Greek society. The second pillar, which concerns attracting investment funds through the formation of an attractive tax environment, is precisely the core for which the Greek people have voted for us, so that there can be an investment climate, a fair tax environment with space, with "air", so that the Greek economy can breathe. It is clarified and simplified the legislation on tax homes, and an alternative method of taxation of foreign income is laid down. The rate of taxation of dividends from 10% to 5% is reduced. Exemption from income tax and the solidarity levy of interest on corporate bonds listed on a regulated market is provided for. Also, in my view, it is particularly critical to relaunch the economy and to support economic activity in sectors of the productive Greek economy, which have been violently affected in recent years by the economic crisis. The suspension of the levying of VAT on buildings licensed from 1-1-2006 onwards, including the contribution, as well as the suspension of the imposition of capital duty on the transfer of real estate for three years are provisions that can and will give the necessary rebooting in a sector which has been a motor for many years in the Greek economy, such as real estate, and which in the last 10 years, with the economic crisis, has been affected and almost disappeared. This provision will, therefore, lead to jobs with it, more than a hundred, which will be able to breathe again into the market, relaunching the income, capital and money that will fall again on the market. In addition, regions that have been able and developed - and by reasoned building activity - will be able to resuscitate and see their societies take back and fall money on the market, which was so necessary and had disappeared over the last ten years. This is also coupled with the introduction of incentives for spending on services related to energy, operational and aesthetic upgrading of buildings, with a tax deduction of 40% for the costs of the work concerned, with a total cost of EUR 16 000. Here, together with the necessary support for economic activity, the environmental dimension, which we must have and take into account, there is a reasonable reduction, if any, of the loss of taxation from the state funds. It is therefore a targeted regulation, which will also strengthen the property market, reduce tax evasion and strengthen the environmental dimension of the new government's policy. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill has too many provisions, as I said before, which are the core of what we committed to the Greek people and will give the necessary space to the Greek economy. What we have to understand is that, for the New Democracy and the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, the reduction in taxation is not a fragmentary one, it is not something that we do so in order to gain temporary political benefits. It is structural and a component of our ideology, to reduce taxation, to give space to the middle class, to give space to the weaker to become better, not to condemn him to a reasonable denomination within Greek society, to give him incentives to rise, to support and to motivate the middle class to rise and to be able to produce. So for us it is a structural element, we will continue to serve it, and I believe that the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, already in the first five months of governance, has shown the samples of credibility, which have been so missing from Greek politics in recent years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, too. The next speaker is Mr Tsipras George from SYRIZA, followed by Vayonas George from New Democracy. Mr. Tsipras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, today is a day of remembrance for Gregory, but it is a day of remembrance for state policies in the field of public order, which sometimes result in murder. Today we are going through a time when we have returned to old such state policies. I would like to begin with the fact that I was amazed by the position of Mr Lebanese, the Parliamentary Representative, for Mr Diadiaris. A colleague just spoke a couple of minutes about the matter...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u96	Four.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u97	Four, yes. And the parliamentary representative has diagnosed that there is not such a big deal to talk about. Well, last night I left the House, I looked at the news on Google and there wasn't the news, in the first news, of the resignation Diagnostic. We had the “fake news”, with you we have learned “no news” and now “disappeared news”. Nor this morning is there, but unfortunately the Diagnostic has resigned. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u98	Didn't you say Google? And how did he disappear?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u99	Yeah, on Google. Open Google and let me talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u100	They're probably interested in other things in the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u101	Mr. Diadiaris has resigned. What does that mean? That no matter how modest you have, you can't hide the things of excellence or your true who. No matter what moderate superpower you've got, it's unavoidable. The government of elite, an unfinished army of excellence and a Prime Minister who has proved to be ever shorter on serious issues, will be increasingly exposed to the burden of its own shallowness, first and foremost. I'm coming to the bill now. The first question is whether there's any logic behind the tax bill. I am not saying that there is any logic, but I wonder whether that logic has any developmental character or any other development logic from ours. And with the Polynomial Plan of the Ministry of Economy and the current, the diploma in which all your development philosophy is condensed is tourism and construction. Greece will therefore proceed to the era of the fourth industrial revolution with tourism and construction. You have removed every element of our development strategy, without adding anything else, any, even an innovative element of a development perspective, and you are turning Greece back to pathogens and distortions of an economic model that has led us to the very deep crisis of 2008-2009. In this bill you're putting the dividend tax down to 5%. It's money for which there's no minimum incentive for investment, it's money that gets into the pockets. Only four other countries throughout the European Union have 5% dividend tax, Hungary and the three Baltic countries. We're not like them as an economy, and the question is why. Let us take Ireland, for example, where a previous period of time, before falling into a very deep crisis and entering a programme, has implemented a number of measures, including very low business tax, to attract it. What was the dividend tax in Ireland? Who's today? It's 51%. You also apply very low dividend taxes and very low corporate taxation. In total, most of the measures in the bill are for the very rich, big business and large property, both in the bill and in what measures you have taken so far, while Greece is neither Cyprus nor Luxembourg nor Liechtenstein, and that is why many of these measures in other Western European countries - and they do not know - do not apply them. Some of these measures do not lack any fiscal logic. You put 30% on e-commerce for the simple world and for the very big of them you download it lower than it was. One who has an income of EUR 300,000, based on the 10% that was in place before, had to present EUR 30 000 electronic transactions, and today it is 20,000. What's the logic? It's completely incomprehensible unless we want to benefit some friends or some very rich ones. You are limiting the public's right to check for tax evasion, if there is new evidence, in the ten years from the twenty years that were up to now. Refer to the explanatory statement that it is in line with the decision of the S.H.E. But that's not what S.H.E.'s decision says. Since there is new evidence, one could look into a 20-year-old background. You charge the world 30% necessarily electronic transactions, which are inevitable and mathematically certain will result in extra taxation for many of them, and for large tax evasion are only exemptions. This year, he said at some point in a channel - recently, a few months ago - Warren Buffet, the richest man in the world, that the rich today - and it was not only mentioned in the United States - are blamed on the general population. In a recent article, he said that he himself is taxed at a lower rate than anyone else in his office. I don't know his political views, SYRIZA is probably not, but there is the question of progressive taxation. Your bill is in exactly the opposite direction to a progressive tax. And here is not the fact that we generally have some tax exemptions that will promote growth and tax exemptions for them, we have mainly tax exemptions for them upstairs. I am now coming to business tax. First of all, let us remember the facts. Who increased business tax over a night from 20% to 26%? The Samara government. From 20% to 26%. Today you reduce it from 28% to 24% and intend to take it to 20%.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u102	From 26% to 29% who took it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u103	Please, not such a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u104	Of course, the announcement by Mr Samaras that he will reduce business tax and take it from 20% to 26%. And I ask you this...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u105	And your tax-free allowances were abolished to the professionals...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u106	Now what do we do? Shall we take a break? Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u107	And I say to you this: the reduction you are making - and here we will be - will not have a minimum growth mark on the economy, nor will it be a minimum. And the reason is simple: there is a number of obstacles and fields that investors ask for, whether foreigners or those who are here. The only thing that they haven't asked for so many years was the reduction of corporate taxation in Greece. After all, in other countries as you know very well that they are much higher. Greece is neither Romania nor Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u108	I need two minutes, Mr. President. And I come to the subject on the basis of the middle-class business tax. It does not apply that the middle class is reduced. First of all, let us say that 64% of enterprises are in difficulty, whether they are injurious or inactive. Of the profitable 84% or 95% of the total, it accounts for only 10% of the 658,000, 84% reduction. 0.43% of the wealthier businesses, three hundred ninety-six companies, will benefit from some 344,000, and 1% of the total benefits of 450,000. These are to see if you benefit from small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and middle-class in relation to this article on business taxation. There could be any other arrangements, such as to benefit those who need it more than the big ones. As for the middle class - and I shall end, Mr President - because there is a very long story, but the elections are over, and at some point the theatre has to end, there is a serious issue. There must be some basic seriousness at some point in how political confrontation is taking place. I want to say two things: they are from a study of the interna tionality." The director of the NEOS is Minister of yours and then Director. While it fell 26% of Greece's GDP in 2009-2014, the self-employed lost 40% of their income. If you have any questions, you can ask Mr. Pierakakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u109	But you must finish because the two minutes are over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u110	I'm done. With regard to the figures, which Mr Stagiras mentioned - because he mentioned the figures, which reflect the middle class - on the basis of the OECD method, the upper limit of the middle class, as determined by the OECD media method, has fallen from EUR 23 000 in 2014 to EUR 15 360. I do not read to you, because I do not have time, the catastrophe seen by many hundreds of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises in those years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u111	Mr. Tsipras, you've been talking ten minutes. Are you voting for this bill or aren't you voting for it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u112	Since 2015, the evidence itself has said that first, this disaster has been halted. There is, even small, an increase in the income of these self-employed people and has opened up more businesses than they close. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u113	The next speaker is Mr Vagionas and then Mr Mandas from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. For the former President of Parliament, I hope he is healthy, to be happy and long-standing, productive in particular. I believe that in the last 15 years I have been in the House today is one of the best tax bills, because Kyriakos Mitsotakis, as Chief of Officerial Response, has promised that in the first two years, HNVIA will be reduced by 30%. He made a mistake: he does it in a year of 30%, 22% in 2019, when we were half - half - government, 32% down, for the next year. The tax rate, the lowest in our country, is 22%. It is a higher indicator in all neighbouring countries, 22% rather than the lowest. It comes, therefore, and says: "For tax income, 10,000 euros, there is a relief from 22% to 9%", of which 2,200 will be paid by a person with taxable income, today will pay 900 euros. It's 1,300 euros below. If that's not a key element of good tax law, then I don't know what it is. So I hear some whispers that collecting evidence, 30%, for low incomes, is too high. I say it's normal, not to say it's less than it needs, because it's food, clothing, footwear, cleaners, and so on, does it not cover EUR 3,000 at 10,000? I think we're out of reality if we claim such things. Demographic and tax bill. I'm not saying he solved the demographic problem. But if you consider that over the last eight years we have thirty thousand births more than deaths, in eight years there are two hundred and fifty thousand. If we say that we also have an exit from the country in these years, another six hundred and fifty thousand, Greece has been less than a million people over the last eight years. If this thing continues for a few decades, I fear and dare not say that there will be no Greece. We are, then, increasing the tax on every single child 1,000 euros. Every child born gets bonuses, a gift of 2,000 euros. And out of this, we're reducing VAT on infants, for children's helmets and seats, from 24% to 13%. Doesn't that say anything about new couples? The tax bill also has social sensitivities for vulnerable groups. We are abolishing the solidarity levy for all people with a disability rate of over 80%. For businesses, the tax rate is reduced from 28% to 24%. Mitsotakis Government's intention is to further reduce the income tax on legal persons over the next four years, with the complete abolition of the solidarity and trade tax at the end of the four-year period. Doesn't that even say anything? It is still a 50% reduction in the tax rate with your own government, in newly-born businesses for three years, and then we see. We are reducing the income tax advance for legal persons by 5%. In the primary sector, which is farmers, fishermen, farmers, we establish a 10% tax rate for normal cooperatives. Are not all farmers relieved of this? Businesses and free traders in 2020 will pay 30% tax less than 2019. Employees and retired people, they're about six million. 82% of taxpayers say up to 20,000 euros a year. And we need to make that clear, Minister, that. Wage earners and pensioners without children, with EUR 1,000 mixed per month, will pay less tax by about 150 euros. Employees and pensioners with one to four children, with EUR 1,000 mixed per month, will pay less tax of around EUR 200 to 400. Retired and retired with gross earnings of 1,700 to 2,500 euros, which is a 20 to 30 thousand percentage, will have less tax relief. We would like to give more. This is where we'll be next year. For very large wage scales due to a reduction in the tax rate from 45% to 44%, one unit of less, 100 thousand, the current tax rate will pay 45 000. The one we bring, 44. He's taking a lot. Do not swallow the camel and dilute the deaf. I wish we had so many rich people and 44% paid. Something very important that I did not see being stressed by any of my colleagues is this: for those who owe the public and want to sell their property to pay for certain obligations to the state, debts are retained by the notary and the seller takes the rest of the price and does his job. You don't like that either? For all these reasons, the whole society is benefiting, others less and more. I would ask you to vote on the bill and not the opposition as a whole say that our own government is giving a few people and a few. None of this was more untrue. More specifically, thirty billion surpluses that you 'wrap' from morning to night is a loan. It is not an excess that came from growth, but it came from taxation. That's the truth. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr. Bagiona. The Member of the New Democracy Mr Tasos Hadjivassiliou is requesting a leave for absence abroad on Monday 9 December 2019. Also, SYRIZA MP Mr Ioannis Mousalas asks for a short-day absence abroad from 10 to 12 December 2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u116	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. Mr. Pericles Mandas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that we are debating today, among others, is a first important step towards the decriminalisation of entrepreneurship in our country. We all know very well that it is the private sector that has lifted the burden of the crisis in recent years. For the first time the free trader, the man who is trying in our country, the small and medium-sized one, realizes that he has a government that realised that there can be no growth and support for entrepreneurship by increasing taxes, that the more taxes we put on the increase the tax evasion in that country, that every businessman does not want to avoid tax. He wants to pay his taxes, but he should be able to pay them, be at such a rate and be able to pay them. While all this is happening, and we all know that free professionals and individuals have been working all these years to support a public and economic crisis that has affected our country, since yesterday I have been following the debate in plenary, I can see that hypocrisy is more than hypocrisy for the spokesmen of the Civilian Vice-President. I have listened with caution to colleagues from SYRIZA from yesterday in favour of the value of tax reduction and I really wonder: Do we live in the same country? We've been all in the same country for the last five years? No one understood what had happened? Wasn't the SYRIZA government who received the income tax to the freelance professionals at 24% and took it to 28%? Wasn't the SYRIZA government that connected the income of the free traders to insurance contributions and imposed a tax of 27%? Wasn't it you who went to 100% of the tax advance? Wasn't it you who taxed everything that moves to the Greek economy, to wine, to the phone, to the internet, to VAT, to TV, to coffee, to hotels, to fuel, to anything you could put? Wasn't it you who took the VAT to the focus from 13% and took him to 24% and then brought him back to 13% "cut"? We have the world's originality as a country where the served coffee has 24% VAT and 13% of the deliver. You know that. With your policy, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you have not only targeted excellence in education. You targeted excellence, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u118	No excellence today!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u119	Wait, Mr. Pappa. You'll hear them. You targeted excellence on entrepreneurship, and you know why? Because you targeted the most creative, productive, competitive and effective part of the Greek economy we had, the people who were excelling in their profession and who had incomes because they were good at their work.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u120	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u121	They had customers, they worked from these people, you went and you grabbed 70% of their income. You didn't give them any motives to work. You only gave them taxes, and it was like you said to them: "Sit down to your house and don't work, because if you work and you're good and you make money, we'll come and get you." At the same time, you also created something else. You've taken the Greek society into account for the benefits. Young children sitting in their homes and getting allowances and not motivating them to go out to the labour market. You have created armies of our privileged fellow citizens to have them voters, daily sitting in their homes, not working and saying "What good is Tsipras who gives us money and sitting." That's what you did. You did not give any incentive to young children to get out on the labour market, to use their skills and find a well-paid job. You didn't develop anything. At the same time, you come here to plenary and disagree and you give us a resignation to reduce the rate of taxation to 24%. Instead of telling us that it is a little, that it is a small reduction, you disagree with that. Do you keep in mind what's going on in our neighborhood? How many Greek companies have they gone to Bulgaria, Cyprus, Skopje and are setting up companies with 10% "flat" taxation? How are we going to deal with them? Have you ever thought about it? Do you even disagree with the introduction of the 9% import rate for natural persons? But are we serious? In other words, the retired person, the employee, the free worker, the farmer will see an increase in their incomes from 200, 300, 400 to 1,300 euros. Do you disagree with that? Do you think a little bit? You want me to tell you what's going on outside in society? Do you know how many families, ladies and gentlemen, live at 300 and 400 euros a month? Do you take those amounts? Do you get it and think it's a little bit? What do you compare them to? With our parliamentary compensation? What's going on outside in the real economy? Do you disagree with the low tax rate on agricultural cooperative schemes? Should we not strengthen cooperative schemes? Shouldn't we motivate them? In the Messinia we have olive-growth in this period. Do you know how much the oil has? There's 2.30. No one deserves to go pick it up. If we had strong cooperative schemes, which could protect the quality and quantity of oil, show it and regulate the market, no one would protest now. How are we going to motivate all of them? Do you disagree with the suspension of VAT on buildings? One hundred and ninety-five thousand new properties are currently unleashed. Do you disagree with that? Why don't you vote for them? You are responsible for the exceptional aid of 175m euros. Let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen: Do you think that the Greek society does not know that you have used the financial balance you have found to provide exceptional support before the European elections in the Greek society, in order to secure its vote? The worst thing is not that you did it in the election room to hold the vote. The worst part is that you thought and thought you could deceive the Greek people in this way, but the Greek people gave you the answer and joined you in the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is not panacea and it does not solve all the problems. We're sure of that. But it's a bill that's the first step. What we are all proud of is that for the first time after too many years we have implemented - letter, word - word that we promised the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, too. Mr Himaras has the floor from New Democracy and Mr Katsis follows from SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Himara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the tax advisor by Mr Tsipras in his interviews for the measures that the Government of New Democracy would bring was ultimately Armageddon, which the SYRIZA Government itself provoked with its works and its days, exterminating the vulnerable social strata and the middle class. With today's bill, the government is practically fulfilling the mandate given by the Greek people to restore the country's economy and restore past injustices. In fact, this is not another tax bill, but an integrated development and social policy. We are changing the logic that applied to this day. The State does not stand against the taxpayer, does not chase the free trader, does not target and mainly does not demonize business profit On the contrary, it stimulates the businessman to invest, the free worker to work more, the employee to breathe and the retired person to be able to smile again. It motivates the farmer to produce, co-operative, to claim part of the goodwill of the product he produces, to enjoy himself and not the mediators of the fruits of his labor. As you can see, colleagues from Anti-Population, the New Democracy has a concrete plan that gradually implements with steady and studied steps. From the law on the final state to the development law and the current tax bill, we are completing one - one piece of the puzzle for a Greece with truly solid foundations. Ladies and gentlemen, the budgetary gap that SYRIZA has inherited us has managed to turn it into a financial area, effectively allowing tax reductions. Through the proposed provisions next year eight million of our fellow citizens will pay less taxes, as the 9% import tax rate is introduced for all, for natural persons, free traders, farmers, employees and pensioners, than the 22% that they are today. The reduction in corporate taxation by four percentage points this year and four over the next year is a real incentive for them, if you like, to choose other neighbouring countries as a tax office. It is a first hub, a safe shelter, which businessmen should choose by staying away from their reasonable tax evasion. It is, however, at the same time and rewarding the consistency, recognition of the hard work and survival struggle we have given and in the previous years have all the small businessmen and the state against, for all of us who have remained in the country, insisted on supporting the Greek economy, swimming daily against the current and taxes of the then government of SYRIZA. I would, however, like to go to another very important regulation of the draft law on the building sector, a sector which, badly lying, was brutally hit by the crisis, led to our fellow citizens' unemployment, affected the economy of each village and city throughout the country. I have looked and wondered what you have done to strengthen the construction sector, colleagues of SYRIZA, for the last four and a half years. What measures did you take? Do you know how many jobs are associated with building, how many families live and raise their children from the industry? Do you know how many people closed their books and are indebted today to speak and migrate abroad to survive? We know that and that is why we took immediate steps to start changing the picture. I am also referring, of course, to the suspension of VAT on buildings, the tax deduction of 40% on expenditure relating to energy upgraded buildings, but also to the suspension of value added tax on real estate transfers. They are simple practical moves aimed at changing the large but also small image. Minister, dear compatriot, ladies and gentlemen, by closing my speech, I would like to give you a useful experience, which I have gained over the past five years as Vice-President of the Region of Central Greece, where we have started an effort to strengthen the extroversion of agricultural products, the effort, if you like, of our inspiring farmers to conquer international markets and to enjoy the goodwill of their own business. Back in 2015, then, as a new regional authority, we quickly realized that to make real and practical use of our comparative advantages we must be practical and targeted. We started with forty producers and cooperatives in 2015 and participated in four exhibitions in Greece and one abroad. In the next few years, however, we have worked hard, back with producers. We've opened streets. Forty producers in 2015 in 2019 were more than eight hundred and five annual reports twenty-five. The products of the Central Greek Region travel to the shelves of northern Europe, Asia and America. But why am I saying all this? Because, unfortunately, the biggest obstacle our producers face is small quantities, small volumes and small productions that do not allow to meet demand. It is therefore a one-way process to unite forces, to involve our farmers in cooperative schemes, to producer groups and cooperatives. It is a real incentive to tax these schemes at a reduced rate of 10%. It is, however, the first step and, unfortunately, I fear that it is not enough. There is a need for greater courage in the tax treatment of our farmers. If we want our farmers to remain on our crops, if we really want to motivate them to unite, conquer the markets, they should be taxed as natural persons with a rate of 10% of the cooperative farmers themselves. To be taxed at 10% of the invoices they themselves will issue to the cooperatives. I am sure, Minister, that when the budget area is found, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis will do so. I am sure that we will stand by them and support the new development model of cooperative economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, too. Mr Katsis has the floor, and then Mr Mulkiotis, Mr Bordenos and Mr Kouvellas follow. I hope that something will not happen in the intervening period. Here, Mr. Katsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are discussing the much-expected tax bill of the Government of New Democracy that would bring reliefs to the middle class and "will" unite all the Greeks that SYRIZA divided them with his class policy. Instead, we have another act that the government has rebutted its election self and is tearing down another top story with which it won the elections on 7 July. Following the responses to the pillars of your propaganda, such as in the Prespecies Agreement, which you will eventually observe and honor, such as in Matti, which is finally the result of climate change, as in the refugee, which is a geopolitical problem that has come to stay, as in excellence, which ultimately remained without a degree, but with a doctorate in pale-communism and rousfetti, today comes, so today's bill of concessions above 1 billion left to you by SYRIZA leaving for 2020, where, according to you, you would return to the middle class "of what was deprived of it by Tsipras". That's exactly what you said. Yes, sir! Let's go see the last one and not the last one, the one I mentioned and which proves that on July 7, he didn't lose, but populism won in Greece. The middle class, which, according to the Minister of Finance, Mr Stavoura, is the ones that take from 6,000 to 16,000 euros a year, asking us what the labour and the small and mediumsized class is, which, of course, has nothing to expect from the current government, as you give it all to more than 15% of society, to elite, to the few, to the rich. The unemployed, the low-payers, the low-payers cut off the social dividend that SYRIZA gave for three consecutive years, breathing to those who need it, while the money fell into the real economy. Seven out of eight who received a dividend from EUR 200 to EUR 1,200 this year stays out. We gave EUR 629 million to a million of six hundred thousand beneficiaries in 2016 and EUR 750 million to three six hundred thousand beneficiaries in 2017. We also gave EUR 780 million to three million seven hundred thousand beneficiaries in 2018, and now you are bringing us EUR 175 million to minimum beneficiaries. Then you charged us with crumbs, overtax dividends, and much more. Now what do you have to say to those who believed you? Is that you're giving them tax exemptions? The treasure's carbon! From EUR 0 to EUR 17 per annum is the reduction of the social majority. Put it down annually, to see who's lightening and who's burdening the many. But do you know what the worst is? That the basis for your vote does not accuse you of giving it to the rich, as we say, but of giving it to the illegal immigrants, as Mr Samaras calls them and you do not even go out and answer him. Spread winds and heated storms! Didn't you have any money to give, as Mr. Stagiras said, why did SYRIZA share it for the thirteenth pension last Easter? No, because she's going to cut you off, and it looks like we're talking about the budget. What are you doing? You are heading for 50% of the reductions in business, while the majority of employees and pensioners are being reduced by up to EUR 20 per month, and for too many are zero. Almost 80% of the benefit from the reduction in the tax rate on businesses will be fruited by 2.5% of all enterprises. You reduce the share dividend tax, increase the obligation for electronic transactions to levels that many low and medium-sized will not catch, at the same time as you reduce it for high people and integrate the obligation into the free professions. To know the middle class and low incomes that soon they will be called upon to pay the bill for the gifts of the New Democracy to big incomes and big businessmen! Does the middle-class mockery that she trusted you to ease her burdens stops in tax? No, of course not. The insurance policy is coming, and at the end of the day every self-employed person will make a fund and find out the facts of the New Democracy. The draft law is revealing - and, in my opinion, it is provoking - a scandalous favour to dark interests in the sensitive media sector. In Articles 50 and 56, Minister, you are giving another gift to the media owners. You are doing so following up the law that we voted on - you voted for it, Mr Georgiadis's so-called developmentist, Law 4635/2019 - which exempted from the obligation to name shares in UCITS and AIFs for the media and from the obligation to submit 'from whereabouts' of shares in television channels. So you come today and exclude them from the special property tax, which is an offshore disclosure tool and at the same time, you are scandalously reducing their taxation. What happened? We're done in Luxembourg! We are talking, in other words, about a grid of deregulation and scandalous investment in the media. But are we stopping here? No, of course not. As you know, in Greece the big channels are held by football club owners on the road that Berlusconi drew and here the Government Representative Mr. Petsas is absolutely exposed once again. As yesterday we discussed here - and I remember - the timely question about the upcoming market in FORTHNET and what it was saying to us at that time? We told him by Mr. Petsa that he left ERT without contracts in the large television groups and Mr. Petsssas appeared as a defender - allegedly - of the money of Greek taxpayers, saying that ERT relieves taxpayers of superb contracts and respects public funds. Furthermore, as we have explained it is a lie, we have asked the Governing spokesman to that timely question whether he intends, as Mr Augias had announced, to bring tax reductions to the contracts of footballers and AUEs. And Mr. Petsas, like in the case of the unexecutionable Mr. Diadiaris, set off the island. And "before a dilemma you, three...", bring it with an amendment, number 116/30, where in Article 1 you reduce from 1-1-2020 the taxation of players' contracts in the OEMs and in the OEMs from 45% to 22%. Here's the other little gift to the canals and the owners of the OAUs! How much, then, Mr Minister, is the public being damaged by such a reduction that pain has taken you that the costs of ERT will be reduced and saved by the taxpayers? Is it middle-class, is it the expensive-paid athletes and the team owners you're lighting them up? Does it have any developmental purpose or does this charitable arrangement provide an incentive? Instead of reducing the tax advance - we had secured 1 billion euros for 2020 - in 50%, instead of abolishing up to 20,000 euros the solidarity levy, instead of further reducing the ENPI by 50% for low-paid and low-paid pensioners, as we planned, you go and give gifts to the domestic Berlusconi! And to joke a little, would these domestic Berlusconi also make any relocation of the project to fill the people with "barto and spectacles" after they won't get a dividend? No, the owners' pockets will go to the tax exemptions you give them, where the known crabs are reared. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Even with another amendment, therefore, the attempt to eradicate the debts of the past, such as Article 7 of Ministerial Amendment 107/21, which abolishes the Special Control Committee established by the SYRIZA Government to check the financial aspects of the specific management of the ERT after the 2013 'black' and its effects on the public sector, a corresponding cover arrangement, as you do with the Criminal Code and the immunity of the bankers. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that the development process of the economy, tax relief and the activation of debt relief measures that you are celebrating. It's a ready project that you found from the SYRIZA government. You have great know-how to start dismantling all of this and to go bankrupt again and the country and the citizens. And it is the responsibility of the citizens and the progressive political forces not to allow you to, because the memories are fresh and the country cannot go back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr Katsi, although you asked us for Ronaldo to come to Hercules Igoumenitsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u127	And PAS Yannina to come!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u128	The Goddess!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Mulkiotis has the floor, and then Mr. Bored. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the blockade bill, in the order of the emblematic bills concerning both the state and the development bill. There is clearly a communication overestimate of this bill, however, it is a bill of reduced expectations. It is well known, ladies and gentlemen, that reducing the standard of living of the majority of citizens was the result of a specific policy. It is also known that the overtaxation that caused serious problems in the middle-class also has a cause for a specific policy. Of course, this policy was certainly intended to replace the social state with the state of charity. Today we have a bill from the New Democracy Government which is part of Mr Mitsotakis' promises, which were supposed to be promises to overthrow the policy of overtaxation. In the programme of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, with promises to the Greek people, said that the next four years would be the four years with particular emphasis on exempting from the extermination measures for businesses, professionals and the middle class. However, the tax bill that we are debating today is in any case lacking in the development dimension. It is not an integrated reform, it serves today and the future needs of the country and society. It does not contribute to the need to attract foreign investment, to the need to create jobs, to the technological modernisation of their businesses and equipment, of course, and to the challenge of the fourth industrial revolution. The individual contributions to tax reductions are a long way from both the need to liberate the growth potential of the economy and the burdens actually accumulated by the previous government. However, they are also absent from the New Democracy election vows of the middle class. What they contribute today to the bill what is it? That those who contribute 53% of the total personal income tax will see, Minister, reductions of EUR 17 to EUR 37 per year in their tax. And so to speak, a coffee monthly! The government is therefore talking about tax reductions, but this is not in line with the budget figures it has submitted and provides for an increase in income tax on natural persons by EUR 264 million. The reductions that are announced are falsified and in practice are cancelled, since at the same time there are additional charges and I call on the increases in electricity prices, the 22% hidden tax for those who cannot collect 30% of income in electronic transactions. I would point out here what the Scientific Committee, to which no convincing response has so far been given. It is a long way from what the Scientific Committee specifically says when it says that the tax on income or expenditure on property does not seem to be levied, but rather on non-existence of expenditure. Where did that sound? In which European country can such provisions be provided for under unforeseen conditions? Will such a procedure stand in a Greek court? Reductions in legal persons at a rate of 24% and, in particular, a reduction in the share tax to 5% have no link either to investment or to jobs. And while wage earners, pensioners and middle-incomes will continue to raise the higher burdens, the income of more than EUR 50,000 will see their tax burden falling and even more than EUR 1,000 per annum. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy shows with this tax bill clearly its face, as it was and continues to be. In addition to what Mr Mitsotakis wants to make to the Greek people, the policies that he has put forward in terms of the economic model are clear, are policies that are on the other side of the social state and of the state of solidarity. The New Democracy does not only represent the market economy, but is emphasizing it with one another on the role of the private economy, which places it at the top of the conservatives - not to say neoliberal - perceptions. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, growth and prosperity will not arise in the way you are trying to reduce taxation. You must take serious note of clear proposals that the Change Movement has tabled with this amendment. They are proposals for the welfare and solidarity of the State of solidarity: abolishing the special solidarity levy on natural persons, providing incentives to enterprises that create new jobs, abolishing the trade charge, boosting primary production through the reduction of agricultural income, strengthening collective organisations of farmers and excluding agricultural parcels from the supplementary ENPI - by no means refers to the bill on the excise duty for farmers' oil -, reducing the value added tax rates, restoring social injustice caused by the imbalance of indirect and direct taxes, implementing a five-year support programme for new entrepreneurs and professionals with a total exemption from income tax and from contributions to the main pension sector and by 50% for the next two years, establishing a specific inappropriate bank account of professionals and enterprises, establishing increased rates of tax depreciation that fall under the fourth industrial revolution and investment to counteract the climate crisis. If the bill is not taken into account, then, Minister, it is a fictitious policy which does not aim at social progress and is sure to fall into the void. Minister, the last amendment - I am sorry and I shall put it to you in the Minutes - as I see it and as you have given us, and as it has been distributed, it concerns the social dividend. [[At this point, the Member Georgios Mulkiotis tables for the Minutes the above amendment, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] One word I will just say: Apart from not calculating it or rather calculating it 'on the knee' - because it cannot be the whole text in writing and is filled with a pen at the last minute and with Mr Brutsis signing the EUR 175 million - you are giving the dividend to the HEIs, but you are putting a limit up to the twenty-four years. If he's over twenty-four years old, will he cease to be LOVE? A clear solution, Minister, would be, as long as there is an LEADER in the family, to have this discharge. I can't understand why it's up to twenty-four years. Why is this restriction mentioned? There is also a luxurious tax exemption for multiples. Indeed, that is a fact. Why wouldn't the third parties have this discharge? This difference against third parties today in Greek society why don't you see it? Aren't these people? Why wouldn't they have that discharge? These are major issues, which are disadvantages in a reduced expectation of reform, which you can do in this way. On this, then, the tax bill - and I am ending, Mr President - is supposed to be a protagonist for growth. How different, though, is the reality, the living reality to which we are talking about and about which we give concrete evidence! I cannot believe that Minister Stagioras and his staff have not yet realised that without a firm modern tool, which takes into account, however, the living reality, the grim reality and the needs of the middle-class, young people, farmers, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, the possibility of visiting us sooner and more and more. And, of course, do not rest on the communication support that has been given to you so far. The light you're supposed to want to bring to the country is slow to show. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr Mulkiotis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that from the top Western theories they are attending the meeting after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" five students from the School of Business Administration of Algeria accompanied by their professor and the diplomatic follow-up to the Algerian Embassy in Athens. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Bored by SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the election stories of the New Democracy -'sweet' - I say this because at times the story gets a fairy tale - was that the New Democracy will come and save the middle class. Playing with the psychiatry of a troubled society, New Democracy, through a propaganda that I would call it black, toxic, electoral, attempted to pass SYRIZA's image as a dragon from whose teeth it does not flow blood, but taxes, wanting to hide that the shrinking of the middle class is not a European trend, it is not a global trend, it is not a result of enlargement, the launching of inequalities, it is not a result of bankruptcy, that the shops did not cease to shut down already in 2010, but that it was all the fault of SYRIZA. In other words, they wanted to go through the world’s psyche that from SYRIZA’s shoes and pockets they are taxing. Our rapporteur has said that. There was a new product coming into the market, an electronic cigarette: SYRIZA is taxing and an electronic cigarette! Now and to increase the tax on electronic cigarettes, Mitsotakis will do good because he wants people to quit smoking! That kind of propaganda is what we are talking about, and I think that was a conscious act. The New Democracy knew what happened with the middle class. He knew it very well, and he knows that now that he's come to power, he can't save her the middle class and he goes back to play with the existential fear of the middle class. This goes on to make it up to you - and it doesn't seem to be relevant, days that are already - to cultivate the doctrine "law and order". All right, money I won't give you - because he won't give - but I'll save you. Cultivating a fear that comes next to the existential fear of the middle class. And you know what? This monster of fear, which you are now feeding, will eventually lead to independence. You see a shift through fear of society or some parts of society in conservative directions and rub your hands. It's not like that. You'll find it in front of you. And I am not talking about politicians like Mr Samaras who has shown that he is not horronous to put the country in adventures for thirty years on a matter of foreign policy - you know which - he can now play on it. That's not what I'm talking about. It goes beyond that. But 'anyway' that they would say to the House of Lords! The question is now: let us come to this. You were drinking glass yesterday, Mr. Amyras! You said it was to "drink it in the glass" the bill! Be careful not to drink uncontrollably, because it can have side effects!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u133	Of course! Cheers!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u134	I'll tell you this. Take the ‘KATHMERINI’. We're not gonna mess with the "Greek" now, are we? You're godly people. What does "KATHMERINI" say? No relief in the middle class. It is said to be "KATHMERINI". Read the whole text. Up to 8,000 -- he says -- they don't pay anyway, it's the big mass. It's the same. For incomes - it says - from 10,000 to 15 000 makes a difference of some 110 euros. If the middle-class is up to 8,000 -- as Mr. Staruras said - make the line for people to understand that that's what you meant to be the middle-class. Make it lined up, people figure it out! From 17,000 income up to 50,000, which "KATHMERINI" estimates that the middle-class - 17 euros varies, it says it's the difference. Not that wasted, Mr. Stakoura! We said throw it out, but not 17 euros. It takes a measure of waste! I'll tell you something else. Have you read the Communication from the Property Owners' Association? He says that from good words, they were fed, because he puts the taxes down. And I'm not saying you brought them in. That's not what I'm saying. I don't imitate you, because you're invincible. I say, however, that the Association of Owners says that we are putting down taxes and ultimately we do not have 30% that you are asking for e-commerce. That's what the Real Estate Owners' Association says. And I repeat. I said earlier that this is a process that is taking place in time now. And can I tell you something, Mr. Stakoura? The middle class or parts of it before bankruptcy was taxing. And what's the oxymomile? When he had'money', he didn't pay taxes. Now that it has less fat, taxes are increasing. Yeah, it's a reality. Is this a story's oxymom? But it is a reality. So why are you distorting reality? And let me tell you something else. And that is what "KATHMERINI" says. 600 million of the aid goes to firms, which accounted for 2.5% of the total. That's the reality. And the reality cannot be reversed. And say something? Because it was toxicly, in the election, that you used literature about lies, that literature cannot be replaced by lies. Because eventually someone ends up through communication structures not just lying, but being a lie, a virtual reality. That's where it ends. And I want to finish this. I said at the beginning to cultivate fear. And because those days are the days they are, I think you can't target a generation. I don't know if you've read what happened today in the Minidium. With the kalashnikovs, they went in. Javertis, Mr. Chrysochoidis was not there, was elsewhere, where the horror show develops.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u135	Please close, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u136	And I borrow an expression from the film 'Irish', which is last. He says somewhere: “Why is the sky infinite? To keep the birds from spooning." Look, sometimes those flying high, they're called ethers. They may be flying in the wrong way, but one prefers them to the ones who are constantly dragging. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u137	Thank you. Mr Pafilis, Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u138	From various leaks from government personnel - also written in the press - it has become known that a multi-legislative plan has been tabled, and indeed an urgent procedure to vote on it next week - and so forth the regularity!, gentlemen of the New Democracy Government - where this multi-project contains provisions to curb the demonstrations. It's a challenge to the workers, to the people. And it confirms one - I would say - a doctrine, that anti-popular policy is accompanied by a intensity of authoritarianism and repression at one time. And I'm just telling you, if you have such a philosophical policy, what are you afraid of? Normally, people will come out to support you all. So why? We would remind you, however, that others have tried, and other governments, both of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, have failed to do so. They didn't dare to. He fell into the void. And you know that if you try to put a plaster in the popular games, you won't make it. Your laws will be empty. And we tell you with all the seriousness and responsibility we have as a Communist Party of Greece. It is not the working movement, nor the rural movement, nor the struggles of women, youth, anti-imperialist struggles. What do you want? Is that how I want a cemetery silence? We're telling you it won't pass into practice, with all the consequences it might have. And of course it's not random now. It's a continuation of the provisions, rope. SYRIZA opened the road with the strike, with 50+1. You are going through this with electronics, with the abolition of asylum, with changes in the Criminal Code, with strict legislation on the auctioning of popular homes. With what argument, really? That minority groups cannot harm majorities and affect the public interest. Others used to say that. You repeat it from morning to night, and the Prime Minister. So let's see, ladies and gentlemen, what are the minorities and what are the majorities? Who demand such measures to ban demonstrations? The BSE, the large employers' organizations, the big traders in the centre of Athens, the big businessmen and other tourist businesses. How many are these, really, percentage? It's not even 10% of the population. These are, therefore, the minority and that minority you also support with these measures or are trying to support. What's the majority that's across the street? The vast majority of the Greek people, the labour movement, the popular movement that is over 70%, not to say that it is 90%. So let go of the minority tale. Minority in society - which, of course, resents wealth - is a handful of big business. And where is it from? Whose public interest is it? What does it mean in the public interest? What is required by the few against the many? Is it not an interest in workers, that is, in their struggles, to put forward their demands and you should limit them? Don't you dare. It won't pass. We call on the government today to withdraw such a provision - if it has it - and the people are on guard and in fact to destroy, I would say - such laws. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Now for the tax bill. And the Secretary-General of our party Dimitris Koutsoubas and our rapporteur Nikos Karathanasopoulos and the speakers have so far put concrete figures, questions, and the government is answering with posts. We don't generally speak abstractly. We're talking about evidence. So far no one has spoken to answer what we are talking about. We say the tax system is unfair and unfair. And, you know, we won't all have amnesia here. Who paid the Memorandum Weights? How much was that? New Democracy was 30 billion, 10 billion PASOK and New Democracy and 10 billion SYRIZA, a total of 50 billion. Who paid for this? The business groups? They also had profits. The worker, the people, paid them. How, then, did the budget area come to 1.2 billion? By who? From the taxation of the wealthy ones? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So how does he share this now? It's amazing. There are 615 million companies, over 50%, and 281 million workers. So you're collecting the money, for people to understand, all these years from the populace in total, and not only do not give it back to them, you're giving them little, they're going to vaporize them, and the rest of them in the business groups. And then you say it's not classic your policy and this bill! The second issue is the state budget, because here you are taking a subtraction and, Mr Stakoura, we are waiting for an answer. What does the 2020 budget say? Increase in tax revenues of EUR 773 million. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u139	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u140	Increasing tax revenue. But who pays? To give them an analysis. Indirect taxes, which is the most anti-grassroots tax, because it is another package of cigarettes for one that takes 20 euros and another for one that takes 2,000 euros and 20,000 euros and that is clean. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall not go into second place. Please give me three more minutes. Let's go to 638 million. Yes or no? From ENVY 84m euros, as well as from various other taxes. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u141	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u142	In other words, an increase from the taxation of natural persons of 423 million, natural persons and not legal and business persons. Right? I mean, 1.5 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u143	Yeah, but why?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u144	The taxes of the populace are increasing 1.5 billion. And you're telling us...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u145	Tax revenues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u146	Yeah, the tax revenues, but where are they from, since...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u147	It's 2.8% growth.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u148	Don't rush, I'll see you next year. Who's being reduced to? And I don't put all 557 million of them out of 30%. Reduction of 446 million in business taxation. They're poor, poor with all the monopolies! And if you calculate how much they earn, for example, one who has 100 million? He's going to earn 4 million in tax-free. Isn't that right? It goes from 28% to 24%. 10% of the distributed profits make it 5%. Listen, 5% - I say it so people can hear it! - big shareholders pay the distributed profits and 9% of the person with 10,000 euros income. What justice! And it's not classic this bill, it's overtax! Let's go down to the yard. I don't have time to say 'cause I have two more minutes. What are you doing? For workers, you legalise all the exceptional measures which would be exceptionally memorial measures - but, since you say the memorials have been abolished - that is, the end of solidarity and trade. At the same time, people are being taxed on the side, that is, education is all growing, all health is increasing, and at the same time, gifts to big capital. Isn't that right, Mr. Scandalides?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u149	That's right!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u150	These are the evidence. And what you don't give them! Tax exemptions on companies on investment funds markets in the stock exchange, UCITS, private insurance, offshore business exemption and in particular participation in shipping. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa! The shipowners are hungry! They're first in the world! They have unthinkable, unbelievable gains and you give them more from above to bring growth. What growth? The Greek crew have been reduced over the years and the "black" work, the Filipinos and all the rest and the profits are inexcusable. So is it classic or not? And harshly classic and double-class is, because not only does it take from the workers, but it also gives those who possess wealth. It's a story. It's a story. It's a story. It's a story. You know, we're not gonna make a theory about your model and SYRIZA's. Development, tourism. He's incredibly developed. Note a record. However, the hotel workers had a fall in wages and miserable conditions, in the third basement with unpaid work, with unpaid overtime and anyone who dares to speak, street, does not come back again. Until they wanted to come to vote in elections and told them that "you certainly have the right, but do not come back." Here's the growth that will bring the best wages! In this respect, not with PPC, reality breaks everything. Finally, I want to refer to the middle-class for a minute. Where are we? So you've done it. If someone gets 1,000 euros to be middle class! Are you working on us all? A guy who gets 1,500 euros? As Mr Papadimitriou said, with some profound analyses, it is - it says - the lowest middle-class, the thousands, that is, 1,200 to 1,300, the middle and the upper ones which may be 1,800. What do you say? What middle? Working class is all of them, most of them. And now you're talking about middle class and middle layers! That's where we came to tell the people that you're okay and have fun and you're middle-aged when you get 1,000 euros that ain't enough. The answer will be one: the organization of the people, the popular counterattack against this policy. And not to be calm, there may be difficulties, but these will give birth to a more dynamic movement and will not be subjected to it. Thank you, Mr President, and Mrs genome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u151	The president of the parliamentary group of the Change Movement, Mr. Fofi Gennimata, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u152	We always listen to him, Mr President. We may not applaud, but we can hear him. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the anniversary of the murder of Alexander Gregopoulou. An innocent child fell victim to blind violence by a police officer, the blind violence that led to the innocent victims of Marfin, the blind violence that led to the death of Thanas Axarlian. We want today to condemn the violence from wherever it comes, without asterisks, without any escapes and without exceptions. I would like to address the Prime Minister, before entering into the issues of the bill that we are discussing today. I imagine Mr. Mitsotakis can hear us. We do not just have difficulties in our relationship with Turkey. We have challenges, we have threats, and now we have actions that may lead to felony actions that violate our sovereign rights. You are underestimating the problem and you are not dealing with it. Following your meeting with Mr Erdogan, Mr Erdogan has taken another step in the case of the Agreement with Libya in the Turkish Parliament. So we need a strategy and a plan to deal with Turkey's moves. National line required. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is a need today for dialogue and understanding between us, perhaps as we have ever seen. That is why I insist so much on convening the Council of Political Heads. Of course the meeting of the National Foreign Policy Council is useful, but it is quite simply not enough. A common national line from the political forces of the place will strengthen the sense of security of the Greek people and send a strong message of determination everywhere. This is our responsible position, and with this very framework we are here, actively and dynamicly present, ready to contribute to the formation and support of this national line. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] We are a party with tradition - put and do - patriots. We want peace, stability and a good neighbourhood in the region. We are the first to seek dialogue, but dialogue does not mean discounts. We must have that very well in mind. The defence of our sovereign rights, the defence of our borders and our territorial integrity are vital to us, are the'red' lines, which, if violated by the neighbouring country, must have the appropriate response with all legal means. This position our resignation serves in time and around this position can and must be national consensus, to understand that we are not willing either for concessions or for concessions. We've given up enough. We granted the 'Prespes', we gave Mr. Erdogan the keys to the refugee, so that he could blackmail us now, and of course we gave all the public wealth to the Supreme Court. That's it! In any case, we must be prepared to defend our rights unitedly and determined regardless of the intentions and capabilities of third parties. If Turkey dares to trample our sovereign rights in practice, it must receive a proper answer. Can we all agree on that? Why don't we avoid talking around a table? Ladies and gentlemen, we are waiting for NATO's solidarity. We know, of course, that he continues to wash his hands! It continues to identify the perpetrator with the victim of the challenges and violations of international law. But this supposed neutrality should finally be stopped. We also demand practical solidarity from the European Union. The Prime Minister must bring the matter to the European Council next week and ask for Turkey's actions to be condemned. To ask for specific things from the European Union. State that it does not recognise maritime zones that have been illegally delimited. To impose sanctions on anyone operating in an illegally demarcated zone in respect of a Member State. He must call on the Libyan authorities to avoid agreements with third countries other than humanitarian ones. It is not possible for countries that do not have maritime borders to demarcate maritime zones by violating the sovereign rights of other countries. And, of course, to make it clear that if there is any aggressive action against us on the part of Turkey, the mutual assistance clause provided for in the Treaty of Lisbon will immediately be activated. Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the refugee issue, which is interconnected, I have hit the risk bell and I will repeat that it can develop into a national tragedy. It is therefore time for the Prime Minister to put this matter to the European Council as well. To get the European Union back the keys to refugee from Mr Erdogan. So, please, Mr Mitsotakis, and make it clear to our partners that we will be blocking even important Council decisions if they do not continue to assume their responsibilities on the issue of refugees - immigration. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the point that we are discussing. Does anyone really think that this tax bill is a tax reform with a development dimension for Greece tomorrow? I don't even think the Minister of Finance really believes that. The government has changed, but politics has not changed. And perhaps someone will ask us: 'Well, do you disagree with some of the interventions and reductions in taxes which they include?' And I answer directly: we disagree because we continue as a country, as an economy and as a society on the same dead end. We disagree on why the growth potential of the economy is not released from the burdens accumulated by the previous SYRIZA government. Because there are virtually no incentives for investment, for strengthening the competitiveness of Greek businesses, to meet the challenges of the fourth industrial revolution. We disagree on why small and medium-sized incomes, Minister, will again be charged with the burden of achieving over EUR 7 billion in 2020. Because, as it is clear, the New Democracy vows to support the middle-class were thrown into the basket of unusables. It is no coincidence that taxes on goods and services are increased by EUR 979 million and the income tax on natural persons by EUR 254 million, that even the reductions on natural persons, who are announced, are reduced for those with more than EUR 12 000 per year and are zeroed for those with more than EUR 20,000. And we're talking about mixed income. Evidently the New Democracy fully adopts the views of the former Minister of Finance that Greeks who have an annual gross income of at least EUR 20,000 to 25 000 should be classified rich if not fewer. We disagree about the absence of any policy and measures to create new jobs that our society so much needs and especially the new generation. Neither the horizontal reductions of legal persons by reducing the rate to 24% nor the reduction in shareholders' tax have a direct link with investment and the creation of new jobs. Finally, we disagree because social injustice is being strengthened, because the negative relationship directly to indirect taxation is further exacerbated at the expense of the people. We had no doubt that the blue Santa will appear this year in exactly the same perception that last year's pink has come with gifts, but it is even ten times as much as ten times as it is. Unfortunately, the 2020 budget also calls for the same thing. People are being charged with measures that will lead to the surpluses of 7 billion, as I said before, and then the government will come and celebrate 176 million. But with temporary allowances, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a social state that is built, and with surpluses the future of society is being undermined. We are of course not surprised at that. It is no coincidence that the Prime Minister at the recent New Democracy conference spoke for a long time without saying a word about workers, pensioners, farmers or small and medium-sized enterprises. It all concerned the few and mighty. An uncovered right-wing policy with little, of course, liberal sprinkle. What conclusion is finally drawn? That Mr. Tsipras' commitments for the surpluses are still here. Citizens are viewers in the same work. He's changed actors, but the director remains the same. That is why we are saying a strong 'no' not just in the specific bill but in the whole economic and voluntary policy of this government as expressed in the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, we have said too many times that we are not left alone in denials. That is why we have tabled, in the form of an amendment, a number of proposals which are part of our integrated proposal, which is the 'Project Greece', which strikes injustices and reduces disparities, which aim, firstly, to balance indirect and direct taxes by reducing all rates of value added tax immediately. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] This measure is indeed linked to the relief of the popular layers, because it reduces food costs and also supports production by reducing energy costs. Secondly, to support small and medium-sized incomes by abolishing in two instalments the solidarity levy. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Thirdly, support for small and medium-sized enterprises by abolishing the trade fee. Fourthly, by providing incentives to create new jobs. For each 100 euros the company pays for a new full-time job is taxed for 150 euros. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Fifth, tax incentives for new investments, for technological modernisation of enterprises and for tackling climate change by introducing high tax rates of amortisation for investments precisely in these areas, so that Greek companies are more invested, to stimulate their competitiveness, to adapt to the new data of digital transformation and to the challenges of the climate crisis. Sixth, to stimulate the primary production of the Greek farmer with tax measures that enhance their income and support producer groups and agricultural cooperatives and, seventhly, with incentives for young people to attempt to act professionally, to stay and create in their country with full exemption from taxation and social security contributions for the first three years starting their business and reduced by 50% for the next two. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are our proposals. This is the concept of the Change Movement for a tax system that really contributes to development and social justice and, of course, leads to the reduction of inequalities. They are proposals which will be financed by the outcome of their implementation, by the very positive effects that will have on GDP growth and, of course, the reduction of unemployment, and by the increase in public revenue and by the creation of an additional financial area from the reduction of the primary surpluses we insist on. What the Mitsotakis Government has so far refused even to discuss. Consider, ladies and gentlemen, that a practicable reduction of the targets from 3.5% to 2% will give us EUR 3 billion a year, that is, a huge breath to boost growth, give real tax incentives and support public infrastructures that are falling apart, with a serious public investment programme that has been plundering over recent years. You will be judged here, ladies and gentlemen of the government and Prime Minister. You'll be judged whether you'll finally manage to pull the noose out of the neck. In any case, we will insist, pressure against populism and maintenance. We believe deep in the need for a truly progressive government in the country, which will be able to definitively pull the country out of the crisis and achieve a much-needed regeneration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u153	Parliamentary Thessaloniki Mr Dimitrios Kouvelas is called in Vima.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u154	Thank you very much, Mr President. Great feast today, Saint Nicholas, protector of our sailors. Happy birthday to celebrating and celebrating. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are reaching a draft law which the Prime Minister himself, Mr Mitsotakis, announced last September at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. It is a piece of legislation that comes today at the initiative of the Minister and the Deputy Minister of Finance and that unfortunately for you in particular, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, it leaves no room for opposition, is so well worked out. After all, you belong to the paternity of disgracefulness about the intelligence of the citizens of "Thessaloniki program". We are doing everything - and more - which we have been committing beforehand, a draft law that is impatiently awaiting the whole of Greek society in order to finally feel relief from the intense pressure that has been exerted over the last five years because of overtaxation. You are the cause, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that the middle class in Greece, the main blood donor of our economy, has been ruthlessly beaten and fiscal inequality, unfortunately, has been widened in recent years. Individual freedom, tax justice and social solidarity are the main features of the current government. We said we would liberate the Greeks from the overtaxes, acted. We said we'd start all the big projects, act. We said we would bring growth to all and better jobs, especially for young people. We have said that our main aim is to protect the citizen in order to feel security without ghettos and abatas. It's happening. We said our universities would return to where they belong, that is, students and teachers. It's happening. The tax bill we are debating today reduces the burden on households and businesses, stimulates growth in key sectors of the economy, such as construction, tourism, processing and above all strengthens the incomes of employees, pensioners, farmers, free tradesmen, that is, all Greeks. The Mitsotakis government has given the signal of the new economic policy since the early days. Who's that? Less taxes, more investment. Smaller surpluses, larger space for growth. Less burdens in productive Greece, more and better jobs. These objectives fully adopt the current tax bill that is being introduced before us. It is first of all liberalising the economy from the tax invasion of recent years, also giving - very important - development incentives to small and medium-sized enterprises and professionals. It strengthens the available income of the citizens whose tax tolerances had been sacrificed to the altar of overcrowding in previous years. Let us quickly see what they include in the tax bill. Firstly, the initial tax rate for income up to EUR 10,000 is reduced from 22% to 9% for natural persons, free traders, employees, pensioners. This is the middle class, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. Secondly, regarding free professionals and self-employed workers for profits of up to EUR 25 000, namely small and medium-sized enterprises, we have a tax reduction of up to EUR 1,300. This is the middle class. These are the people who are the backbone of our economy, who have put back the years of the crisis and we must strengthen them. Thirdly, there is special care for the multitude, which is a category of our compatriots, whom the current government wants to strengthen with respect and faith in this task which they perform for our country by means of beneficial provisions, such as the building of a tax-free extra by increasing the amount of EUR 1 000 for each child without limiting the number of children. Luxury tax is also abolished for cars of up to 2,500 cubic metres, and it is also exempted from the solidarity levy for those with a disability of more than 80%. For new families, the VAT for infants is reduced for children's car chairs by 24%, which is currently at the low rate of 13%. Of course, this together with the financial support of EUR 2 000 for every Greek girl born since 2020, comes to be a support for the Greek family as part of our great national problem, the demographic problem. Fourthly, apart from the social nature, the tax bill also has strong developmental features. Business activity is no longer being treated hostile, fearful, ideologically, as was the case in the last four and a half years. In this context, the company tax rate is reduced by 28%, currently at 24% for incomes already in 2019, which supports thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises. This draft law also includes a number of brave initiatives to rebuild the building so that a market involving dozens of professions and branches of our economy can be launched. The principle has been achieved by reducing HPAI by 22%, which has taken place since 2019. It is a year earlier than Mr Mitsotakis had announced in election reminding you. We have three measures on building. Suspension of VAT for three years on unsettled real estate and on new building permits. The value tax on real estate transfers is also suspended for three years. There is a 40% reduction in income tax for services aimed at energy, aesthetic and functional upgrading of buildings. I'm coming to debt arrangements. The bill allows for new arrangements, with doses increasing to twenty-four and forty-eight. And, as we see, a social alliance between the state and taxpayers is being built. The Mitsotakis government trusts citizens and does what he has announced. That is why the citizens also trust us. The future, indeed, starts now and we prove it every day in the last five months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u155	Mr. Dendias, to whom we wish many years, is also called George. St. Georgios will accept wishes at the incubator. [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] Mrs. Rapthi is called to Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u156	Ladies and gentlemen, with the discussed tax bill our government has acted on what our Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis had announced at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, what he had announced for immediate and substantial relief from Greek citizens and especially the middle class. Our Government on 9 July not only received a budget space but also found a budget gap of 400m euros for 2019. This not only covered it, but also created additional financial space, despite the fact that SYRIZA, as we recall, had rushed to share the surplus in advance a few days before the elections. However, we all remember very well the twenty-nine new taxes that SYRIZA had put in 2015-2019 and which were literally torn down in the middle class. Increases everywhere: VAT, solidarity levy, tax rates, the Internet, fixed telephony, unleaded, heating oil. On the contrary, with this bill we are doing a great deal of decisive change in our tax policy. We are implementing a progressive policy that brings growth for everyone and gives a social signal to the redistribution of wealth. So, first of all, we significantly reduce the tax burden on families and households. We are establishing a low tax rate of 9% instead of 22% that SYRIZA has been applying over the years for incomes of up to EUR 10,000. We increase the tax rate by EUR 1 000 for each child, regardless of their number, and relieve all SMEs with a disability rate of more than 80%, in practice proving our social sensitivity. Finally, we reduce VAT on infants and children's seats from 24%, which is now for families, at the reduced rate of 13%. At the same time, with this bill, we provide significant incentives to attract new investments and we are practically supporting entrepreneurship in the interests of all workers. Thus, we are reducing the corporate income tax rate from 28%, which is today, at 24% and, indeed, for the current year 2019. We also reduce the rate of tax on dividends from 10% to 5% and give specific incentives to companies for additional benefits to their employees, such as a discount on public transport workers' card costs. Furthermore, we are legislating in order to recover our homes the value they have lost. With the reduction of the ETUC by 22% already applied, and after that, we move on to three more positive measures: We are suspending VAT on all buildings with a licence from 1-1-2006 and hence this suspension will also take over the contribution. We are also suspending the imposition of a capital gains tax on the transfer of real estate for three years. We are granting a 40% discount for expenditure relating to the energy, functional and aesthetic upgrading of buildings and further, we are doing a very important act and other very important interventions to the benefit of taxpayers. Thus, we are strengthening sustainable development by promoting the use of public transport as well as ecological cars. We encourage corporate social responsibility, by legislating a discount on the revenues of businesses for costs they have incurred and relating to social responsibility actions. And, at the same time, we are giving a discount on the donations made by these enterprises to the public and the OTAs, a regulation which was very useful, which was not to date. Finally, we reduce the bureaucratic burden and the suffering of hundreds of thousands of citizens from the debts of natural and legal persons up to 10 euros, so that five hundred thousand Greek taxpayers can finally get tax information. Ladies and gentlemen, our Government has shown us that the social partners and the Greek society are actually being disowned and are therefore worthy of particular congratulations to the Minister of Finance for this. It is obvious that our Government's philosophy of economic and fiscal policy is quite different from that of all previous years. Because from the bleeding of the middle class, as has been heard very much but indeed has been the case, the bleeding of the honest taxpayers, with all the unnecessary surpluses, is now going through a new era with targeted tax relief for all citizens, but especially for the most vulnerable and small and medium-sized enterprises, which are also the backbone of the Greek economy. So we are going through dynamically for a new Greece with fewer taxes, stronger growth and more and better jobs. That is what we have committed, and that is what we will do with this bill. That's why we support it with all our powers forcefully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u157	Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis is called on to step up the New Democracy Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, many years in holidays and holidays. Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a very serious issue about the economy, about society, the new tax bill, which will become a state law at the end of the day. But I think, starting with my position, I should like to inform the National Representation of developments after the last NATO Summit, but also my meeting with the President of Turkey yesterday. On Tuesday, of course, the Foreign Policy Council will meet on the initiative of the Government, and there the Minister responsible will be able to speak more thoroughly with all parties. However, let me take this step to make a cool illustration of the situation. In the news of our neighbouring country, two critical fronts are formed, and they have dominated the debate I had with Mr Erdogan. The first is Turkey's aggressive attitude, which - after the illegal action within the exclusive economic zone of the Republic of Cyprus - is now spreading to other parts of the Mediterranean. Its name is an invalid document, which Ankara baptized “Agreement with Libya”. And this, despite the fact that this initiative is already strongly questioned within Libya. I will come back to this later. The second issue that prevailed in our debate is immigration, where the neighbouring country has not, especially in recent times,, as I have pointed out to President Erdogan, the obligations arising from its joint declaration with the European Union. Against these two important issues Greece has a policy, it also has a plan. And, obviously, I won't get into much details. National policy is to be exercised, not to be discussed. I can assure you, however, that our movements are evolving and are already performing. The texts invoked by Ankara on maritime zones do not, of course, produce a legal result nor are they going to be ratified, not only because they are unloved and unloved, abolishing from the map of Greek islands, but also because they have led Turkey to an unprecedented diplomatic isolation. The United States, Russia, European Union, Egypt and Israel condemned Turkey's attitude within just two 24 hours. Even within the framework of NATO, which officially, as you well know, has always held equal distances to our differences with Turkey, powerful countries have criticised the attitude of the neighbouring country, firstly with French President McCron, who has put a barrier to the aggression of our neighbours from all official steps. He did so within the summit, and also in the debate he had with President Trump. We are, obviously, preparing for our next steps too. And it may have been yesterday in the Turkish Parliament that they approved a paper they wrote on their own and signed on their own, but this paper no longer recognizes it, and it does not mean anything at all. It will collapse, not only because it is illegal but because there is quite simply no legalised counterparty to ratify it in Libya. And we - I will say this again here and from the Step of the National Representation - will do everything we can to ensure that this agreement does not apply. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The Libyan Ambassador is already returning to his country, and the President of the Libyan Parliament is visiting our country next week. It is a very important development, as the President of the Libyan House of Representatives has already expressed to the United Nations his strong reservations - to say it more simply - his vertical disagreement on the agreement signed by the Libyan Prime Minister with the Turkish President, clearly saying that Libya does not have a maritime border with Turkey. No agreement can therefore be signed, which puts the definition of maritime borders between two countries which do not have a maritime border at the table. This visit is therefore very important. It highlights the fact that there is no government in Libya with stiff national fronts that can ratify this agreement. I believe that, at the end of the day, this agreement will collapse and we will continue to fight to do so. The voice of Greece sounds. The country has strong and correct allies in this matter. That gives me extra power. The issue will be raised at the next Thursday's summit in Brussels. I expect, I am sure that Europe will stand firmly together on the side of Greece defending its legitimate national sovereign rights. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] With regard to the immigration issue, I have repeatedly informed the National Representation of our plan. I've presented it many times from this here the Step. It has five clear priorities: Border protection, relief of the islands, controlled centres, quick returns, protection of unaccompanied children. I had the opportunity to discuss our plan with the head of the International Immigration Organisation an hour ago in the Maximos Mansion. All international organisations support the government's plan, and this is something extremely important, because we want them to be sick in our efforts. In addition, the newly guarded establishment in Samos is built with the supervision of the International Organisation for Migration and I think it will be ready to operate in the next few months. You know very well that we are strengthening the deterrent forces with new border guards. We are equiping our port with modern voyages, while in asylum it will apply from 1 January of next year and the new legal framework, which will significantly speed up the process of asylum performance, so that, at last, those who are entitled to international protection from those who come to Greece only for economic reasons are quickly distinguished. The first ones are welcome to our country. The latter must return quickly to the countries from which they came. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I would like to observe this, however. Despite the tension in our relations with the neighbouring country, there is room for improvement in the situation, especially in the way in which we manage the problem of immigration. The other side recognized publicly the pressure Greece accepts. I, too, once again invited our neighbours to do what they had to do. To control their coastlines from which illegal traffickers are exile, to do all they can to undo the human suffering exploitation networks and, of course, their coastguard continues to cooperate, as it has been working effectively up to a few months ago with our Port Authority, and their services to speed up the procedures for returning to those who are irregularly entering Greece. In conclusion, our position is clear. Greece is doing its job well, so must Turkey, but also Europe in its own measure. In such a case, we are and will be the firm and fair bridge of cooperation and understanding. That is why we are also highlighting immigration as a central European priority. I just met the Vice-President of the Commission yesterday, Mr Sword, the Commissioner responsible, Mrs Johanssen. It is extremely important that their first visit abroad was visiting Athens. There's a visit to Ankara today. And I am sure that soon we will have significant progress at European level on all the key issues, on the European Coast Guard, on additional funding and support for our country, on the difficult but necessary problem of the division of refugees, but also, of course, on the change of the status of Dublin. In difficult circumstances Greek politics exists, lasting and moving on. However, as I have said many times, the migration came to stay. It is an international, European problem, which goes beyond the powers of a single state. Obviously, his treatment will not be easy, neither will it be quick. It requires unity, requires determination, also humanity, but sometimes endurance from our people and understanding the difficulties that arise. Ladies and gentlemen, more can be said at the closed meeting of the Foreign Policy Council. However, I also wanted to present a few aspects of the development to highlight in the most official way what our national policy is and how it produces certain fruits. I am also doing so in order to guide public reflection properly, away from extremes and conspiracy theories that are often developed in public dialogue. I'm even doing it to assure the Greeks that the country knows and wants and can. It does not resort to slogans and impressions but acts methodically and effectively. Of course, while I was in the presence of the Turkish President, I was, unfortunately, informed of Mr Tsipras' inappropriate and divisive statements. Wrong attitude, wrong view, wrong deeds, but above all at the wrong time. I'm sorry. And the story of my resignation and my personal morality do not allow me to make part of party competition our national issues. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I'll stop here. I will just say this: at an extremely critical moment, Mr. Tsipras has taken his worst self. I really hope he's not the only one. I'm making a statement. Greece has often been found in storms and storms. But he has always exceeded them with unity, with good choices and allies and also goals, always having international law and national interest as a compass. That will do now, and I am sure it will come back to calm waters again, to continue the question of the progress it has made. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the important bill that we are voting on today. I begin by invoking the words of a valid observer outside the political sphere. I read: "The Greek tax system is complex and unclear, impenetrable and incomprehensible, unfair to citizens, unfair to businesses, and ineffective and expensive in its management." It is the assessment of Professor Chrysofe Jordanoglou in his book: "The Greek economy", just before the crisis broke out. Significant progress has been made since then, but the main characteristics of taxation have unfortunately not changed. But they no longer have to stay the same. New arrangements, therefore, come to change them, reducing taxes, so that there is growth for all. New wealth to the benefit of many. Three verbs identify the tax bill to become a state law at the end of the day. It relieves all social charges of the burdens brought by SYRIZA. It mobilizes the productive forces of the place with incentives to create and tackle tax evasion by drastically expanding electronic transactions. The bill can be easily attributed to both basics: Brake on burdens and gas on growth. At the same time, it protects and also releases taxpayers to act productively. This is done - to reverse an old slogan - with a law but with many articles. The new framework concerns all Greek citizens, reducing rates to all categories of income. But it gives a special weight to two of them. To the weakest by dropping the import tax rate from 22% to 9% for incomes up to 10,000 euros. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And to those who invest, by reducing the tax on businesses from 28% to 24% for every Greek company, small, medium-sized, large, reducing the tax advance and reducing the tax on dividends from 10% to 5%. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The provision for the weakest is also escalating by abolishing the solidarity contribution to disabled people, of whatever form, over 80%, with an increase of EUR 1 000 for every child and EUR 2 000 for every new birth from 1-1-2020. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] As with the reduction of VAT on infants and children's seats from 24% to 13%, the reduction in expensive medicines for serious diseases from 13% to 6%, but - with the addition of the Minister to the main body of the bill - and with the exception of laundry from the imposition of the luxurious living tax for large-scale passenger cars. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I have spoken about how we want to strengthen investment by reducing taxation on dividends. Interest on corporate bonds is also exempted from income tax and solidarity levy. It streamlines and makes it much more attractive for businesses to use stock options. They are self-taxed with 15% and only 5% for start-ups - a very important initiative to support the world of innovation and new entrepreneurship. On the other hand, we are also strengthening new agricultural schemes, as these will be subject to a reduced rate of tax of 10%. On a third level, VAT is suspended on all buildings licensed from 1 to 1-2006, facilitating the sale of unsold real estate and building activities as a whole. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The tax on real estate transfers is suspended for three years, but 40% of the tax on services related to operating and energy upgrading costs of buildings is reduced. A lot of targeting, that is, here too. To stimulate the dozens of jobs around building, beautiful buildings and towns, diffusion of the green economy and, of course, savings of energy up to the last household. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill still settles a number of loose ends at virtually zero costs for the state but a significant bureaucratic burden on the taxpayer. Debts worth up to EUR 10 per taxpayer that were only typically recorded shall be derecognised. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] On the other hand, we also anticipate important areas of tax evasion. Electronic invoicing is general. It is established that all, wage earners, pensioners, freelance professionals, income earners, will make expenditures equal to 30% of their actual income only through electronic transactions. Tax justice means widening the tax base, revealing undeclared revenue and combating tax evasion. However, there are also costs that are being paid if they promote not only growth but also social responsibility. In this spirit incentives are introduced for the use of zero-duty vehicles - preferably - but also low-pollution vehicles, they are deducted from gross revenue from companies for benefits to workers, such as unrestricted public transport pass cards. However, the tax bill, ladies and gentlemen, does not work alone, but in conjunction with the government's actions, such as the Development Plan "Invest in Greece", which looks forward to increasing the national wealth, such as the new regulation of debts that solves a daily armour of borrowers, such as the performance of widow’s pensions or retrospectives that cure great injustices of yesterday. In five months we have succeeded in covering a large budget gap which we found, over 400 million euros, but we have gone further. We have created wealth, which - I want to remind you - we have distributed to the Greek citizens beyond and above the objective of the surplus that we have agreed throughout this six-month period. We reduced the EVIA earlier than we planned. We have increased and are already delivering the heating allowance. We boosted the wounded PPC. We have reduced the tax advance and now we are coming at the end of the year to provide emergency aid to two hundred and fifty thousand families. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We do it targeted at the long-term unemployed, the multitude and the households with protected children. So let this comparison tale stop. Two days before the elections I clearly stated that there will be no additional budget space, for the simple reason that instead of letting the next government make use of the space in December, you shared it three days before the elections! It was a kind of political misappropriation that you did. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And although I clearly said that we do not have an additional budgetary possibility for 2019, we have nevertheless saved a significant amount and to reduce HISBIA and so that we can support the weakest households. However, I would like to be once again from this step perfectly honest. Benefits may be easy, pleasantly, sometimes also part - even though in your case I did not see any special help - but it is temporary. We said it then and we say it now. That is why we do not hide that we are choosing the difficult path, investing not only in the political presence but also in the future of the country. And as the proverb says, " rather than spreading sporadicly a few fish, we prefer to learn the world to fish." This is our overall perception of progress! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] I understand that colleagues from the Anti-Population Officers are annoyed by the fact that the country has already taken another picture abroad, which is all over the place. I understand that some of you may be disturbed by the fact that, yes, we have the lowest interest rates today in our history. They retreated dramatically after the European elections. We have come today to borrow at negative interest rates. If you may be a little disturbed and uncomfortable, I assure you that the vast majority of Greek society enjoys these developments! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is pleased that it has finally come to an end to the Capital Controls. Greek society is pleased that the Eurogroup yesterday decided to return 700m euros from the profits of Greek bonds, without any conditions and conditions, with a view to them - together with the others that will follow - to be exploited within 2020 for development purposes. Something that the country has been claiming for years now can finally be done. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill relieves citizens and businesses that have been afflicted in the past. But it is also another aspect of this new Greece's investment, because - I will not stop saying it - fair wealth sharing presupposes its creation and a condition for the production of new income is also the fair burden of the present. So we need more investment, more jobs, so more contributions to insurance. That is why growth is a social option. I want to say one last thing. This draft law marks the consistency in the reasoning and effectiveness, in practice, of this government. It is, I would say, our signature under the truth agreement, which I spoke about to the Greek people for the first time three years ago. It is the implementation of all those who wrote our election programme. It is the application of all my commitments to the last Thessaloniki International Exhibition. So his title could be four words: we have said it, we have done it and so we will continue!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u159	Mrs Gennimatas, President of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, has been asked for the floor, and then the former President of Parliament, Mr Voutsis. Parliamentary representatives who have asked for the floor will follow. Here, Mrs. Gennamas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u160	Prime Minister, you said before in your speech that the foreign policy case is to be exercised and not to be discussed. Obviously, you take full and complete responsibility for the management of this very serious matter, our relationship with Turkey, and deny dialogue, understanding and attempting to create a national line around this issue. I personally disagree, but this is your choice. But you should be clear today from the Step of the House, if there are any red lines for your Government. Because it is not enough on foreign policy issues to temper. It is necessary and decisive to enable our country to achieve as much support as possible for our partners and allies and to be effective in defending our rights. So it is of great importance, Prime Minister, not only for the Greek people but also for our partners in Europe, for our NATO allies to know that your government is determined in practice to stop Mr Erdogan if he effectively questions our sovereign rights. You mentioned before, speaking of Mr Erdogan's moves and said that after the illegal activities in Cyprus, it is now spreading to other parts of the Mediterranean. It does not simply spread to other parts of the Mediterranean. It questions our sovereign rights with regard to Crete and other our islands. Therefore, this issue has overcome the challenges at rhetoric level and we have specific acts and actions that should not lead to a fait accompli. And in order not to lead to a fait accompli, the Greek side needs to give a message internationally that it is determined and that it has red lines. So, I ask, what are the red lines for your government? We are used to this place being convened by the Council of Political Heads in the midst of a crisis. I remind you of what happened in 2015, where if the Council of Political Heads had not been, the country might have been outside the Eurozone. I hope this time that we will not be called in the middle of a new crisis in the Council of Political Heads, which you refuse, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u161	The former President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi, has asked for the floor. Mr. Voutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u162	Ladies and gentlemen, on the matter of the tax bill, as on other issues raised, the party's parliamentary representative will give the answers and the alternative proposal on our part. I would like to make an extraordinary position on the issues raised by the Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy in our relations with Turkey and with national issues. I want to be very clear. The development that has been made is extremely serious. It is clear that this development is a pragmatic principle, on behalf of Turkey's leadership, questioning the Losan Treaty itself in the context of revised considerations which have been in the past and which, in practice, with Syria, in its south-eastern borders, have been questioning some time ago. Maybe he took one of them "air", one would say. In this sense it is a seriously dangerous development. On the part of our party, we said that, after information and discussion within the Foreign Policy Council by the relevant Minister, on what was discussed the other day at the meeting with Mr Erdogan, there will of course be a detailed position. The Prime Minister today opened his papers to some extent after the symbol and let me say, perhaps not very well, a statement he made after the meeting with Mr Erdogan. I want to raise a few issues. First of all, it is unjust, at least, to attack the Chief of Staff Responsibility for the speech of the President of Parliament the day before yesterday, because comrade Alexis Tsipras was very specific in his criticism of issues that are extremely problematic. For example, on the same day there was a very distinctive view of leakages, a bilingualism about the crucial issue of confidence-building instruments. We agree that it should continue and that there should not be, even for two hours, this dialkystinda that gave the wrong signals to the other side. He also referred to what we did not hear today. I was worried more than anything. Of course it was not heard in the dense statement made by the Prime Minister in London. I am referring to the question of the implementation of the sinced decisions taken by the European Union on measures against Turkey in relation to the previous situation, namely infringements in Cyprus. There's a special list of these measures. They must be applied. There is also a need to extend these measures in relation to the new development, with the so-called agreement that existed between Libya and Turkey and the Turkish Parliament was quick to approve yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out to you that yesterday's approval from the Turkish parliament of this text is nothing simple. Twenty years ago the Turkish parliament approved the casus belli in relation to the Aegean, without the Turkish government deciding then. They let it go through the Turkish parliament. This issue has since created a wall between the relations between the two parliaments, the Greek and the Turkish. It is the only parliament with which we do not even have relationships or a group of friendships. It is not so simple, then, to say that the Turkish parliament yesterday approved a Fake agreement that does not stand anywhere in International Law. He really doesn't stand. Thirdly, the former Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, criticised the full voice that existed at the September meeting, when the decisions of the European Union on measures to Turkey were taken months ago, there was no reference to that meeting nor publicity. All of this gives the wrong messages. Finally, Mr Tsipras also criticised the extremely important fact that the Greek Government does not have a direct and decisive position on the issue of the reformal views and thoughts that exist in the region. He had criticised the SYRIZA government when Mr Erdogan's visit had taken place. We believe - and it has been - extremely successful at that time and at the juncture. The President of the Republic, Mr. Pavlopoulou, the Prime Minister at that time, on an international scale and in ears of listeners throughout the international round, questioned the theories directly and catalysts that, through leaks, either through books or the announcements of Mr Erdogan himself, had begun to deal with the crucial issue beyond the Cyprus issue, which is a key to the region. This is the possible review of Losan or such very dangerous thoughts about the region. There were answers then on all these issues. Mr. Secretary of State, you have found the relevant files. There is, as far as possible, a great deal of follow-up to these issues. So, in our country on the side of our government, a great dowry was left as to how the past five-year government managed the extremely unfavourable situation that emerged in relations with the neighbour on two issues. And these are the coup d'état that changed the situation there, but also for the peak of migratory-refugee flows in 2015-2016. Actions have been taken without the conciliation channel, without ever cutting off the ILOs, without ever having discussions on low-form policies being cut. It is right that there should be this channel of open consultation. With great clarity at all these meetings, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs themselves then raised the issues of the infringements in the Aegean. They put on the rest of the issues. The Europe-Turkey Declaration has been made, which has many problems - and you know it - but this statement has been made and there has been some results. But today I have something else to put to it. I am very sorry that it has not been put on this issue, while it has chosen - and rightly so - the Prime Minister in his speech today to raise these issues. Through the leaks that apparently became on and on about informing the world from these closed meetings, a major issue was raised, that President Erdogan said to the Greek Prime Minister that in SYRIZA or SYRIZA he is a "damage of terrorists". And you know what it refers to, whether in the eight Kurds or in the Ocalan precedents, or in a number of issues that are related to what the Turkish leadership calls, in the two months and years, is 'terrorists' asking for and finding asylum in our country or being dealt with here and for which cases are all judged by Greek justice. So he said the SYRIZA government and SYRIZA are exactly the man who attracts terrorists. And from the Greek Government's point of view, neither in the small London Declaration - which one can say was small - nor today in the Prime Minister's ten-minute report has been the sensitivity - I will not go up any further, when the events speak for themselves - to place the country on its behalf, on how Greek governments, on these issues, always behave on the basis of international law, domestic law, European Union law, in relation to all those who, otherwise, are regarded as terrorists. Also, the criticism that has been made over the past few days, which was also reasonable, was that of the highly contradictory - not to say anything else - and a problematic statement made by Mr Petsa - which was then a rehearsal in a very indirect way - on offsetting, namely, a measure between the refugee - immigration issue, which, as we have said before, is a Euro-Turkish issue, and our behaviour and the discussions that are taking place on other issues relating to Greek-Turkish relations. This thing is totally unacceptable and we had never said they could get into scales. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Of course, on the same subject, the House itself at the hearing of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees and Refugees, we were self-sufficient witnesses of men and women, Members of Parliament, serious objections, concerns which exist by the main body of International Law and UN Law on Refugees and Immigrants, for the refugee bill itself, which you have already voted for, in relation to closed detention centres and therefore we are opening up instead of going ahead. And, indeed, since we agreed - and we agreed in the previous phase too - that the main front is in the European Union, that there should be pressure on our part and determination so that all the states accept the decision. That is not a simple statement, as it is about Euro-Turkish. It is the decision to share responsibility, to share responsibility, to assume responsibility for refugees and immigrants from flows. This decision does not apply, while delaying any changes that have taken place since 2016-2017 in the framework of the European Union, on the 'Dublin' regime, which, if not exempted, at least lighten our country and the share that our country has in relation to this major issue, which we have always dealt with with with with a humanitarian dimension in the first place. Instead of turning our fires to the ground, we bring back and rediscovery anti-historic, completely sectoral and divisions within the country and a bill, which will lead us to further conflict and confrontation with the same international law. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen of all the wings, the whole issue is extremely important. I repeat that, after information has been given on the cut-offs, there will obviously also be further statements and measures and interventions to be taken by the party responsible and by the officer responsible. But the Prime Minister's current position was incomplete, extremely - if not split - and problematic for the way in which the former Prime Minister responsiblely and now Chief of Officerial Representation was present the other day and while he was at the meeting with Mr Erdogan was placed on issues of the past, which should be lifted to have a more decisive attitude on our part. There are surely some questions from the lack of top-level answers to the question of implementing and extending measures to Turkey by the European Union and possibly by the State Department - the decision has been taken, but these measures have not been implemented - and secondly, on the major question of terrorism raised by President Erdogan for our country as a whole, that is, we are suffering terrorists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u163	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u164	Before I give you the floor, Minister, to make an announcement: Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-eight students and students and two teachers attending from the 1st High School Ptolemaida. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Dendias has the floor now. Will you take five minutes, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u165	Much less, Mr President. After all, we have the information on the National Foreign Policy Council before us. So I'll see you there. I would simply like to see the President-in-Office, to whom I also wish a microphone, since I wished him, too, many years and well, to respond to a few things. First of all, I think that we all agree in the Chamber on what the Prime Minister said, namely that foreign policy issues are a special category in which dialogue must take place with a sense of seriousness and also promote national consensus. I think that's something that we've almost conquered. You will allow me, Mr President, to tell you that, in fact, there was a surprise for us - and not a pleasure - the position of the former Prime Minister, just a few minutes before the meeting with the President of Turkey, a meeting which, let us not be fooled, was going to take place in a climate which was confirmed by Turkey's recent actions in relation to the memorandum signed by Mr Saraz, but also by her behaviour in immigration. We wish and we will continue to wish, there will be national harmony and there will be no such positions in such a critical place for the country, not just for the government - and this is the important - time points. In the criticism - and I have to say soberly - you have made it quite clear how the government sees this memorandum, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that we do not underestimate it at all. We hardly think it to be escalating from the Turkish side, but we are absolutely obliged - and I think we all share it in this Chamber - to highlight the essential issues of legalisation that cancel its very existence. The Greek side is not at all prepared to accept that this text is a valid legal text, signed between two other countries, not only because that is the national interest, which is obvious, but because that is the right one. You can understand - and that is why I do not want to expand to the National Representation, we will see this much more openly and much clearer in the Foreign Policy Council - that there was an obvious advance. You saw how this advance had evolved, immediately after Turkey's announcement that it had signed this memorandum. In fact, there have also been a number of dissuasive measures. However, in view of the conditions in the Libyan territory, Mr Saraz and the Foreign Minister, Mr Siyala, who had given me September in New York, the assurance that this text is still a long way from international legality, and that he will not be signed, has come to sign in Istanbul this alleged memorandum. I say again, we don't underestimate it at all. However, ladies and gentlemen, we are not at all prepared to discuss this at all, as if it were a valid text. I come to the measures of the European Union and the measures of the United States of America. The European Union in the Council of Ministers has decided on sanctions against natural and legal persons. It is at the stage of specialisation against which natural and legal persons these measures will be taken. There is no delay in this. As far as the United States is concerned, you know that the climate in the United States Congress and in the House of Representatives, in the legislative bodies, is extremely heavy for Turkey. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs issued the communication using a heavy vocabulary, and this communication took place hours after President Erdogan and President Trump met in London. I have to tell you that we feel that the country is using its ruins in the best possible way. I conclude with the question of inconsistency, Mr President, to which I am obliged to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u166	And the question of terrorism, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u167	Mr President, we are not prepared to discuss with anyone that has relations with terrorism. This is not the position of the government of the country. We therefore come to the question of the confidence-building measures of the Ministry of National Defence. First of all, I say again, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of National Defence, but the responsibility for the country's foreign policy lies with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister. There was no government source, neither the Ministry of National Defence nor the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which announced the interruption of discussions on the confidence-building measures of the Ministry of Defence. It'd be the wrong big one. We have all agreed that, despite the crisis, we have to discuss it, because it is the only way to degrade the tension. Indeed, there was journalistic information - I honestly say to you, I have no idea where you came from - which, for a couple of hours, played something that did not exist as a reality. There is no - and please check - any government position expressed by any government, by either of the ministries, either the Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which speaks of stopping confidence-building measures. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you this, and I say this as a general position. I will attempt, at the Prime Minister's request, to use my own vocabulary, expressions, styles that suit the work and the difficulty of the moments. I will also try not to exacerbate party conflict to the minimum. Please just weight what I'm going to tell you. And I say it as a description of things and not as a criticism. Everything that happened was done and revolted in the elections. The problem of the situation and the bilingualism of the former government was as follows: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence managed foreign policy as two distinct entities. He had another foreign policy the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and another foreign policy the Department of Defence. Both of these bodies, and you know that, ladies and gentlemen, they did not communicate. The former Prime Minister's office was required to operate under the diplomatic counsel of the former Prime Minister in the form of a foreign fire policy. So, with all due respect, I would like to say that it is unfair to have charges brought against this government for inconsistency. He's overreacting. In any case, I must repeat what I said in the government's programme statements. On foreign policy, the government hears and consults the parties in all things - it is simply my portfolio, and that is why I have no opportunity of placing myself on the table for the rest, there are the ministers responsible - and it is in agreement with the opposition. The red line for the government in the public debate on foreign policy is populism and patriocapathy. From there on we are completely at the disposal of both the parties and the National Delegation for Consensus and Consensus, because that is necessary and that is our national interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u168	Four parliamentary representatives have spoken, firstly with Mr Tsakalotos. Come on, Mr. Chakaloto, in Step. Here are Mr. Loverdos, Mr. Lebanon and Mr. Gregoriadis. Then we will continue with the list of speakers. Mr. Chakalato, let's agree on time. Because it's counted as a dentist, should we go to five to six minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u169	With a little tolerance, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u170	Okay, there's always tolerance, but let's delimit time and see. Mr. Chaakalot, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u171	Ladies and gentlemen, I respect what Mr Teddy said about foreign policy. I have heard the Prime Minister say that the government and himself would never use foreign policy for internal consumption. I want to tell you that at least we, the symbols and the symbols, do not have a recent memory loss. We don't have it because we remember when Erdogan was here in a meeting with Mr. Tsipras, who Mr. Mitsotakis was saying that Mr. Tsipras didn't even see him because of Turkey's provocativeness. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We remember, when I was at Eurogroup, New Democracy MPs and officials who have taken a government position to say: "Westa, Gerun and Vlad, Wolfgang". I also remember the Macedonian. I remember a little. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I remember how you used it. I remember that many of you did not believe that it was treacherous or that it was a bad deal and you used it to win the elections. Let's go down. Unfortunately, Mr. Mitsotakis is not here. He doesn't have to be here, nor is he forced to watch the whole conversation, because man has a thousand things on his head. But since the Treasury doesn't answer our basic questions, we have to get an answer from somewhere. Is it or is it not true that other conservative governments, elsewhere, that have reduced business tax with a view to increasing revenue and growth, have they not achieved it, such as Trump and May? Do you have any analysis of this? Is it or is it not true that ELSTAT reviewed the growth of the first quarter from 1.1% to 1.4% and the second quarter from 1.9% to 2.8%? Does that explain how you made the budget surplus rather than some magic wand that Mr. Stavros or Mr. Mitsotakis or Mr. Mitsotakis have? Is it or is it not true that in the budget you sent to Europe, does it say about the available income that 10%, which is below, will take 72 euros and 10%, which is above, EUR 353 euros? Is that going to face inequality? Is it or is it not true that for the large body of pensioners and wage earners the tax will be from EUR 15 a month? Another category will be EUR 15 a year and in other categories it will be EUR zero. Is that going to face inequality? Is it or is it not true that of the 600 million for business, 80% of it will go to 2% of the businesses, or about six thousand companies? Is this going to help small and medium-sized enterprises? Where's your policy to deal with inequality? Have you ever followed the European and global debate on inequality, which is scientific, political? They talk about it everywhere. Have you followed the debate on wage stagnation, which even concerns right-wing governments? Are you going to deal with this by reducing collective agreements by limiting the possibility for trade unions to arbitration? We have heard Thanasis Paphie's speech, with which I agree, except for one point. Because, Mr Pafile, we increased the wages paid to employees in tourism with expansion. Why are you doing this? Why are you bringing a bill to limit the possibility of protests and what you are doing for collective agreements and for arbitration? To raise wages? To get away from wage stagnation? It is a policy with which we will continue to have minimum wages. Ladies and gentlemen, the suppression of the government is not by chance because the policy of Trump and May, like Mr Mitsotakis, cannot be hegemony on economic and social terms. It cannot incorporate in economic and social terms a large part of the working class and middle classes. That's why she can't be hegemony, and she has to rely on suppression. Suppression is a component of your policy. Why, as Mr Pafilis has said, if these things are so nice, if they will help the workers and the middle-sizes so much, why do we have to stop protesting and limit them? Why do we have to limit the strikes? Since there will be no strikes, because everyone will be happy. What you do with authoritarianism everywhere in connection with both refugees and workers is a component of your policy. We call on the workers, the young, the whole world of work and the opposition parties, the JRC, the Mer25, the Change Movement, to have an important front on both lines. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more minute, Mr President. The first division line is inequality of all kinds, whether it is income, whether it is wealth, regional inequalities, or it is access to social goods. The second front, the second division line is rights. We cannot sacrifice rights and leave a liberal city, because you do not come out of economic policy. This is not the case and you will have resistance inside and outside the House. We hope for a great movement, which these two requests, rights and equality, will come together, bound to overthrow a government that has neither social nor development plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u172	The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Loverdos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u173	Mr President, I would like to begin by linking today's debate on important foreign policy issues with yesterday's debate and condemning all political positions within this Chamber, which racistly turns against our fellow citizens and others, on the basis of which religion they accept and to what God they believe. It's the wrong criminal on two sides. First of all, because Greece is an area of religious freedom and you cannot turn against your fellow citizens because they do not believe the same things as you do, they do not embrace the same religious dogmas, they do not confess to the same faith and are, above all, - above all, - in relation to the issues we are discussing - and from a national criminal point of view to the Muslims, when on the subject that concerns us, as a major foreign policy issue at this juncture, our allies are the majority of Libyans, their own Parliament - and it is very positive that the invitation of the President of the House of Representatives of Libya to Greece in the next few days - and the largest number of powerful Gulf countries standing against Turkey and Qatar is the supporters of a so-called government, which has signed a so-called agreement. So yesterday's debate, which was caused by a position, is unacceptable from the point of view of the Constitution and democratic rights and national injuriousness, in so far as it does not take into account the consequences of this reason. As far as today's debate is concerned, I think that the issues have been dealt with in many respects. I repeat our proposal. We believe that this crisis that exists today or that goes beyond what we have been calling Turkish provocation for decades. It's a violation of our sovereign rights. And the routine phrase against this violation is not what the country needs. And because in order to respond resolutely, in order to respond to the way it should be done and in terms of its own diplomatic and defence powers, this violation presupposes national unity, this national unity presupposes common information resulting from conciliation procedures. And the highest form of such consultation is the Council of Political Heads. That is what Mrs Gennamas said after the Prime Minister's speech. He stressed the need for red lines, which should not be red lines that we exchange in our internal political dialogue, but which have been expressed in the most accurate way to our interlocutor and, in this regard, to the Prime Minister's interlocutor, the Turkish President. We were struck by the attitude of the Prime Minister who disregarded our creative political speech. If he did not want to respond to the red lines he has been asking, and if that will be said at the National Foreign Policy Council, as he has told us, or at some bilateral meetings of political leaders, which may be made, he could comment on what the President of the Change Movement has been taking a real responsibility at the very first moment, but he has also expressed in the Chamber today. We are very close and we are condemning the Prime Minister's attitude. Now, as far as the draft law for which we are yesterday and today in discussion for too many hours is concerned, I want to make three points. The first point concerns you, Mr Minister for Finance. I would like to say that in the past five years, but also in this five-month period when I am a Parliamentary representative, I was careful to be fair. Although I have experienced what I have experienced from the past majority in foreign policy, defence, but also economic affairs sometimes my word was unified, of course, critical, but creative. He was never a fiancé. So before I criticise, I acknowledge that your speech yesterday, the first speech of the Minister of Finance, which I heard after 2009, did not only stand in national accounts. For so far, obviously under the pressure of the memoranda, but also of the view that each of your colleagues was seeing the issues, their placements in plenary were statements on national accounts, revenues and expenses. You have made a place with emphasis on the private economy, which is the lever of the operation of the economy of the country, of development, of the future of our children, of the Greek society. And I would stress that, I have listened very positively, and that is something I am telling you from this step. However, in our concern for a financial area - which I expressed with a question from the benches when you were talking about - you were kind enough to answer me with three explanations. In particular, in the question of how there was 1 billion budget space for 2019, despite all your policies, such as HISPIA, you have given me three explanations. And to be precise with what I'm about to say, I got your speech after. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Firstly, you said that we do not go beyond budget expenditure. This, however, is not a production of revenue. They're avoiding costs. Secondly, you said that in the economy there is a climate that is positive, which I recognise. The climate, however, cannot produce immediately revenue. The climate tends to move to the economy. If it's upward, you'll have positive consequences in the future. Alas, if any parliamentary power ignores the concept of the economic climate. That is why there must be national responsibility when we talk about the economy. And I think the Change Movement gets excellent. I repeat, however, that the climate does not immediately produce revenues of some hundred millions. The third is the one hundred twenty instalments, namely the tax arrangement. I do not know if it produces a billion dollars of money. And since we don't have the relevant statistics, the relevant tables, I would ask you when you take the floor, to give the National Representation to understand how this 1 billion turns out. We're talking about a tax draft law. And our question is absolutely in the context of the tax draft law and it is not a matter of budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u174	Mr. Loverdo, please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u175	I'm gonna need one more minute, Mr. President. I still have two issues. I'm going to get through one thing too hasty. I said yesterday that in relation to the stock options - Mr Besyropole, I address you - the reduction of the bonus tax to 15% concerns incomes of workers in large enterprises above EUR 100,000, while in medium-sized enterprises with an income of EUR 35 000 to EUR 40,000 if a bonus is added and we have a tax change, this bonus is taxed with 36% to 44%. That's unfair. This 15%, 36% to 44% - I am referring to the stock options, not in general - you said that it is not the case. And because you made sense to me that it's not true, I told you that my information is both primary and secondary and I insist. When you get the floor - if you want - answer this review. Finally, in the explanatory statement, ladies and gentlemen, the Scientific Service of the House highlights problems. And why am I saying this now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u176	We did so yesterday, but they are not answering, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u177	I say this, Mr Colleague, with the case-law of the Council of State. I am not saying this to make it smart that I read the report from the Scientific Office of the Parliament. I say this because the plenary is the only room for correcting the problem if there is one. Those who have been ministers to the previous government - Mrs Ahtsioglou has in mind - know the case law of the Council of State that she judges - let us say - insurance on the basis of the adequacy of a specific restriction.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u178	Mr. Loverdo, you have to finish. I'm giving you a second reminder.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u179	I'm closed, Mr. President. So you have at least two provisions here that I have underlined. Articles 33(5) and (6) and Article 7 relating to 30% to which transactions made electronically are to be increased so that there is also a relative relief. Here, we have the observations of the International Monetary Fund a few days ago, which said that the use of cash money is a legitimate use and the restrictions on this use must be reasonably specified. We also have the relevant, about identical, reference to the explanatory statement. You cannot change the explanatory statement. You can't change it now. At least that was true. If you can, do it. The only way you can support your provisions is to take the floor on this and give those clarifications when judged - and if judged - the constitutionality of the arrangement, the judge will find in your own word the explanation he needs. I have no more time, unfortunately, to conclude my remarks. I'm holding on to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u180	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr Lebanon has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr President. I will try to be very brief. The Prime Minister, as he would have had to, has today repeated seriously, moderately, but also strictly, our country's positions on the issues currently facing Turkey's provocation. The basis of his speech was to do with international law and national self-confidence. The choice to come to inform the House today shows its clear willingness to dialogue and national understanding. I think that's clear. In this context, I think it was entirely in line with this philosophy and position of the former President of the Parliament, who was calmly placed and thus showed that there is this mood on his part - we wish and believe in all the fact that Mr Voutsis spoke today - to have this national understanding at a critical time in our national affairs. Of course, in this context - and I repeat that, in our view, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who was here a moment ago, said that Mr Mitsotakis' speech was incomplete. It was not incomplete, but in view of the meeting and information of the parties on Tuesday - which is a political choice - it would obviously not be more detailed today, but it gave the outline and said in particular what had to be heard here. Mr Voutsis also said that his position was divisive, because he burned down the conflict - a speech by the former Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, to the parliamentary group. And that's what I think she got a little off the hook. It was not splitting, it simply burned down the fact that at such a critical moment and before the meeting of the Greek Prime Minister with the Turkish President, Mr. Tsipras made this fierce and negative position, while he should at least wait to see what the results of this meeting would be. He used the argument that at his meeting a few months ago, about two years ago, Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Erdogan in Athens had done the same thing the New Democracy had done. That's not it. I respect Mr. Voutsi, but he may not remember that well. The current Prime Minister had never put up a negative stand for the upcoming meeting at that time. Of course, the New Democracy had the right to comment on it. But I think that is clear and I would like it to be recorded in the Chamber today. Mr Tsakalotos reiterated that in his place. I think they just don't have a good memory of events like they did at the time. On the question of terrorism raised by the former President of Parliament, Mr Dendias said that we are not aware - and this is the position of the government, but of the New Democracy too - that a party or the Greek Government may have to do with terrorism. But again - it is not a duty of the former President of this House - a statement had been made by the Prime Minister who said in particular that the security services of our country are operating seriously and effectively, meaning exactly what Mr Dendias said. On the question of confidence-building measures - we spoke about it yesterday in this Chamber - the position is given. I think we've all figured it out. These were some leaks of media from themselves. There was no such intention from the Ministry of National Defence. We said the Minister of National Defence was with the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister in London and it is clear that the Greek line is uniform and there is no inconsistency between its institutions and its ministries. I would just like to talk about registration and history, but also about the dialogue that will follow in the next few days, to come back to the first, that is, what the Prime Minister said today about Mr Tsipras' speech. It has been used much and the charge against the Greek Government is used by many that we are supposedly pursuing a soothing foreign policy. This category is practically going to indicate that there is a hypocrisy and inefficiency in our foreign policy. The older may correct me, but I think this term begins on the eve of the Second World War, when it was used to blame England at the time for retreat against Germany. I think that especially nowadays that such arguments for micro-party and political benefits must not be used, especially when Mr Tsipras's basic argument, but also Mr Voutsis's, was that during their own effort, such as the Prespes, for example, they were critical of - let us say - right in a similar way. It wasn't similar, but if any, that was their argument. It can't be ours alone. Firstly, there should be no criticism of national issues in this way. Secondly, there was no such position on the Prime Minister's side on any of these national issues. In conclusion, Mr President, in relation to the Prime Minister's leaving - and Mr Loverdos is right to point it out - his presence here today was extraordinary - which we all know - is suffocating, the conditions are very pressing and that is why he has left in a hurry. In no case would it be possible to insult Mrs Gennamas and, of course, the party she represents. The answer to the red lines was given by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and it was clear that the red line is fanaticism, patriocapilia and populism. I think your party will have the opportunity to discuss this on Tuesday with the Foreign Minister. As for the Council of Political Heads and your position, Mr Loverdos, as well as the President of the Change Movement, if Mitsotakis chooses to make a Political Heads of State or if he will follow, if he will take his own responsibility, it is clear that the responsibility has been taken and moves in the direction that he has analysed us. I don't have to repeat them. The circumstances are such that it does not think that at this moment the Council of Civil Liberties needs to be convened. Your meeting will take place on Tuesday and beyond that, which we all hope will be positive for our interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u182	Mr Gregoriadis, Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u183	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me make it clear that for us, for Mera25, the agreement between Turkey and Libya is illegal, since it is not lawful under international law and any move or action by Turkey on the basis of this agreement is for us, for the Mera25, casus belli. Obviously, what we need at the moment is national consensus and understanding for the good of all the Greeks, wherever they come from, for the sake of our country. I will now make a small comment to Mr Tsakalotos on his sentence: "When I was negotiating in the Eurogroup, you..." of the New Democracy meant, "... you are now calling for national unity, you would call the "basa Gerun". You did yell. But we should also remind Mr. Chakaloto that he is not Mr. Varoufakis is still Mr. Chakalotos. It is Mr Tsakalotos himself whose signature bears the third memorandum, just as Gerun and the 'wastas, Gerun' would like. Now, after what I have heard from the Prime Minister, whom I have listened very carefully, you will allow me to make a few comments on your tax bill. This tax bill, as we all understand, does a very simple thing. It takes the surplus from the surplus of SYRIZA, which even exceeded the objectives of the lenders by almost a percentage point, and divides it, it is assumed, to us Greek citizens. First of all, everything that relieves a hungry people, wherever it comes from, for us in Mera25, can only be welcome. But which people, or indeed what exactly part of the Greek people, relieves your tax bill? The numbers here are relentless. Approximately EUR 541,000 will be taxly alleviated by the richest Greeks. In particular, we estimate that from these EUR 541,000,000, up to EUR 450,000, 000 will taxly alleviate the owners of supermarket chains, banks, refineries, large industries and very large and luxurious hotels. As you all know - I imagine - the vast majority of the tax-payers mentioned above did not just squeeze at all, as almost all the rest of us, during the ten-year debt-corporation of your memoranda, but on the contrary increased in many instances and in many cases increased its profits. How did he get that? Mostly thanks to the dismantling, if not to the disappearance of any concept of normal labour relations, which has given it desperately and hardworking hands, but also to the imposition of various cartels, with the tolerance of all, of course, our Memorandum Governments. Why, Minister, do you choose to taxly alleviate these people's companies and not the employees and pensioners? Why are you choosing the vast majority of employees and pensioners to benefit from EUR 0 to EUR 15 per month and in only a few cases is this benefit of touching the vicious sum of EUR 37,5 per month? Why, Minister, do you choose to reduce dividend tax from already low 10% to extremely low 5%? Because I fear, Prime Minister - I address him this time - that your tax bill is primarily a profoundly class bill. Your counterpart in our arguments is that the tax evasions in the big business in our country will cause growth through the diffusion of this new and excess wealth, which will eventually take the form of investments and thus be diffused in the rest of our society. This counterpart, however, Minister, is nothing but an apologetic rhetorical error, since no one will ensure that these people invest the new profits from your tax evasion, that if they invest them, they invest them within our country and that if they invest them in our country, they will invest them in anything that is sustainable. Let us remember the so-called Karamanlis subsidies from 1977 to 1981. These subsidies were intended to upgrade our factories' capital equipment ahead of us at the time of our accession, if you remember, to the European Economic Community. So let us remember these subsidies, which almost all ended up in private statements by the subsidized in Switzerland, creating these same investments in the so-called problem companies in the country. Let us remember Mr Latsis and the LAMDA DEVELOPMENT that they are currently investing in the renovation of the Greek EUR 1 billion, which comes from loans from Greek and completely bankrupt system banks, which we, the debt-governments, have recapitalised and will continue to recapitalise. Finally, let us remember that these big businessmen themselves were the first, if not the only ones who rushed to make their money abroad during our country's threat of being evicted from the euro, virtually allied with our blackmailers - creditors and helping to make their lives with this completely anti-national behaviour in the liquidity suffocation we have all experienced. If we remember all this, we will come to the self-proof conclusion that you lighten them just because they are represented. It is your right, Prime Minister, to represent everyone you want, but it is not your right to be in here that you return to alleviate the poor and unjust of this country. It is provocative for you, Prime Minister, that the only aim is to mislead the Greek people that you are standing at him, when instead of returning to him at least the bloody surplus that he has achieved on his own, you are returning it to those who, in their entrepreneurial behaviour, have now brought him to this position. Why, Prime Minister, do you now choose five months not to see the huge elephant that cuts loose walks in the dark room of our debt-government and which, as you well know, is called a 100% tax deposit? And why now that you've just discovered him, do you just choose to cut off his toenails? It seems like a sadistic irony to all the businessmen in this country to reduce the tax advance from 100% to 95%. Don't you know that this is the main cause we're never going to recover? Don't you know that's the main reason that hundreds of thousands of businesses have put in and continue to put a lock every day? You're a Prime Minister and you know it much better than I do. Why do you not abolish it, if not directly, even progressively, as we specifically propose to you with the amendment we are tabling today? Why don't you? Oh, no. Because you can't. Because you prefer to continue giving ideal prisoner credentials instead of protecting our people. This elephant that you let him today continue to walk at the unbearable weight of every business effort to recover small and medium-sized enterprises and, therefore, any attempt to recover the economy of that country, this elephant, along with the irrational and outrageous primary surpluses, is the most tragic proof that the country has lost its national sovereignty and that you are simply continuing to pretend that you are legislating your tax bills. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u184	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-seven students and students and an educational attendant from the High School of East Kosanis and from the High School of Perdika Kosanis. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Stavros has the floor now. Mr Stavoura, you obviously want the floor to answer a number of issues raised by Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u185	And not only by parliamentarians, but also by MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u186	You want the floor for seven - eight minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u187	That's about it. Thank you very much. I would like to gather some arguments from the very interesting debate that is taking place today, but also to respond to a number of announcements outside of Athens, with more information than the Prime Minister's statement. In fact, interesting thoughts, positions, proposals have been heard. Several of these have been incorporated into the tax bill during these two weeks' discussions. But you will allow me to tell you that we are all actually focusing on the following: there is a reduction in taxes. All of a sudden everyone remembered the reductions in taxes. And I hear from various different parliamentary wards selling direct and indirect taxes on natural and legal persons. I am not here to cultivate expectations which cannot be realised, and I obviously do not have any illusions. Others had delusional. I have to be responsible, serious and honest. I hear from some people talking about social policy, from those who have reduced duty-free - the only Memorandum that reduced duty-freeness was SYRIZA -, from those who abolished the CSCE, from those who increased taxes, from those who increased or imposed health-free contributions to main and supplementary pensions. So they talk about social policy and say they don't have short memory of the weak memory. In any case, we in this government ideologically are firmly oriented towards social, radical liberalism. And I will repeat it: our political convoys are not. They're others. Secondly, I would like to say that I am very pleased We have a limitation. We are under a enhanced supervision regime that has been set up by the previous government and with primary surpluses of 3.5%. So I can easily hear various wings saying that we can suddenly reduce the primary surpluses. I hear the Civic Opposition continue to support it, saying that this could be based on some cash-flows that could be entered into an account and could be agreed with the European partners. I will not say what the European partners say, I will simply say what Mr. Tsipras said at a press conference: "Today I have commanded..." -7 May 2019 - "... and we have opened a special account, an escrow account, to which we submit in the next 5.5 billion euros." Such an account has never been held in the General Accounting Office of the State. What did he order? Where did he give her? No orders, no bills. So we are serious about this House, especially those who have been responsible for positions of responsibility. We have clearly said that our objective is, yes, to reduce the primary surpluses. This will be at the highest rate of economic growth we estimate will have in the next few years. It will be at the lowest and continuously low borrowing cost by making use of the ANFAs and SNPs, the gains from the retention of European bonds for development purposes, which, for the first time, entered the Eurogroup report and the repayment of the most expensive section of the International Monetary Fund, which some had discussed, but had not submitted a request. We submitted it and completed it. Second note: What did we find? As I was very honest about what I delivered, so I will be honest and what we found. And don't many confuse cash with the budget! Don't confuse the cash with the budget! I've been listening to this all the time in the past few years. Honestly, much cash is available, in the wrong way, built, but much, and we will keep it to the benefit of Greek society. It was wrong, with surpluses, with expensive debt issues, but yes, a lot of cash, EUR 35 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u188	Have you troubled that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u189	No, we haven't. We have, however, found a budgetary gap. And how much budget gap did we find? Because these are the measures. We found 396,000 euros in 2019 and 1.050,000 euros in 2020. The official data of the General Accounting Office of the State are the same as the former Deputy Minister of Finance and the present political leadership. For example, in July - to answer questions put - the revenues, Mr Loverdos, were 606 million below the targets. Revenue increased in July, increased in August. Image is good in the next few months. There's a source! The second source: EUR 300 million more rational implementation. I did not say a cut in expenditure, but a more realistic execution of expenditure ceilings.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u190	You said that the budget was respected, you did not increase expenditure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u191	That's right. And realistic expenditure ceilings, which follow us in 2020. Of course, there is no disagreement on the climate. I am presenting in the Minutes how the climate has changed since June, as I table the rate of economic growth that the country would have had if SYRIZA had not come, in relation to SYRIZA, not our assessments, of the institutions. I am also making the great success of SYRIZA, the fall of the country's competitiveness every year since 2015. Every year, they fall to competitiveness! I'm putting this down for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] At the same time, Mr Loverdos, with the clipping elements that I have, the institutions estimated a gap from the hundred twenty-three instalments of EUR 600 million in 2019. The final result is plus 140 million euros from the hundred twenty doses, as this government legislated them, in contrast to the previous government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u192	Plus 140m euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u193	Plus EUR 140 million from less than EUR 600 million that the institutions saw in their own estimates for 2019. So we created the margin to make the distribution of primary surpluses - how much? - 1 billion euros. Thirdly, which I said yesterday, but because I saw a statement from SYRIZA, I repeat: was there a financial space for this government to give anything? The Prime Minister said so too. They had left no financial space. Don't confuse the cash with the budget. I repeat this for once, because some colleagues who often confuse them in previous years may follow. Other cash, other financially. Mr Tsakalotos - I said yesterday and indeed we on this basis and voted for the measures in this House in May - said on 15 May 2019 that there is no financial area at all for any further intervention. On 15 May 2019: “The financial area that was in place we have exhausted it with the measures we have taken”. So zero budget space! [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] What was I saying? That's probably not what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u194	Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u195	The Minister says the same thing. He's not answering the news.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u196	Let the Minister say what he wants to say, because there is a list of speakers, who is very large. Minister, please respond on the basis of what you have organised for the debate and be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u197	We also have new data from reports from your party that don't sound in here. And it's obvious why they don't hear in here, because there are these documents. We found the 1 billion euros. I explained how we created the 1 billion, and explained how the 1 billion euro was built. It wasn't built in a day, in a week or in a month. So when we found a financial area safely, the government's choice was to distribute this financial area. We're on. As soon as the revenue budget went better in July, we reduced HISPIA, which was not due to be reduced by 22%. Additional financial costs EUR 205 million. An additional financial space was then created from the four factors I had previously developed. We have brought forward the heating allowance - EUR 68 million - for the most sensitive and vulnerable groups, which need a allowance this year, so that they can put the heating oil and not get the allowance in June 2020, as the previous government did. An additional space was then created and we went and paid PPC 200 million - PPC's YES - to deal with the problems left by the previous government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u198	When did you do that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u199	Now, this month in December, 200 million extra to save PPC, as you left it, and 175 million to provide emergency aid. I repeat: we have given exceptional aid, which the previous government had given it three days before the elections, precisely to show something to win the elections. Then he gave the so-called social dividend and then the Minister of Finance said that "There is no room for this year, we have exhausted it all the space".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u200	Please don't interrupt. Minister, how much longer will you need?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u201	Three, four minutes. I shall conclude, Mr President. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Mr Barkas, because you did a newspaper cover speech today from what I saw - you had it with you - I answer you so much time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u202	Answer me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u203	Obviously. The first speech you made today, what was it? You had a newspaper cover and I therefore answer with arguments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u204	It's inaccurate, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u205	Minister, please respond to issues that have been raised. Let's not enter into dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u206	I personally speak with texts. Anyone who wants to bring texts, I am at their disposal. I have heard that the 2020 budget will have more tax revenue. Yeah, he'll have more tax revenues. That doesn't mean he'll have any more taxes. Tax revenue is generated by an increase in taxes, i.e. by austerity measures, a reduction in tax evasion and a higher rate of economic growth. This government will invest in the second and third. Not even a tax increase. Not a single euro in the form of taxes. On the contrary, only tax reductions. I heard some people say that the government is not helping the lowest and middle-income layers and invoking the income tax on natural persons. First of all, let us make it clear that, as far as personal income tax is concerned, all households will see tax reductions. Economic policy, however, is not just the income tax on natural persons. The income tax on natural persons reduces citizens' taxation. With ENVIA, the taxation of citizens is reduced. With the reduction of insurance contributions, which will be made in 2020, the available income of the citizens is improved.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u207	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u208	By reducing the taxation of all enterprises, all sizes of businesses, the available income of households and businesses is improved. I repeat, especially those who move hands, because they have never deposited a clue here, that I will answer with evidence. When one responds to one, two, three, four, it's not confusing. Usually some others have confused them before many times. According to the official figures of the Economic Expert Council, with this draft law and the reduction of HICP, the lower incomes will see a 23% reduction in tax burden, average incomes by 16% and higher incomes by 7%. Because, indeed, our tax and economic policy does not have a class mark, it is a development for all, but above all for the lower and medium-income sectors. And finally, I will say one last sentence. I hear all the interlocutors and all the colleagues placed on the tax bill, but they stay in two, three articles. I will repeat where the development sign of this tax bill appears and which everyone supports in and out of Greece and in writing in the official communications published yesterday. For the first time in the Eurogroup it says that this bill has a development dimension, so of all the Eurozone's fellow finance ministers. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Epostolos ABDELAS takes over]] And the titles, not the measures, of the tax bill - to restrain them! - is to reduce the taxation of natural persons for all citizens, in particular for the lowest and middle-income groups, to reduce the income tax on legal persons, to strengthen workers, to support the family, to strengthen social cohesion and to protect them, to attract foreign investment and capital, to relaunch economic sectors with a significant impact on the country's GDP, to the country's wealth, such as building, to strengthen sustainable development, to strengthen corporate social responsibility, to strengthen transparency, to reduce tax evasion, to reduce the bureaucratic burden on tax administration. This means a complete fiscal reform aimed at growth for all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u209	Mr. Chakalotos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u210	Mr President, we have been taught a lesson from Mr Stavrou not to confuse budgets with cash. You don't tell me, Mr. Staikora, when you were in George's Ear at SKAI and said that the pillow was built by bonds, loan and payment stoppage, what was that? Was it a mix-up of budgets with cash? Or was it what we say a little bit of a lie, why is it on SKAI and nobody's gonna know? How many times have you taught us that you cannot build the pillow in such ways and attitudes of payments? Secondly, when we did our calculations for the budget area, was it 1.1% the growth estimate for the first quarter and 1.9% the estimate for the second quarter? So, as an economist, do you think this big review upwards does not affect budgets? And do you really think it can come from minus 300 to 1 billion to come out of 120 doses and the state's household? Is that what you're telling us? Are you serious? As an economist, you say that thing? Is it the biggest development we have ever expected, was it what created the financial area? Third, do you understand the permanent measure with the one-off measure? Do you understand the difference, that the strategy of SYRIZA was not to give gifts before the elections, was it to make permanent measures - that was by the tenth pension - and we were aiming to reduce the dividend? That was our target. And fourth and last...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u211	Reduce the dividend. Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u212	Please very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u213	Please, Minister, let him finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u214	You should also tell your colleagues that you were aiming to reduce the dividend.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u215	Minister, please. From now on...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u216	Minister, please, let him finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u217	...it's not possible to have the conversation as it is. It is not possible for me and Mr Alexiadis to ask questions and tell us about the competitiveness of the Greek economy in the past few years. I cannot tell you what it is that you mentioned in the Commission, which says what the poor and the rich are gaining and whistling. It's not possible. You have to answer. It is not possible to give you information about how much they gain from the 600 million so few businesses, 2%, and to answer something else. You have speeches that have been prepared for you and you say the same in committee, and so in plenary. Tell them at least to have some interactive relationship, to listen, to answer, to see something new. I've heard the same speech four times. Are you going to answer any of these questions? You won't do it now. But I suggest that you and you and we, otherwise, have no talks we have prepared before and we do not listen and we do not respond. This tax law will not reduce disparities, as it did not reduce them in America, as it did not reduce them in the United Kingdom, as it did not reduce them in France. Why do you think that yesterday the world, eight hundred thousand people, was on the way? Why was it? Is it because McCron was sniffy or because he bit the sheet and that of neoliberalism, and can he not respond to the problems of both the populace and the middle layers? We need to have a basic debate on this. How many governments have exactly taken the measures you have taken and did not lead to increased revenue or growth? Can you once tell us your analysis of the economy, the relationship between the main economic sizes, and tell us what target you set the time for the Gini index? What target do you set for time for their salaries more than 10% and less than 10%? Is inequality within your radars or are it easy and do we know who we're helping?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u218	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u219	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u220	Minister, we must go to the speakers and respect the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u221	Mr President, they must answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u222	You can't do that. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Wait a minute, you think I'll leave him and you'll think I won't leave him. That's not gonna happen. It'll take the floor for a minute and not more, because it's the big list.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u223	That's what Mr. Chakalotos said to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u224	Mr. Chakalato, having evidence...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u225	Minister, excuse me for just a second. In order to avoid misunderstanding, I would like to say that the Minister is entitled to thirty minutes and has spoken fifty-five. Don't consider me ungrateful. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u226	First of all, to make it clear that quoting and filing evidence is not bad and it is not wrong to be prepared. The bad thing is to be unprepared. And you are renowned for being unprepared. Did you hear what Mr. Loverdos said a moment ago in his speech? He at least said we made an effort - he said it more politely, but I want to be modest - to submit ten elements to open up a dialogue and discuss it. You're generally airborne.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u227	I told you about the budget you submitted to the Commission. It's yours I used.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u228	Second note...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u229	Please, Mr. Chakalote. Minister, as soon as you can, please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u230	Secondly, let your colleagues know, who are protesting today, why we did not give the 600 million allocated last year, that you said that your aim was to reduce the dividend. You just said - and you said it exactly, I hope you won't fix it in the Minutes - that it was intended to reduce the dividend. So don't say this year you'd give what you did last year. After all, your signature is clear here that there was no room for a euro. And when you were told by some of Parliament's wings "reduce another tax", you know what you were saying? "Tell us where you will cut to do this." So attention to what you're saying. Third observation: Yes, we have a different development model. Your development model has failed. They relied on tax increases.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u231	Minister, actually.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u232	We will go to tax reductions and improve the composition of wealth. We will place greater emphasis on the second and third components of wealth, investment and exports, than on consumption, to achieve the productive reconstruction of the economy in which you have failed. Fourth point: Your assessments to share were not with 2% growth, which we appreciate at the end of the year. It was with 2.5% and 2.5% you won't succeed. So any review is for 2%, not 2.5%. You did it with 2.5% growth, and now we hope to go to 2%. So your assessments were at a higher rate of growth. Last year's budget is your signature. I think you'll recognize her. And last point: budgetary and cash. Are we confusing? Didn't you say that 5.5 billion cash will be used to reduce budgetary targets? Are you confused? And, yes, we said that the cash assets, which are EUR 35 billion, were erroneously built and, yes, according to the official figures from DPRK have been built with continuous debt issues, with an internal payment stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u233	How is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u234	With an internal payment stop. What's up with that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u235	Minister, finish what you want to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u236	Don't you have a picture of the time you left and other sizes?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u237	Is that a cashier?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u238	Oh, no. Do you therefore have no picture of how much they were not recorded in the budget? So when you say budgetary and cash, don't teach me any lessons. You said, and abroad have an opinion, that 5.5 billion cash to reduce, allegedly, primary surpluses that are budgetary. So a lot of attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u239	Thank you very much. Mrs Lykoulis has the floor. I apologise for those who went through before you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u240	Ladies and gentlemen, with many obstacles, even though you all respect Members. The speakers, the special speakers, the ministers, you all respect them, but only when people talk about it. When you talk, no. Finally, everything around is changing and everything is left, ladies and gentlemen. And I say this in the name of knowledge, because we are the ones on the one hand and populism on the other. Unfortunately, on the one hand, the saviors who spend the honeymoon and the Minister can also courageously say about development. But what about you, critics recently? Memorials do not allow you to say that it bit off the lane of liberalism, Macron, at the same time that, on your back, the most liberal left of the last few years of Europe has created this party that sits behind you. So don't say that, especially when we discuss these bills. I think it is at least an insult to elementary intelligence and to recent memory. The parties, ladies and gentlemen, are rotating in power and the wishes for change are, at least, essential. The admonitions from economics, however, are always the same and in the same direction: "Strengthen your tax system, do not bring us forward to unforeseeable". Everyone who is interested in investing in the country is prevented. Frequently changing tax arrangements are a sign of insecurity and markets, investors detest insecurity, emphasise. None of this, however, seems to be touching us. We are absorbed by the auctions for who will bring the biggest tax exemptions, completely randomly and by miracle just before Christmas, just before the elections, tax exemptions that will be sold by the pro-government news reports of 20.00 - in all the tickets, you all hosted - tax auctions in order to mock citizens' ears in order to get away from the political competitors regardless of the state of the economy, regardless of the country's financial situation, the best. That is why we continue as a state to legislate with the logic of day by day, 'we have made it today'. That is why we have, as a state since the post-population to date, more than two hundred fifty tax laws. This is why the United States is in the third place attracting foreign investment internationally, while Greece is in the seventeenth. In support of what I say, ladies and gentlemen, you in five months' time as government brought two purely tax bills, one here in a celebratory way. You celebrated in all ways. Of course, the rest of you were confined to speeches. Then you were having fun with HICPIA and saying that the rest won't come. Now the rest is coming. Now you bring a tax bill that wants to cover everything that you, at least in the election, promised with a title, but with no substance. The good intentions and only will not get us out of the vicious circle of permanent loans, of low investment, will not get us out of the permanent construction of the Greek economy in the last positions from the relevant economic soundness lists and attraction of investments. In conclusion, I would like to mention some of the elements of the bill, which I consider to be important. Its positive elements, which contribute to some extent, are tax concessions to natural persons with incomes of up to EUR 10,000, while reducing the lower rate from 22% to 9%. The result, of course, of an income of EUR 9,000 is the tax relief of EUR 47 annually. Thereafter, for revenues of EUR 10 000, there is a quid pro quo of EUR 177, while for incomes of up to EUR 20,000, the payroll with a child is reduced and nullified with the situation getting a little better for an employee with two children. I bring it as an example, because you will tell me the Government: ‘It is good. We are still in the first few months of normality." As we gather, however, from the point of view of the reverential minister of finance, that is where the grand order begins, probably since he himself considers that the middle-class threshold is set at the annual income of 6 000 euros. However, it is the case that this tax bill does not come alone. Nowadays, ladies and gentlemen, the 2020 budget is also being discussed in the relevant committees. It has nothing to do with the European association which the government has attempted, at least with its first announcements. Unfortunately, nothing has been done to reduce the overcrowding of 3.5%. We haven't seen green light in this direction. Unfortunately, however, there is also a more specific issue, to which I wish to refer today. As far as farmers are concerned, it is necessary to adjust to the actual data of the provision concerning losses incurred by farmers in the course of agricultural activity. We protest strongly. It should be possible to offset losses with profits from other business activities both within the same tax year and in the following time when the agricultural activity in the income tax code is considered an income from business activity. It's unfair. Today, what is true is that the loss from a rural business activity can only be offset by profits from a rural business activity.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u241	Where's the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u242	Wait a minute, Mrs. Lykoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u243	Here's Mr. Besiropoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u244	Yes, yes, Mr. Undersecretary is here. I'm sorry. Carry on, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u245	What happened? I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u246	Something procedural.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u247	Procedural, Mr. Pappa, while a colleague speaks to you in Stepma?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u248	Mrs. Liikali, it's not Mr. Pappas's fault. It's my fault. It's not Mr. Poppas' fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u249	You scared me with your voice. Why are you yelling like that? What kind of need makes you yell all the time? What's the need for you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u250	Mrs. Lykoli, it's my fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u251	For procedural reasons, Mr Colleague, you are going to the Step, as we go up when we want to know something and find out about it. I imagine, however, that you have misunderstood the political savoir vivre. How much time do I have, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u252	I'll give you as much as you like.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u253	So I was talking about agriculture, and I said that it is unfair what is happening with farmers, that damage cannot be offset by profits from other business activities, both within the same tax year and beyond, since the agricultural activity in the Code of Income Tax is considered an income from business. Furthermore, I must also highlight another issue that is very serious. It is a key area, Mr Minister, that can help the country to come out of the vicious circle I described earlier. The farmers for their little - very fair demands set back on the national roads, starting from my prefecture, Larissa, and my homeland, the Platikabu node. And how can it not be on the roadblocks since agricultural income is constantly falling, production costs are constantly increasing, their products are sold at degrading prices? Here, then, is a glorious field, to control the chain from production to the shelf of the supermarket and can justifiedly duty-free oil, as the Prime Minister himself had promised them from Elassona. It is a regulation that we do not see anywhere in your supposedly ambitious tax bill. It is a regulation which, if you had worked out, as you promised, would obviously find us in complete agreement. The New Democracy, however, also pre-electionally from Larissa and from Elassona, said that when taking the government, it will give particular encouragement to farmers to cooperate. It is a fact that many causes led the country's farmers to abstain from the collective forms of action. In particular, however, with the last decisions of the previous government, the one that called on insurance and income insurance, increased taxation, so that farmers choose to be away from cooperative organisations to avoid pricing the products they produce and sell. So cooperative organizations, unfortunately or happily, cannot trade a product without invoicing. In this context, therefore, the New Democracy said it would introduce tax and other measures to encourage farmers to cooperate. In this bill, the Government's incentive for cooperative farmers is in Article 2(2). In this article, therefore, it is stated that profits from business activities acquired by agricultural cooperatives are taxed at a rate of 10%. However, this measure, Minister, does not give the farmer any incentive to cooperate, since for the sales invoice for their products in this cooperative it will normally be taxed and if the cooperative has profits and distributions to its members, then they will be taxed by 10% and every member who gets the dividend will be retaxed. So if that's what your government thinks of as an incentive, then I guess it's totally different. To conclude, even after many obstacles, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the tax bill under discussion, in our view, is far from being reformed. It is far from being a developmental character, although I have heard the Minister describe it as such and that they have published studies and surveys that say they have a development dimension and a sign. It is something, however, that has not been tested in the future. With these and your own regularity, however, we cannot understand it. For it passes under the bar of what we in the Change Movement define as a normal economy, as a normal life and as a normal man. Obviously, we feel very different about absolutely identical things. That is why I think that when you hear something from us you will get valuable and important, at least as far as human-centered policy is concerned. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Thank you very much Mrs. Liikali. I'm sorry again, Mrs. Liikali. It's not Mr. Poppas' fault. Tell him a "Happy Years" that celebrates today. Happy birthday, Mr. Pappa. Mr Vassiliade should come to Stepma from New Democracy and the beautiful Pella.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law entitled 'Forum reform with a development dimension for Greece of tomorrow'. It is clear from the title that this bill is still targeted. The aim is to develop and create new wealth in a short space of time, not simply to redistribute it. It aims to achieve this objective initially by reducing households, small and medium-sized enterprises from unnecessary tax burdens. At the same time it creates incentives for a foreign direct investment approach and strengthens corporate social responsibility. Finally, it turns the tax system and makes it fairer, transparent and more operational. Let me refer to a few points which I consider to be the core of this bill. With regard to tax relief, I am particularly pleased that it concerns those groups which are the core of my region's economy, Pella. An import rate of 9% is introduced for natural persons, professionals, farmers, employees and pensioners from 22% today. They favour mainly, but not exclusively, the low incomes of less than EUR 10,000. Also, employees and pensioners in the income category from EUR 12 000 to EUR 18 000 will have a tax reduction from EUR 80 to EUR 200 and the average free trader will have a tax reduction of up to EUR 1.300. In addition, a low tax rate of 10% for cooperative schemes is introduced for farmers. This strengthens the primary sector and especially the Greek farmer, who has seen a disproportionate reduction in his income in the crisis. Incentives are therefore being given for the establishment of agricultural schemes and in future we should also consider incentives for farmers as natural persons to participate in them, for example to be taxed with 10% of those who are cooperatives. We have shared and today we are reducing the company tax from 28% to 24% for 2019. There is an increase in the tax rate of EUR 1 000 for each child protected, regardless of the number of them. There is also a discharge in respect of the contribution of all AIFMs with an disability rate of 80% or more, irrespective of the form of disability. There is a reduction in VAT on infants from 24% presently to 13%. There is also provision for a reduction in VAT on helmets and children's seats from 24% to 13% and, finally, an increase in the maximum number of instalments of the debt adjustment from twelve to twenty-four. In addition to the reductions, this draft law aims to attract foreign direct investment and capital, and at the same time to strengthen the country's competitiveness for the retention of investments through Greek investment schemes. In this context, it is clear and simple the legislation on tax houses. An alternative way of taxing foreign income is to be introduced. The rate of taxation of dividends from 10% to 5% is reduced. Exemption from income tax is provided for and the contribution to solidarity of interest on corporate bonds listed on a regulated market. In addition, measures are introduced to relaunch the economy in important and traditional sectors of the Greek economy. In particular, VAT on buildings is suspended with a licence from 1-1-2006 onwards, while the suspension of VAT also takes on the contribution. The imposition of the capital duty on the transfer of real estate is suspended for three years. Incentives are introduced for the energy, functional and aesthetic upgrading of buildings. In addition to the nature of reducing most of the measures, the plan includes tax measures to enhance sustainable development, such as the promotion of the use of public transport and vehicles of zero or low pollutants. Ladies and gentlemen, mass electrification in towns is much closer to us than we believe and should be. Finally, interventions are proposed with a view to transparency and functionality of the system. Tax evasion is restricted by the extension of electronic transactions. It reduces the bureaucratic burden on tax administration and business, while benefiting taxpayers. There is a mere deletion of the very small debts, the periodic deletion of micro-debits is introduced. Over five hundred thousand taxpayers will again be able to issue tax unity. Finally, undertakings are given the possibility of deletion of amounts of outstanding debts from customers of up to EUR 300, without having to have previously exercised all legal procedures for their recovery. Those of us who have been involved in the retail trade can immediately see the importance of this provision. In conclusion, Mr President, let me say that the draft law 'Forum reform with a development dimension for Greece of tomorrow' is also the implementation of the New Democracy's position that liberalism and social solidarity go together, a position which was again expressed at the party's 13th conference and which ensures the freedom of the individual in a social protection environment, so that he can create. Because individual freedom primarily means equal opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Pella shows the way. Mrs Maria Konnakas, from the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Mr President. As we approach the holidays, the government was probably inspired by the fancy Christmas wrappings that earn impressions, even though the contents of the package are not as imaginable. That is the only way one could interpret the great title for the tax bill with development, he says, a dimension for tomorrow's Greece. And if anyone has not yet taken the point of how the New Democracy Government dreams about the growth and Greece of today and tomorrow, a dream that has become evident from the regulations of the development bill, which have solved the hands of business groups to circumvent collective agreements, environmental conditions and other such annoying obstacles to their profits, of course to say the truth. They are not far from the dreams of the previous government. I guess they're sleeping from the same side. So one can also be buried in this impressive wrapping of the bill, because this has also been invested with the corresponding drum impacts that this bill is moving towards a fair redistribution to alleviate many of the tax burdens. All this festive atmosphere, however, comes to spoil the annoying for all mathematics that unfold stubbornly once you move on to the contents of the fancy package. There the numbers, no matter how many times the additions from the top down or vice versa, will not lead to equal tax relief for workers, small and medium-sized farmers and self-employed ones who will once again be employed by the business groups. Once again the "take everything" fell into the capital and for the populace layers monotonously all these years the mosquito ends in the "give". 93% of tax revenue is paid by the people and the friendly involvement of business groups is only 7%. No matter what gold dust you put, that difference won't be hidden. And what are you talking about? This 7% to reduce more. He doesn't want a lot of imagination to think about who's gonna pay the difference again. Workers, pensioners, people's layers that now pay the bloody primary surpluses with the exceptionally supposed taxes you charged them in the PASOK series, New Democracy, SYRIZA. And you're coming today to permanentize them. These are the ones that have become permanent, Mr Chakaloto. Governments are leaving, but taxes are staying. They don't, of course, live for everyone the same. It brings the bill of significant tax relief for business groups by further reducing their tax rates from 28% to 24%. You also reduce to half the tax on the profits of the shareholders of public limited companies. SYRIZA reduced it from 15 percent to 10%, and now you bring it to 5%. In fact, this relief will apply retroactively from the profits of 2019. From this and only the two tax exemptions provided for in this bill, which are added, of course, to the gifts and facilities that you are making on every occasion, business groups will be won by 615 million euros. With constant primary surpluses, find out who pays the marble. Those who have paid to create this financial area, which you all pay for the EUR 1.2 billion, which you will now share, again giving the lion's share in a handful of business groups over 50% of this revenue and the rest will finally reach a drop in the ocean in popular income. The drum impacts on the deep breath of the workers, the populace, the self-employed have been longened. It sounds really softer instead of saying that we maintain the unacceptable tax advance for next year, which you may never make, but we reduced it from 100% to 95%. But also this breath you say it was given to low incomes, you make sure you cut them off before they even take it. What are they going to pay first with the relief, which at best will be 15 euros a month? The increase in PPC tariffs, which you voted on a few days ago? The increase in insurance contributions that comes to immerse even greater poverty the thousands of self-employed persons who live daily under threat of seizures? THE ENVIRONMENT you supposedly reduced to reintroduce a little to the same level as the increase in the objective values of the real estate? HISBIA, who came as an extraordinary tax on the memoirs, to finally become more permanent than the right to residence, which is questioned every day? The other incidents, which have been made regularly in the form of trade fees, solidarity levies, excise duties and increased VAT rates, even in the basic kinds of broad popular consumption, or health benefits, education and welfare which are once again being cut into the budget? You continue to forget diligently the accumulated burdens that you have all loaded together in the popular layers in all these years of the crisis. These, of course, are not undone by reductions that are evaporating before they can get into the wallet for the workers and no one has anything to do with the gifts you make in business groups. We are not, of course, talking about shipowners, because they have given tax immunity for life on the basis of constitutional safeguards, which none of you dared to touch, even on this constitutional review, as the JRC has consistently proposed. And we have the oxymobile to have tax-free oil for shipowners, something that the farmers do not even see in their dreams. And while shipowners are symbolically taxed and on a voluntary basis, islanders have lost in the years of the crisis and this self-evident right to reduced VAT rates, which should be the minimum facility, due to increased transport costs, but also the other difficulties that are objectively present on the islands. The inadmissibility of the reduced rates with the refugee, first inspired by SYRIZA, for the five islands that you have converted into soul warehouses, is at stake and you want to legalise. So do not try to hide your firm bias towards business groups with supposedly fine words to ensure - in this way - many and well-paid jobs. And that argument has already been dismantled by your course of action. You have proved this by the law that you have passed a few days ago on PPC, which the new entrants are obliged to work on worse terms than the workers so far, with the development bill that gave businesses a gift, in order to call for financial difficulties to reduce the wages of employees without control, but the reality of the labour market itself has proved it, with the examples of workers in the tourism sector, who are still working in medium-sized jobs, despite the record of profits recorded by businesses in the sector. With this bill you have once again shown that your policy is deeply hostile to the workers, the pensioners, the people's strata, the young workers who have nothing to expect from the grandheartedness of the business groups that you are advertising and which all governments have abundantly strengthened. They are entitled and must claim all the wealth they produce themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Mrs. Konnakka. Mr Famelos Socrates has the floor from SYRIZA and the President of the MERA25 Parliamentary Group, Mr Varoufakis, will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u258	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, a long and symbolic day today. It's one day first of all that belongs to Alexis and to all of us's commitment not to feel the authoritarianism of the new generation. Because if the child gets away with it, there's hope. It is a day of "chronic many" for the commemorators, but also a day when our country after the expulsion of Libyan Ambassador, after the irresponsible and illegal Turkish- Libyan agreement, requires acts that will protect our country against violations of international law. There is a fact that there is an upgrade of neighbors' provocativeness. It is clear that this agreement is an act of violation of international law. There are no multilingualisms, delays, microparticipatory management here in Greece, ambiguities and devaluations that we have seen in the previous period. A strong pressure is needed on international institutions and an open dialogue. There is a need for serious management. It's not a matter of good mood. It's not a matter of mutual retreat. Greece requires the explicit position of the international community and the application of sanctions for all the things that are being done. But there is a debate on taxation. I have seen that the Minister who is here today and the rapporteur of the New Democracy also used a non - paper to exaggerate SYRIZA. However, I have seen that this is how the Members and the Minister who came here themselves are also putting themselves in a self-government. New Democracy has a prepared scenario that SYRIZA has exaggerated. Mr Stavuras himself canceled it, who, in order to defend New Democracy, said that the measures of the New Democracy were not much more expensive than the measures of SYRIZA. But be careful. Your measures, Mr. Stakoura, have taken Greece deeper until 2014 in the crisis and have not taken it out of the memorandum. We, although we have had to, manage and get the country out of the memorandum, and the country today has room for tax relief because there has been an honest government that worked for the Greeks - something you did not do for the whole of society - and today we have results. And I have to say that at the time we all put our backs on. Mr. Gregoriadis said something earlier. Mr. Varoufakis is here. We all agreed then. I remember also a letter from Mr Varoufakis on 10-7-2015, who pleaded for that agreement and sent it here to the House. So the country came out of the memorandum because it was forced to go bankrupt because of your own policies, Mr Stakoura. That's what we're clear about. You continue the same recipe of the clientele and state-owned growth model that does not produce Greece. Because you have no record, you cannot create another ideological basis. What for? If you were consistent, you would have come, Mr Stavoura - and this is the second "self" - to say that you were right in June 2019 when you said with Mr Stournara that you needed a credit line and that the programme does not come public. But you are putting your second self-government and coming now and saying that the programme was coming out and that you have told the institutions since July that you have taken over. So it turns out to be the second or third great deception - after the Macedonian, after the refugee - and all the lies you have told the Greek people to get out. You come today with the third self-government you are telling us that you have received the country with a budget gap and that is why you were also wonderful in your policy. I ask: How is it done within a week of taking up the duties to find 250 million to give HIS VIA, and indeed to high and large real estate? Thirdly, self-government, Mr Stavura, and a great lie! You said so too, and if I'm not mistaken, Mr. Mitsotakis said so. But how do you take advantage of the great margins that Greece has thanks to our governance? By giving amnesty to the maritime bankers? By liberating the testimonials from felonies of economic crime? By appointing presidents in hospitals to get their votes in exchange? By reducing HNVY for the big real estate? Or doing another political transaction with this great Fake State Secretary for Foreign Affairs? I saw him today continue the tour in Australia and even tweet his award from that superior to the Church! I want you to explain to us what he finally went to Australia, whether he was on a mission or not, whether he resigned or not. However, your model of growth - no matter what we say - Mr Stournaras has said what it is: the development model of the New Democracy - by a document from the Bank of Greece - leads to a reduction in wages. This is your development. You have clearly said it yourself. Because in the bill, we've cleared three things. From EUR 0 to EUR 17 the benefit for the majority of employees and pensioners. Only 2.5% of enterprises benefit from the benefit and only 1% of taxpayers. And in this bill you found a hole in passing the UAE tax exemption on the contracts of football players and basketball players. Good for you! You found a window to pass such tax exemptions in this bill. But say two - three things about environmental issues. First issue. Paragraph 7 of Article 67 deletes the provision of Article 22 of Law 4613 which provides for the payment of audit compensation to environmental inspectors. What is the government doing, ladies and gentlemen? It bans the only allowance granted to environmental inspectors and denounces the Environment Inspectorate, unlike other services which make paperwork, such as in his own service, and has been denounced by the respective trade union body. In other words, it mitigates the possibility of environmental inspectors being treated and deprives them of the function of the Environment Inspectorate, by depriving them and reducing the incentives for a new scientist to go there. And be careful, environmental inspectors are special interrogatives, increased formal qualifications, which control serious environmental activities both in the public and private sectors. It is the only Inspection Body that receives no other compensation and the abolition of control compensation concerns both mining and energy and construction. In fact, you are trying to completely discredit the environment and that is why you are one of the most environmentally friendly governments. And you are dissuasively operating, wanting to put "dynamic" in the Environment Inspectorate. So I would like you to expressly say: will you take this paragraph back or do you want to put 'dynamic' in the Environment Inspectorate? Of course, even if Mr Stavros takes it back at the last minute, why all you have to expect - I want to say this to you: it's their plan. They brought it back to the state staff bill and took it back. So is there anyone within the Treasury or the Government who has given the mandate to abolish the Environmental Inspectorate and not to allow controls? So tell us, Mr Staikora, who has targeted the Inspection, why, because your Government from the first measures it has taken was to abolish the Special Secretariat for the Environment. Of course, all of this is very much, if you like, linked to a complaint that recently came to us by environmental organisations that the government has received a new investment plan for the Hellenic FRYSOS and has concealed from the Greek society that it has received this project. We were told by the non-governmental organizations at a meeting we invited. In fact, the overactive press office and the Minister who does not miss a chance to go to the media to talk about the bankrupt PPC has not informed the Greek society about a major issue linked to the government's pursuit to revise the contract, proving that the company is not consistent with the contract that gave it much of the time since 2004 and we were right to say that this company could not complete with gold metallurgy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Deception and transaction are the characteristics of this government and all this is proven at all levels. Finally, I would like to say for Article 16, for the exemptions and for the issues of upgrading buildings, but also for electricity. As the measure is, no incentive is given to actually move energy savings forward. Apart from linking it to the aesthetic upgrade, apart from closing the eye to real estate companies, you do not connect it to energy certificates, you do not connect it to the reinforcement of people who are unable to pay, because it did the "Security" programme, that is, you do not connect it to either energy poverty or to the energy and climate plan, and it does not prove that energy savings are being saved, and so it will not count on the performance of the country that is very important and we have a huge energy saving programme. We do not know what will be required through the KHS that you are planning to issue, but there should be criteria for there to be an energy upgrade of at least two levels and zero consumption in these buildings, and you need to connect it to income criteria and not close the eye only to those who have to pay the money to get after tax. Because in our own programme, depending on income, the subsidy was increased and we have been able to make more than 66% of applications for the weaker people at risk of energy poverty. I'll say the same for vehicles. Because in vehicles you do not give incentives to citizens for electricity, but only to companies and companies, without putting corporate fleets which are charged, such as taxis, buses, transport vans and, indeed, take care, without being connected to the withdrawal! In other words, it comes with Article 14 to encourage "corporate fleets", probably for their professionals and businesses, but not for the whole of society, without removing cars from Athens and Thessaloniki, thus magnifying the problems that are created in the environment. It's clear you don't have a plan for the environment or electricity. And it's clear that you're blinding some people with these measures. It is well-known that you are making such a policy because you have steps that motivate the few and you are probably planning to transfer the cost of carbonisation to society, without taking any action, because you do not have a fair transition policy. Even this publicity announcement on liberation, which is absolutely false to Mr Mitsotakis, because he has no plan to implement it, will probably carry extra costs to society.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u259	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u260	But why, Mr President - and this is really the last sentence - is this government really anti-environmental? I'll read you four names. Mrs Asimakopoulou, Mr Kefaliannis, Mrs Vozeberg and Mr Kyrchos did not vote for the European Parliament's historic decision to declare Europe in an emergency climate situation. I think we're letting society understand how unenvironmental New Democracy is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u262	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u263	Minister, will you take the floor after every speaker?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u264	Minister, I want to tell you something. You are not helping the process if you answer each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u265	For ten seconds, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u266	Only for ten seconds, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u267	Because my colleague spoke about a lot of self-government, I have answered, but he said something else. He said that in 2019, I and the President of the New Democracy were placed in favour of the preventive credit line. Bring a statement by the end of the meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u268	Mr. Stournaras has been placed?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u269	Mr. Stournaras is another piece. It's Bank of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u270	Are you confusing it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u271	Mr Stournaras said so. The New Democracy, its President and I have never said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u272	Not even Mr. Mitsotakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u273	Bring a 2019 statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u274	Mr President, Mr Stakoras said 'we are implementing a fourth memorandum'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u275	The superstitious line!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u276	The President of the Merra25 Parliamentary Group, Mr Varoufakis, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u277	Mr Stavros said: 'We are implementing a fourth memorandum'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u278	He's messed up, Mr. President. Bring me, Mr. Famele, a statement by the end of the meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u279	Please don't engage in dialogue. I've called Mr. Varoufakis. Mr. Varoufakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u280	Thank you. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I really want to give you a sense of solidarity, because it really must be bad for you the second time in a few months, you must legislate on the fourth memorandum of SYRIZA, because you must act with the 3.5% you inherited. Of course, you did not show the same solidarity with me when you handed me over with Mr Hardouvels the Ministry of Finance when you gave me a primary target of 4.5% forever. I listened to you before, when you rightly said that you were committed as a government in the context of enhanced supervision. Incidentally, what does ‘reinforced supervision’ mean? It means a normal memorandum. As the CIA has translated, not to say, the term "baskets" into "reinforced interrogation", so the troika, which does not even have the imagination to think about another aggressive designation or share, used the term "reinforced supervision". That's what you have. You have a memorial that you're on your way to. What connects you to the previous government is not only that you are applying the memorandum, it is something else, that you are trying to convince the Greek people that you have degrees of freedom to pursue a development tax policy. Do you have it? Tell us that Greece escaped from the debt-purpose a month or two ago or in the summer of 2018, as SYRIZA says. It's very simple to do it. Take note of the amendment proposed by Mera25 for the complete, immediate and unturned abolition of the advance tax on both businesses and - and this is very important - and the modern-day eloquences with the block, children, young people and not so young people who are forced to work without any protection on the labour market, this year's advance payment of the tax for next year. Instead, let me use a hard expression - to reduce the prepayment by 5%, which from 100% goes to 95%. I know or at least want to believe, Mr Stakoura, that you're ashamed of it. You want, but you do not dare adopt our amendment for the complete abolition of 100% of the advance. You don't dare, because it's a lot of money. It is 2,760,000, or 1.4% of GDP. It is not that you disagree that this should be done yesterday, it is not that you think it is a sound policy for Greece not to abolish the advance payment of the tax. In your text of the draft budget, which we shall be discussing any minute, repeat what I have said since 2010 again and again and that Mera25 is constantly repeating today. In your own words, Minister, at least in the text of the budget, you say that reducing primary surpluses is a prerequisite for the development of the Greek economy. Amen! Then why not do what will restore logic and be a prerequisite? Why do you not accept our amendment? You do not, because as the previous governments of the memorandum arc - and as much as you try to mitigate the situation of SYRIZA and New Democracy - you cannot hide the fact that you have, in fact, joined the strategy of the exemplary prisoners of the Troika, Eurogroup, where a few days ago we played you - once again, as regards the return of the profits of the European Central Bank, profits that - not to forget what these gains are - came out of the bankruptcy of the Greek state. The Eurogroup does not agree to discuss the reduction of surpluses with you. He's still postponing. And he will postpone until he arrives in 2023, when according to the fourth memorandum, which you are applying, will be reduced, anyway, to the unacceptablely high 2.2%. And if it were just the choice to be the good kids of the lenders or the exemplary troika prisoners? You irresponsible obedience took her further. Your Government, if I am not mistaken, appointed as our representative - your representative, I would say - to the OECD on health matters that gentleman, who at the time we fought against the Eurogroup, the troika, in the framework of the European institutions together with some of the ministers at the time of the finances, who - in public - did not say so - closed doors agreed to reduce surpluses to 1% to 1.5%, this gentleman, who you sent to Paris made the known "Grown, hard". And this gentleman you sent him today to represent you. Is it strange that creditors don't give you anything when you show up as your executives the domestic cheerleaders of Mr. Soible's dumbest and ruthless sub-codings, Mr. Diaselblum? Is it strange that you are contemptuously contemptuous about the Yes, men, as Andreas Papandreou warned in the 1970s, even Constantine Karamanlis, who would not want them to be with him and would of course not even send them to Paris to represent him? With this and with this, you come here surrendered to embrace the policy of tips of the previous ones, the debt-government. You share the occupied citizens and small and medium-sized businessmen from the robberies that took them. In your budget, you rightly condemned SYRIZA for the excesses, which they used to give tips. But you do exactly the same today. What's the social dividend? It's just the same policy. As Deng Siaoping called the hardest capitalism he brought to China with Chinese socialism, so you bring an implementing Syrian bill, which you call "neo-democratic", as far as its characteristics are concerned, not to say "new - oligarchal" to be more precise. But let's go to what you don't do. And one you know. And I think we are in the deepest agreement. The essential thing is to abolish this unreserved 100% advance payment of the tax. You didn't dare to do it. Let's go to what you did. Over six million taxpayers live on an income of less than 10,000 euros. You're reducing the rate from 22% to 9%. 0% had to. Anyway, you're fine. What does that mean in practice? Let us see an example of 7 million taxpayers from the 8.9 million taxpayers: a family of employees with a child and an income of 12 000 euros. Of the EUR 690 that they would pay, they will now pay EUR 530, i.e. a benefit of EUR 13 per month, an insignificant amount that will disappear if you submit - and I hope you do not - to the pressures of the International Monetary Fund for tax reductions. Second example: A very same family as a child and the same income, 12 000 euros, which, however, results from a free profession. Here we have a much larger reduction. We have a reduction of EUR 108 a month. That's good, Minister. We welcome this breath to the small and medium-sized ones. But why such an impressive difference? From EUR 108 per month to those who earn their income from a free profession, and only EUR 13 per month for employees and pensioners? You need to think about this. Where the injustice of your privatization policy strikes'red' and becomes unbearable is if we compare this to one of the fourteen thousand wealthy Greeks who say more than 100,000 euro income. Let us look at such an example of a privileged one. It is a taxpayer or a taxpayer with 200,000 euros a year - there are such few, but there are - with a child again. And even though 100,000 are waged, 50,000 are from dividends and 50,000 more are from rent. What's the benefit of this family? It's 288 euros a month. While the benefit to the seven million Greeks, the debt-payers, is EUR 13, it is EUR 288 monthly for the occupants. And if, as the Prime Minister said, you will also abolish the solidarity levy, the monthly benefit will be 1.567 euros, 18,811 euros a year. I know the argument, the new oligarchy argument in favour of such gross injustice. It is the argument that these people, the few who will have money, are the ones who are raising the greatest tax burden. It is true that 95% of the total income tax pays it 5% of the most wealthy citizens, that is to say, four hundred thirty-seven thousand and eight natural people last year paid about 50%, 49.39% of the total income tax of 8.3 billion, i.e. 4,1 billion. What does that mean? Does it mean that the occupants are the Atlantas, who on their shoulders raise the state and pay for the laujico, for the rest of the people? No, of course not. This picture I have just described reflects the picture of the poorness of the vast majority of a people from 2009 to 2014. More specifically, we have three data: In the debt-growth of "Greece" the tax tax travels 225% compared to income tax. You know that. In other words, the state is basically and very disproportionately financed by the weaker, those with an income of up to 10,000, 11,000, 12,000 euros. Secondly, our society has received 360 billion loans in favour of the international oligarchy, of which we do not forget that 50 billion has been given to bankers, so that we do not forget that there are further 55 billion other state guarantees to the banks. Thirdly, at the same time that many lose their homes and shops in the name of return to normality, behind this return to normality, the impressive profit rates of the predator funds that buy these red loans are hidden, and some of them are also involved in them, to whom you will give back EUR 288 a month. So you chose in this country EUR 288 back to the very rich and around zero to 13 euros in the vast majority of many. I am now going through business tax. I will say this once again, since you do not abolish the advance that sends the actual rate of more than 50%, the fall from 28% to 24% is no substance. It's a joke, Minister, and you know that. I would remind you that in this country, in order not to forget, we are talking about 28%, 24%, etc. 99% of enterprises have no profits or have so poor profits, which are not worthy of reason. 99% of the businesses! Only a few, few companies have significant profits, due to the monopolistic, dominant position, supermarkets, refineries and, of course, banks, which, with the guarantee of their capitalisation by the public, both Greek and European, European taxpayers through the EFSF, are speculating at the expense of the Greek people with the charges we are seeing constantly increasing in banking services. So in this country did you choose, Minister, to reduce to the bankers, to the refineries, to the oil companies, to the insurance companies, to the supermarkets, the percentage from 28% to 24%? Merra25 suggests something very simple, which confirms that we should be able to agree independently of our different position. The tax rate for small businesses at 15% not 24%, for medium-sized enterprises 20%, to be at 28%, where it is, for large enterprises. If you want to do something about the big ones, do away with the tax advance. Only in this way will you be able to collect some of the benefits of interacting and make it available to her victims. Minister, it is clear that you and we are expressing two different worlds, different analysis, philosophy, political priorities and moral values. You're with the few, we're not actresses of irresponsible obedience to the oligarchy, whether this is Mr. Dieselbloom or Mr. Schultz or Mr. Vardinoyannis. Even so, we have these differences. What I do not understand, Mr Stakoura, is why in this bill you do not do basic things that you do like in other Eurozone countries, the European Union. May I give you an example of what you could do and where we would agree and we would welcome and be in your ideological and technocratic context? When New Democracy was throwing enough money into the pre-election period on Facebook, to promote your own propaganda, as we did with little money, you contributed to the profits of Mr. Zukerberg from Greece, of which Mr. Zukerberg or Facebook did not pay a single euro tax. The same as Google, Amazon, Netflix doing "gold" jobs in this country. With what right do these companies, these grandchildren, earn on the Greek market, without paying a euro for their profits? Before you are told by telling me that the proposal of Mera25 cannot be applied, what is our proposal? Taxation of cigarettes on Greek territory. Don't tell me this isn't happening or it's an extremism of Varoufakis and Mera25, because it's happening. Done at Austria with 5% on the FANGs, Facebook, Amazon, Netflix, Google. Done at Italy, 3%. It happened in France, 3%, not to talk about Turkey, which went to 7.5% and Indonesia, ladies and gentlemen, who went to 25%. Merra25 is proposing that today, here and now, we move on to an amendment which will tax with 5% the revenues of the so-called FANGs. Get a photocopy of Austria's law, which is your likeness. Why don't you dare do that, Minister? irresponsible obedience to both the troika and Mr Trump's orders? As I speak about the tax havens of the international oligarchy, let me turn to a question I will conclude with. What are you doing with the tax home, Minister? Would you like to expose us internationally to an international public opinion that is mad at the turtles of taxpayers? Article 2 of your bill aims to facilitate tax havens from suspicious areas of the earth in line with the standards of Cayman Islands and, unfortunately, both Cyprus and Portugal, which copy them and deny us the possibility of targeting unacceptable Luxembourg only or the Netherlands or Ireland. Why am I saying that you are facilitating tax-raising for people who are not related to Greece, but who will come from suspicious places? It's simple. You know very well that an American citizen is not going to do this, for the simple reason that he is taxing on his or her world income. It is therefore not an American citizen, it is not a French citizen, it is not a German citizen, it is not an English citizen. What's this about? These are dark characters from the Ukrainians, from Kazakhstan, from Russia, from the Middle East. Why would they come? Because they are given the opportunity to "show" a hundred thousand and to go to their societies, which they are culminating in - their own societies - and to say that they "cleaned" because they are tax residents of Greece. Some will say: "If it is, Baroufakis, to collect the Greek bankrupt state a few francs, what do you mind?" Apart from the fact that this runs counter to Article 25 of your own bill, which is supposed to be trying to put an order on taxation for taxpayers, which are taxed through offshore, Mr Stakoura, ladies and gentlemen, at the global grief of condolence, you have seen the image of Mr Mitsotakis next to Mr Erdogan. I won't say anything more. I know everyone's agony about geopoliticals. In this global gloomy juncture, the Greeks and Greeks are asking for supports where we can find them. What are the two issues that unite all over the world, particularly in Europe and North America? What are the two issues that will determine whether Greece will in the medium to long term find the roots it needs the people of the world? Firstly, the fight against climate disaster, leaving fossil fuels on land. Secondly, the fight against international tax evasion by closing tax havens. What do you choose to do to show our country as a country on these major issues on the side of history, on the side of young people, of humanity? You choose to continue what SYRIZA started, who are now being cut off on climate change issues, but they have brought the mining. You choose mining in Greece and the Eastern Mediterranean and choose the atonement of universal tax evasion, turning Greece into a third-class oasis of dark tax fugitives. You choose the troika, the 'Grouns', the oligarchs, the predators, the oil multinationals, and you alienate international public opinion, which wants to hear from civilised countries? Fair taxation, limitation of oligarchs, democratisation of the European Union, abolition of the troika, immediate termination of mining and abolition of tax havens. It is obvious that your commitment to the wrong path to big issues is given. At least, Minister, take the opportunity we are giving you as Mera25 for a common place in three basic things: the abolition of tax prepayments. Nothing else, do this. Don't you want to do that? Are you so chained by the troika? Put a tax rate on small - small businesses, which suffer 15% and 20% in the middle. And let the complication pay 28%. Do it and 30%. And what I told you before, 5% tax on Greek Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google. Will you dare? I'm afraid not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u281	Thank you. I'll give the floor for ten seconds to the Minister to testify the law-makers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u282	I would like to table additions - recastings for the bill, as I said yesterday. There has been no other amendment. I would also like to say that no parliamentary amendment can be accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u283	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, can we make an agreement to help those in the province? We're out of time and we're going by 19:00. Outside there are walks, so some of you won't be able to travel or get locked up. Do you want to make him five minutes a speaking time from now on or shall we continue?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u284	No, Mr. President. He's always at the expense of the MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u285	Okay, as you wish. Mrs Maria - Alexandra Heads of the New Democracy, who is the prey of the Greek football team!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u286	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is no need for technical knowledge of the subject, but no political feasibility to see that this bill seeks to relaunch the Greek economy throughout the entire range of its activities. With measures - breathing and permanent reductions, this bill comes to highlight once again the clear development policy of the Government of New Democracy. This is a draft law aimed at strengthening economic development and boosting social justice. We continue the cycle of tax evasion, which we opened with HNVIA, with reductions in income tax, reductions in VAT and benefits to property owners and employees. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill, we are creating a framework of lower taxation, both for natural persons - that is, employees, pensioners, farmers and freelance professionals - which in recent years have been considerably and disproportionately burdened by the Memorandum of Understanding - and for legal persons of all kinds. In particular, we are introducing an import rate of 9% on the first scale for natural persons from 22% who are today. This reduction will favour not only those who have an income of less than EUR 10,000, but all the taxpayers, since their income is taxed gradiently. With the tax relief coming under this bill, we directly relieve all citizens of unfavourable tax obligations, but also indirectly strengthen areas such as consumption, savings and employment. In our country for the last two years, unfortunately, against all tendencies, excessive taxes and contributions have increased, so that it is the first to increase taxes between the thirty-four OECD members. In fact, while most countries in the world have made significant reductions in corporate tax rates over the past decade, Greece has increased the rates by three percentage points. This is why we are reducing the corporate income tax rate from 28% to 24%, the tax rate of dividends in the distribution of profits from 10% to 5%, and the advance payment of corporate income tax by 5% of the resulting tax. We thus support all companies regardless of their size and size, as they gain a triple benefit and pay in 2020 reduced taxes by around 30%. This development is expected to work positively not only on the labour market but also on increasing the growth rate of the Greek economy from the low rate of 1.4% in 2018 to 1.8% in 2019 and 2.2% in 2020. We are creating conditions for growth accelerated and increased employment. The tax incentives and the strengthening of employment and competitiveness of Greek businesses can be a key tool for reversing Brain Drain so that, on the one hand, we can keep our young people in the country and, on the other, encourage everyone who is gone and return. At the same time, with the short-term and medium-term improvement of the country's economic climate, this is increasingly attracting investment. Already worldwide, the company seeks to expand its centre in Thessaloniki, by tripling its staff from fifty mechanics to fifty, but also a second multinational company intends to hire forty-five computer engineers and IT infrastructures, strengthening Greece's position in its strategic and development plan. It is obvious that Greece is becoming a point of attraction for companies that provide work and a modern working environment. Tax policy must be adapted to the social conditions of our country. We are therefore strengthening corporate social responsibility, providing incentives with deductible expenditure in this context, because the laws always have to serve society and have a focus on human beings. At the same time, we are introducing a low rate of tax of 10% for agricultural cooperative schemes, because our aim is to promote the dynamic development of rural areas and strengthen the primary sector of the Greek economy. We want to upgrade rural businesses and improve the business environment and productivity in the agricultural sector, both in Ioannina, my region, and Epirus and throughout Greece. We support, therefore, the creation of new rural schemes to help the economic activity of the productive part of Greek society in order to regain our competitiveness in the European and international economic environment. With this bill, we also support the Greek family and strengthen social cohesion and protection, we increase the dutyfree rate of 1 000 euros for each protected child regardless of the number of children, so as to stop the bleeding of the Greek family and strengthen the Greek household, we relieve all disabled people with 80% or more of this form of solidarity, we reduce VAT on infants, recycled helmets and children's seats from 24% to 13%, defending public health and security, on the other hand, to increase the maximum number of instalments of fixed debt adjustment from 12 to twenty-four and in special emergencies from twenty-four to forty-eight, depending on the ability to repay the debtor, by facilitating them. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is the portrayal of hope and optimism in the country's fiscal policy. It is a bill - a cut-off, and for the first time after the country entered into the crisis, a tax bill is tabled to Parliament, which drastically reduces taxation. Today we are voting in favour of a draft law, which sets a new course towards our country's seas of social policy, strengthening healthy entrepreneurship, creating new jobs and attracting investment, a draft law which is consistent both with the electoral and programme commitments of the New Democracy Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, too. Mr. Voloudakis Manosos - Konstantinos from New Democracy and the beautiful Chania.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Mr President, for the compliments on Chania. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are living in the debate on this bill really looks like a joke, i.e. SYRIZA relinquishing New Democracy that it does not reduce taxes enough. This is what any Greek citizen hears, if he's been away for some time, I think he'll think he'll think he's seeing the theater of irrationality or a surreal comedy. We don't have to explain why it is. The Minister did so earlier with evidence showing what the tax burden was. Because I would also like to address those who do not have all the numbers, nor do they want to be followed, I will carry what I think is the conclusion that the summary of the discussions on taxation before and today is a summary. Before, what we were discussing was the new tax, how much it burdens who, if alpha or beta are more burdened. Now we are discussing where the relief comes from and whether it is enough or whether it should be a little more or a little differently targeted. So we were on the right track, because it was the overtax that led to the overcrowding and strangling of the development perspective of the Greek economy. It was for you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, strategic choice, ideological choice, because you have explained it. You thought it was your job to impose taxes, to collect taxes, even more than the objectives of the surpluses that you agreed with the troika and then to distribute them in a way that you thought they were fair. We do have another philosophy, another philosophy that says that you need to lighten taxes, free production powers, because prosperity will come. And that's what's happening. But this does not create the injustice you want to give the impression that it creates. Why? In very simple terms, what you have done in the run-up to the election, what you have announced - in fact - just before the European elections as citizens' reliefs, as benefits and so forth, to help those who were the weak, those who were your target, this is all done. None of this has been cancelled. There are also additional reductions coming for others, a dividend comes from a different policy that has already begun to be implemented. I won't say much. The reduction in the tax rate from 22% to 9% is a characteristic point. And it really seems to me unthinkable that SYRIZA seems to be disturbed by the fact that we are starting from targeting the lowest incomes and blaming us because there is not sufficient relief for the middle. I'll say that, too. Therefore, a reduction in the tax rate from 22% to 9%, an increase in the tax rate for each child of EUR 1,000 - very important, given the demographic conditions - and a reduction in the corporate tax rate from 28% to 24%. You want here to give the impression that it is only about colossians, big capital, multinationals. It is about them too, and it is indeed a way to cause a positive shock of investment in the economy, but that is not just about them. It is also about small businesses. A store in the province, which makes EUR 15 000 a year, will benefit from this EUR 600. Isn't the middle class the 15,000 euro shopkeeper? But I do not want to go any further into this. I will only say for the freelance professionals - because here too there is a distortion of whether or not the middle-class is lightened - yes, there is a greater emphasis on the free-professionals, more so in this bill than the employees for a very simple reason, free-traders are charged with 100% of the advance on next year's tax. So, of course, this has had to be done from there on and on as the employees are going to do better, they should be further reduced. They already have reliefs. I would like, however, to refer to the need for further expansion of the tax base, which is a declared objective of this government and which has been adequately served by it so far. But there is - and I would like to draw your attention - a large pool of money in Greece which is still uncontrolled to date. I am referring to the money, which is transferred abroad through companies, which have developed both in Greece and abroad specifically for this purpose, companies that are not banks, are the ones that are called 'payment institutions' officially and have shops now in all the cities of the country. It is a road to the export of capital, which is used primarily by immigrants - legal and illegal - and of course by anyone else who wants it. In these stores, anyone who wants to make money out of the world can go by just displaying their identity or passport. Today, bank movements are the basis of tax control. The checks of Greek taxpayers and on the basis of their banking transactions are prioritised. However, whoever transfers money from such a store, showing only his identity or only his passport if he is foreign, is never controlled. There can be no stricter control over the fact that all its economic activity remains in the country than the one working here, possibly avoids and sends its money abroad. I do not propose that this activity should be banned or abolished, nor would it be right. But I say, Minister, that I must tell you - and I have told the committee - that money transfers should be imposed by law on this road on the basis of compulsory tax submissions, not only by identity. You have to submit your LNG and then you can sample it with the prioritization that I.R. and this road are doing. Otherwise, we are in fact unfair to Greek citizens and to Greek taxpayers. And because one can say "How can you control immigrants like this?" I suggest that, if he is here for a while, he can instead apply for asylum. The tax base is being widened and tax burdens are being distributed more effectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, too. Mr Yiannis Loverdos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u290	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I wish to wish to all for many years because today is the great festival of Agios Nikolaos. Happy birthday to my dear colleague Mr. Nikos Papapas, who is watching, as I see with commitment the whole process. This is very comforting, that there are some who follow the whole process, like the State Secretary, Mr Besiropoulos. I have heard before - you will allow me to begin with this - a very interesting intervention by the President of the Change Movement, Mrs Fofi Gennimata, who referred to violence. Because today is a very difficult day for all of us because of the murder of Alexis Gregopoulou, I agree with Mrs Gennamas that we must all be against violence wherever it comes from, whether it is the appalling murder of Gregopoulou, whether it is the appalling murder that took place since 17 November or it is the horrendous murder of Marfin officials. For that very reason - you will allow me to say this because I have a burden in me - at some point we all can, from all the wings of this House, get out of a peaceful demonstration and honour the victims of all kinds of violence and Gregoriopoulou and 17 November and Marfin. We could all go out on the streets together, from Kyriakos Mitsotakis to Dimitris Koutsoubas and say "no" to violence wherever it comes from. Unfortunately, our society today is not ready for this, and that is, I fear, a deficit of our democracy. Poor thing. I shall now say a few words about the tax bill that we are discussing today. I have been amazed, following the discourses of the Vice-Presidents, that everyone in the government - what Mr Voloudakis said earlier - is not enough to tax reductions and, at the same time, they say that low incomes are not supported. On the contrary, I would say that the low incomes are mainly supported by this tax bill, and personally, because I am liberal, I would like there to be even greater relief for medium-income, that is to say, 20,000 to 50,000. And I believe - and because I know very well that in the same way Mr Mitsotakis thinks - more intervention will be given there. But, to be realistic, this bill brings tax relief to all incomes. The largest of course, and very low, are with 9% in the first 10,000 euros income. However, in all the tax rates there is even a slight reduction. Even for incomes over 50,000 there is a small, one unit reduction. It's good, it's in the right direction. And that's what we want as a society. I am, at least, pleased to admit that, if there is to be growth in the economy, there is a need for brave tax relief, a generous tax reform, which I hope we will achieve when the financial space is given, I hope, once again, with the cooperation of all. We should all try to reduce taxes further in this direction. However, we must not forget that this bill - which I personally would have liked, I told you, even more daringly - is the first bill, which brings with it years of tax reductions. It's the first bill after a decade of destructiveness for our country. Some reductions are finally coming. Aren't they enough? With you! Make them bigger? Get older! It is, however, the first that leads to a reduction in taxation, and that is important. Why don't we admit it? Why don't we say yes, it's good, at least we opened a road? As far as businesses are concerned, the tax is being reduced from 28% to 24% in order to go to 20% - I hope that it will fall below 20%, and that is also the government's declared objective - for all businesses and small and medium-sized enterprises and the large ones. Because in Greece we do not basically have large businesses. We have small and medium-sized ones. And when we say to small and medium-sized enterprises, to world standards, I would say that they are small, but that's another story. So let's go down. This is the first step and it is a positive step. I would say to you that this is the first time that the budget has been acquired, thanks to the change of government. I'm not saying the government did miracles. To God, I won't say such exaggerations. But thanks to the change in government the financial space was found. Do you remember the dear Mr Eukleidis Tsakalotos, who said last year - when you did reduce VAT on the focus - that there is no financial space to reduce him to the most important part of the focus, where are beverages? You didn't reduce him to 13%, and I hope our government will do it in the near future. This financial area has been found thanks to the reduction in interest rates, thanks to the hundred and twenty instalments, which have increased tax revenue, thanks to other movements and some things have been given. This social dividend was paid which was not due, because you had exhausted it last May with the infamously thirteenth pension, which was not the thirteenth pension. It was found, then, and it was given to a few families. It's only nine hundred thousand and we'd like a lot more to get it. I would personally accept the criticism, if you did it as follows: No other benefits, no development through investment and tax relief. I would agree with you because - as I told you - I'm liberal. And I'm glad to finally hear that you're asking for more reliefs. I wish and that is our goal and this objective will be served by this government. At last, a government really liberal has come in the country, which, with quiet steps - does not need abrupt changes, because the economy cannot withstand them - we will finally be able to lay the foundations for a great recovery of the Greek economy through the strengthening of the private initiative and the entrepreneurship needed by the place. Be well, thank you very much!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u291	And we thank Mr. Loverdo. It is time for the celebration, Mr. Nikos Papapas of SYRIZA, who is raped - to end in seven minutes - to buy his company. I see him! Here, Mr. Pappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u292	Ladies and gentlemen, today is a painful anniversary, a date which cannot and must not be eradicated from the memory of society, the anniversary of the murder of Alexis Gregopoulou. The murder of Alexis Gregonopoulou led to an outbreak of Greek youth, which proved some time later that it was the precursor of a giant new outbreak of the whole of our people, which shocked society and the political life of the country after. Our country's been through difficult times and it's good not to forget so we won't come back. But, unfortunately, the state of government so far does not make us optimistic. Let me make a reminder. It is an issue that has to do with the portfolio, which I had the honour of serving during our own governance. You have brought an amendment that abolishes the committee, which will assess the consequences of the black in the ERT. What are you afraid of? Why? When you violently closed the ERT, the beginning of the end of the Samara government, there were loose ends, contracts and obligations that the Greek State has to serve. What responsibilities are you going to cover? And don't tell me that you don't know, because the president at the ERT is the former director of Mr. Mitsotakis' Press Office. He's directly responsible, there's no intermediate. This is where we have to be clear. I do not know if that is annoying for you, because I have heard too many speakers from the New Democracy saying that it is not a matter of topicality. Of course, it is not a matter of topicality, Mr. Diadiaris, it was not a matter of time for Mr. Condolones, it was not a matter of time for Mr. Father. Let's not talk about this. We understand why you don't want to talk about them, because there's the common denominator around these three faces. In the first - the case of Mr Condoleon - the law has changed, because the position in which you wanted to place him was that of the diploma. The other exchanged a thousand two hundred votes with one hospital administration, and the third one was lying from his degrees to his age. Who's their common denominator? Mr. Mitsotakis. In direct agreement with him, all three were made. And when we talk about Brain Drain here, we need to keep a little low tons. Because if that's the message that we're sending to the new kids, that you're starting to build a local army, and you're a hospital commander, lie about your degree, get loans from state banks abroad, make friends with any political fireplace if you become a State Secretary for the Family at some point, I'm very sorry. The history of Diadiarios is painfully timely, because you are talking about the vote of the relatives. The Greek community doesn't need such liars.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u293	If we search the degrees, we'll get mad.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u294	I come to the bill, Mr. Hatzidakis, which is exactly...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u295	Mr. Hatzidakis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u296	Let's go through the degrees. We weren't so vexed, I have to confess to you. Apparently, now there are some who's looking for all the degrees.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u297	Mr. Poppa, you have three minutes off the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u298	General State of Nice...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u299	Mr. Amyras, please. Let him continue and let the world judge him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u300	In fact, in order not to eat time, these facts come when the greatest fraud of your own state is revealed. And the greatest fraud of your own state is fraud against the middle-class, in which the SYRIZA-free system is the middle-class, and with your election you are exempting it from both the thirteenth pension and the abolition of the solidarity contribution. Did I hear Mr. Mitsotakis saying the thirteenth pension of embezzlement?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u301	Political embezzlement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u302	Did he say an embezzlement? Have we given the retired? Instead of proclaiming him at that time, you stood up and applauded?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u303	Fake!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u304	Fake? If it is fast, you should also give it next year the third pension, and here we are voting in favour of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u305	Political embezzlement three days before the election.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u306	Mr. Amyura, you will be called upon to vote for a budget that abolishes it. They're gonna go to the candlestick of all that shit you told us about crumbs. We have, of course, forgotten, and also the reduction in the tax advance on middle-class people and the reduction in VAT on the middle-rate from 13% to 11%. I would like to ask you this: do not try too much. Neither can you square the circle nor the sun come out of the west. You're 2 million euros behind us. The measures that we voted on and when we came out of the memorandum and the measures that we launched in May were measures because we reduced the surplus, we reduced the necessary surpluses. He is now saying a number of inseparable verbs and that the pillow cannot be used. Really? Seriously, can't the pillow be used when we talk about a financial space, but are we ready to give around EUR 12 billion for the HERAKLIS project? Really? We are waiting for the plan 'HERAKLIS'. Here we are talking about it, see if there is a social sign, if there is a growth mark, if it guarantees the stability of the banking system. And of course, how much the pillow touches, because we are going to rekindle the debate on the financial area, and that is what we want to promise you. And you come here and tell us 28% to 24%, the crown of your policy. 66% of enterprises are damaged or with zero profits, so zero in the clay. Of the rest, 14% say up to 10,000, so very little benefit really does. And from all the relief, 550 million, 80% goes to 2.5% of Greek businesses. This is a mixture, I would say, Reaganomics of the 1980s with the traditional development strategy, the failure in Greece, which only says "tourism and construction". That's where you're going. Of course, the wealthy people in Greece will feel a little more good than the wealthy in Germany, France or Australia who have been asking for more tax for ten years. They are ideas that have really gone bankrupt. With regard to the development strategy - and I conclude, Mr President - there is not one. There is your central liberal unsuccessful idea that by reducing taxes investment is coming. Because in the big works, what we have right now is a freeze. Are you doing well with those mayors who are in the New Democracy? You have frozen the "PHILDIMO". What's going on there? You have frozen the Northern Axis of Crete, you have frozen the Patras - Tower, you have frozen the metro of Thessaloniki and I expect to see what will happen with the major projects for the development of the fibre optic networks. You've frozen these works. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You are tabling a budget that will only come out if you catch 2.5 billion by privatisation, although only if you save 800 million from the operation of the public sector, although you only catch 550 million from electronic transactions and the fight against tax evasion, although only if our economy grows by 2.8%. There are certainities in the budget, as the previous speaker said here, it is not for the benefit of allowances, so he says - that you are cutting 350 million off allowances. You are already starting four months after the election to have very serious problems and these problems your leadership has seen them. And don't think it's accidental that it triggers the election on its own and tells us about double elections. The elections will probably take place earlier than you believe and believe me will not be double, because the progressive powers will give the solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u307	Thank you, Mr. Pappa. Mr Dionis Kalamatiano has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u308	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you have heard it from Nikos Pappa, now you will hear it from me. It's a celebration today, years of it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u309	Mr. Pappa, because of his feast, we allow it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u310	In the context of democracy, you are also allowed to hear them from me, Mr Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u311	You are called Dionysia and celebrate on 17 December.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u312	Well, December 17th. Ladies and gentlemen, it was a very interesting weekend, a revealing weekend, because another deception of the Greek people from New Democracy was revealed. You have created election expectations that come today to be disproved. You built all your election rhetoric in strengthening the middle-class. But you cannot escape what you really represent. Economic and tax policy, as a form of redistribution of income, is a field that irreparably exposes you to your real person, who cannot hide behind the propaganda of your friendly media. After you have dismantled the work relationships, since you are building in the most uncovered and abstract way the end-of-day state, after you began to throw out all the polemic measures of the SYRIZA government, it is now the turn to implement a policy unjust about middle and low incomes. Make an incomplete communication effort to appear as the protectors of the middle class, but the vast majority of the people are at risk from your extreme neoliberal policies. For example, last year you used to slander us, you slandered us about the granting of the social dividend. You said it was "fish". Now you give two hundred and fifty thousand households a social dividend very lazy. Citizens will remember what they received with SYRIZA last year and what they will receive with New Democracy. And I become specific: 629 million were granted in 2016 to a million six hundred thousand beneficiaries. In 2017 750 million were allocated to three six hundred and fifty thousand beneficiaries. In 2018, 780 million were allocated to three million seven hundred thousand beneficiaries. This is SYRIZA. I'm coming to New Democracy now. 175 million were given in two hundred and fifty thousand households. The fact that we have consumed the surplus with the 13th pension is not true is a good argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u313	Chaakalatos said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u314	It's not like that, I'll tell you why. Another thing is pensioning, another thing being the 13th pension and another thing being the social dividend. The 13th pension was granted to partial restoration of gifts and allowances, which you had cut with Law 4093. There was a decision of the Council of State and that is why the 13th pension was partially restored. In fact, I tell you to read Law 4611, which stipulates that it will be given every year. It is institutionalised, passed by the SYRIZA government and must be given every year. The social dividend is predicted to see at the end of the year what a surplus is and we will give it accordingly. But you have taken care of this surplus since July, why? To give 205m euros an increase in the reduction of HISPIA. In other words, a reduction in HISRIZA had been voted on by SYRIZA, you came and gave 205 million additional reductions and 10% reductions in HISVIA to anyone who has more than 1 million. So you have chosen to take care of the large and very large assets, so now you say that they are not enough to give them to the lowest layers. But the people are aware of it. We also had this weekend and the confession to the committees of Minister Stakoura. What did Mr. Stavros say? It's over with the myth about overtaxing SYRIZA. The figures were specific: 10 plus 35 billion meters from the PASOK government between 2010 and 2012, 10 billion meters from the PASOK-New Democracy coexistence between 2012 and 2014 and 10 billion from SYRIZA. So where is SYRIZA's overtaxation? You charged the country in 2010 with your policies, brought measures of 55 billion and blame SYRIZA for overtaxing with 10. Today you come and give benefits. You're doing very well. Why can you do it? Because SYRIZA took the country out of the memorials, left full of funds, a 37 billion-dollar security pillow, ten continuous quarters of development, and even in the last quarter of 2.8% of growth. It is not at all a tachypical development, because it is also provided for in the new budget. So you can and do it because SYRIZA brought the country where he brought it. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, with the tax bill it is clear that low and medium-sized strata have nothing to hope for, nothing to expect from the New Democracy policy. What's the big tax relief? It's 17 euros. What does GSWE say, what do professionals say, what do businessmen say, what do merchants say about this great piece of legislation that you bring today? They say that as a whole it broadens disparities between medium and low incomes on the one hand and large incomes on the other, that it actually leads to a redistribution of burdens or better reductions in favour of the most prosperous parts of the population. Corresponding findings that it does not benefit from this piece of legislation the middle layers of POMIDA and "KATHMERINA", a newspaper that supports you. But even these small reductions, which are envisaged, are being cancelled because you impose additional charges. You've already increased the electricity price. You have imposed an extra tax of 22% for those who cannot collect 30% of their income in electronic transactions. This is a very large percentage. The House's Scientific Service itself - and I invite you to read its report - says that the tax of 22%, "the burden imposed is neither constitutionally tolerated nor in the sense that it does not constitute a tax but a penalty, therefore considered in the light of the principle of proportionality". And the Scientific Service of the Parliament continues, saying 'the proposed regulation does not appear to be in harmony with either the principles of equality and proportionality'. It is important to note specific points that you should take them into account. Continuing my reference to charges, which eliminate the minimum reductions, I say to you: there are more than 20% increases in insurance contributions for eight out of ten non-employers, professionals and scientists. At the same time, you cancel measures SYRIZA had launched. You are canceling the tax advance to 50%, canceling the loss of the solidarity levy for incomes of up to EUR 20,000, canceling the additional reduction of the HPAI and the additional reduction of VAT. What we have, in other words, are extra burdens on medium and lower incomes, so that you can give alleviations to large businesses and high incomes. Gentlemen of the government, the major winners of the tax bill are large profitable businesses and individual incomes over 100,000 euros. These incomes indicate less than 1% of taxpayers. It is true that from the 750 million reductions planned in 450 million go to 2.5% of firms with very high incomes. The remaining 97.5% of enterprises will share the remaining 100 million euros. These are the political choices you make. Finally, I would like to refer to the taxation of coastal fishermen. Fifteen thousand home fishermen are charged with it. You could avoid it, you could give more to medium-income, you could do less "pay" to very high incomes and profitable businesses, but neoliberal obsession does not leave you. It requires you to give a lot to the few and a few. You are opponents of the large social majority, which is why we will be across the street. But you cannot mislead the Greek people for a long time. You've had a lot of things on a lot of people. You prove by your government that you are only caring for the few and powerful. A lot of people will answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u315	Thank you, too. We continue with SYRIZA and from Elia we go to Heraklion. Mr Mamulakis Charalambos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u316	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill on which we are now called upon to place ourselves is a first implementation of the main priorities on which the first budget of the Government of the New Democracy is moving. In other words, the first budget drawn up outside the conditions of suffocating Memorandum of Understanding, due to the financial management of the previous SYRIZA government. The first expansionist, 11 years, budget. The first budget which any government drafted should have decided which social strata and what social categories will benefit from the "fruits" of the first three years of continuous growth of the Greek economy. The first budget that the Minister of Finance, who would draft him, would give a signal about the branches that will be the "motor" of the Greek economy in the decade ahead. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill reveals the choices of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis regarding the above two burning issues. Of the additional EUR 1.2 billion budget area, 700 million are being fruited either by very large businesses or by very high incomes. Reducing the tax rate of legal persons from 28% to 24%, reducing dividends tax from 10% to 5%, reducing corporation tax, investing in immovable property, achieve nothing but alleviating the most wealthy social categories in our country. They achieve nothing but facilitate a specific category of direct foreign investment aimed not at FDI, peak technologies, industry, but specifically to stimulate the real estate market and the construction industry, within the flow of foreign capital in the Greek real estate market. Allow me here to focus on some points of the tabled tax bill that as a political engineer I feel focuses on the construction sector and the expectations of thousands of my colleagues. Some of the measures included in today's bill are positive, such as the previous government's reduction in HISPIA, which will of course be taken back through the forthcoming objective values and the increase of these properties, or the grant of services related to the energy functional and aesthetic upgrade of buildings. However, the majority of these arrangements have the character of privileged treatment not of the small construction sector in the country, but of support for multinational real estate management companies, such as exemptions from the special real estate tax in a variety of investment companies. The same is the favourite tax on those who will transfer the tax base to Greece, provided that they invest more than EUR 500,000 in cash. Even the regulations, which have been advertised by the government as 'friends of life' for fellow engineers, I think they are extremely problematic. For example, I have a feeling, ladies and gentlemen, that the arrangements for the three-year suspension of VAT on immovable property will prove very dangerous for the future of our country's construction sector. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] As you know, today there are three VAT rates: 24% for newly built dwellings, 0% for first residence and, of course, 3% for other real estate transfers. So the regulation only concerns those who are going to buy the second home, but who too will ultimately not see the benefit, because the contractor will simply transfer the cost to the commercial value of the property. The measure will thus give an immediate boost to the building of buildings over the next three years. But once this period has elapsed, the vertical decline in building activity will follow with disastrous consequences for the industry. In this sense, if the Government were to favour the building through the reduction of VAT, it would be more reasonable to reduce the relative tax burden in so far as public finances allow it, rather than make it tymurgical, as it has now done, to a temporary measure aimed at creating a new property bubble. Here, allow me to make a further point. Article 29 of this bill introduces the possibility for the Ministry of Finance to require companies such as the known Airbnb to disclose their transaction data to the tax authorities of the country and if they do not do so, they will face strict fines. This provision is relevant to all the current and previous regulations which are trying to help with the bubble of property created around the dividend economy and the distortion of our country's tourism market, which has been caused by the unequal tax regime between tourist accommodation and short-term leases. This provision is therefore in a positive direction, but I suspect that it is primarily regulation that is being introduced so that it is not implemented and, unfortunately, remains empty. Hic Rhodus, hic salta, Mr. Undersecretary! Bright opportunity to disprove us happyly by pressing the sharing companies. By the way, if you really want to surprise us, you can also implement the provisions of the previous government's law and limit the spread of this phenomenon to areas which are under very heavy pressure in their housing reserves, while the prices of the rents for popular mattresses have become banned. I am referring more specifically to areas of the centre of the city of Athens, but also to areas and cities of Crete. In order not to abuse your time, Madam President, by closing this brief position, I would like to say this: this bill leaves a clear, clear signal. It answers the question: Whose government is this? And the answer he gives, in addition to partial remarks to insulated articles, is that this government is the rich and the international real estate market. SYRIZA does not intend to support their interests and we will therefore vote against your legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u317	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Fotou has the floor now from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u318	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with the amendment to the social dividend. The overrun of 2019 is, as in 2018, 2 billion. For the first time this year, we have come out of the memoranda, we have been able to schedule its payment, creating permanent and institutional reductions, which would be entered next year in the ordinary budget and at the end the scale and amount of the social dividend. That was our policy. We have therefore given the first 1 billion as follows: the 800 million by establishing the 13th pension. As you remember, in 2012 PASOK and New Democracy cut the 13th and 14th pensions. So we don't forget. The remaining 200 million, we gave them to reduce the EMCDDA by 22%. As you remember, New Democracy and PASOK imposed on him in 2013, so that we do not forget. The new Republic now, after that, wasted the remaining 1 billion as follows: as Mr Staikoras said, it gave the additional ECU 250 million, and the 60 to 70 million of the heating oil, i.e. 320 million. Where's the other 680? Tell us where you gave it to us. Instead, you saved 175 million for the dividend as against 780, which we had given last year. I will not remain in the comparison of numbers, because it is, of course, overwhelming. Two hundred and fifty thousand families this year, one million seven hundred thousand households last year. In simple terms, seven out of eight citizens who received a dividend last year will not get it this year. And those who take it, they'll take it after the holidays. And that shows your care. You don't care if they take it before Christmas, because in time you didn't make the program of the digital staff for people to get it in time. But I want to comment on something very important to me, the horizontal allowance of EUR 700. How did that come about? It emerged very simply from a division: 175 million I have, two hundred and fifty thousand said the Prime Minister will take it, so 700 euros each household. Is that caring for anything? Is there any thought of, for example, the peculiarity of the family, 700 euros for the four children, 700 euros for the six? Is there any thought for the disabled, 700 with a disabled child and nothing if the parent is disabled and has three children? What these examples show: Ignorance of reality and arrogance. It is the arrogance of the New Democracy, who treats our weak fellow citizens as if they were all the same, as if they all had the same needs. He behaves with the aristocracy of aristocracy self-conceived, i.e. the excellence they hold, who dominate. How irony when we talk about the New Democracy and the Excellents! Ladies and gentlemen, five months after the takeover of power by New Democracy we have now become accustomed to typology, the methodology of training and propaganda of every law and the typology of the law itself. First of all, it is a horror that you are keeping your election promises. Do exactly the opposite, the black, the white. As genuine populists, you promised what he wanted or thought the people wanted to hear and abandoned them the day after you took over power. This is the epitome of populism, i.e. "refugee", "Prespas", "Greek Turkish", "development 4%", "reduction of primary surpluses below 3.5%", "good and many jobs", "advancing the middle class, destroyed by SYRIZA", "worthiness for the excellence", "less party state". Within five months you have humiliated all the concepts, since you had attempted to divide the social body over the previous years. With this tax bill, you are undoing what you have said in an election on SYRIZA's overtaxation. Where are the twenty-nine unfair taxes that SYRIZA put in and would you take them down? Who have you done away with? You have kept them all on the ground. And as provided for in the 2020 budget, citizens will pay EUR 733 million extra taxes. Each law shows your class share in favour of large capital, large businesses, in favour of high incomes. For these are any tax reliefs in this law. You obviously don't care about the middle layers. Ministers and Members of Parliament urge you on the incomes of the middle classes. Will you finally decide? Is it 1,500 or 563 per month income? Let us say once again and repeat from this Step, we have tabled it a hundred times in the Minutes, that, based on ELSTAT's data from 2009 to 2015, the middle layers lost 40% of their income and eight hundred citizens moved to the poor, that is, one in five middle layers went to poverty, because the New Democracy and the PASOK poored the middle layers. In 2015, according to ELSTAT, when we took over, the incomes for one person of the middle classes were 7,500 to 10,800 a year. The year 2018 was 7.860 to 11,200 a year. Elevation! Little one? Still an increase with SYRIZA. What do you hold on to these layers? We just don't know why you put it at 50,000 euros a year for one person. In this unpredictable income, tax relief will be EUR 20 per month, i.e. EUR 240 per year. But whoever has twice as much income, namely EUR 100,000, will not be double, EUR 500, but four times that. This is, in simple words, class-shapedness. The richer the tax relief. So we say that if this is the case with the taxation of natural persons, employees, pensioners, let's see what happens to businesses. The total tax exemptions are estimated at EUR 1.2 billion, of which EUR 600 million is for enterprises. But how? Not by assisting the small and medium-sized enterprises, which is the main body of our country's economy, which the GSE also denounces, but by EUR 480 million of the EUR 600 million you give them to 6,000 companies totalling 250,000. So step up social inequalities with an unfair social tax bill, the results of which will be seen by the majority. This, along with the social dividend, is the proof of your class division. Earth and water to the rich, to the possessors, to those who, in fact, are your friends and those who brought you to power. No relief in the middle layers, tips and in general a story in which all the people, the large social majority will see it in their pocket very soon and then they will answer. Thank you, Madam President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u319	Me too, my colleague. Mr Lambroulis from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u320	Thank you, Madam President. Behind what is stated in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law on a fair tax policy for citizens and businesses, on the fairer distribution of burdens, on sustainable development and others, the reality is that the whole curtain and the fuss, raised by the government, is to cover its anti-grass policy, continuing from where it received from the previous government of SYRIZA. At the same time, the effort in the known recipe of all the previous governments to simulate the conscience of the people and to cultivate the perception that everyone is involved in tax burdens. It is trying to cover up the deepest anti-grassrooted classic of politics, which is being conducted through the tax system, which is becoming increasingly worse and more aggressive at the expense of the people. Thus the regulations of the bill concern new provocative tax exemptions to business groups which will be charged to the people, which already pay more than 93% of indirect and direct taxes. And this is presented by the government as an version of capitalist development for all, with the supposed counterweight to alleviations - crumbs for some parts of the people. But at the same time, he steals them from the other pocket through the 2020 budget, since next year the popular layers will be called upon to pay an extra 400 million income tax and another 470 million extra from the increase in VAT. Business groups, with forecasts talking about greater profitability, will pay even less, about 4 billion of total taxation. Relief for everyone is a mockery and affliction with the triple benefit of direct facilities, namely the further reduction of tax rates from 28% to 24%, the reduction of dividend tax to 5% of 10%, which the SYRIZA government had of course reduced from 15% to 10% and the reduction of the advance tax to 95%. It also provides for indirect reductions for business groups. For example, measures to regenerate sectors in the economy, to feed green groups, to tax incentives for employers replacing part of the wages of workers with offers in kind, are the main part of the EUR 1,2 billion reductions, which will be paid in full by the people with the equivalent measures provided for in the State budget. This is achieved through the further reduction of expenditure on people's needs, health, education, welfare, etc., the broadening of the tax base, the rationalisation of objective prices for property that will lure HIS character etc. In fact, it is a shame that now, ten years, all governments in succession, New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA, are squeezing the people with the wild tax-payers of billions of people and which will continue to serve the interests and needs for the profitability of businessmen and groups. You come and present the new tax scales of crumbs as a deep breath for the people. The aim is to smuggle off provocative tax exemptions in favour of capital with minimal grassroots for the people through the figure of 1.2 billion euros. After all, SYRIZA did the same. Truly, this is a fair political and fairer distribution for citizens when, according to a recent survey, 44% of the monthly income of workers goes to taxes and bills and at the end of the month most people's households stay clothed with cloth, while one out of ten resorts to borrowing to squeeze holes? Or how much fair is he an employee or a retired person with an income of 12,000 euros, tax-free by 2010, to pay EUR 563 income tax for 2020 after the relief? Indeed, the good economic climate and the confidence of the markets, as you say, which the government and all other urban parties together are compromising, overthrowing, improving the situation and problems facing the people, or do they require the continuation and intensity of the anti-grassroots policy of the memorial commitments? At the time we constantly have gifts to business groups with tax reliefs, exemptions and incentives, ECA data record the huge increase in part-time employment and the declining of wages at the humiliating levels that have been shaped in recent years. At the same time, hundreds of anti-Fraud laws, anti-grassroots laws, the escalation of the attack on social security, the extra-taxes - HICPIA, the trade tax, the solidarity levy, which were made permanent by temporary workers - the establishment of branch and average wages, which will be further intensified in the next period by the government's recent anti-Fraud arrangements for collective labour contracts. At the same time, for example, the fourteen forms of flexibility in tourism or 20% of workers in the public health system working on such terms remain, while redundancies are enraged. We have an intensity of repression and criminalisation of trade union activity. All of this and others are elements of the famous "return to normality" that SYRIZA spoke about before and today, New Democracy. Except that ensuring normality means more gains for the few, while for the labour layers it is translated into a permanent source of misery. This is why, with regard to the operation of misleading and caging the conscience of the workers, the pensioners, the self-employed, the farmers, the youth that is being attempted, and the Government of New Democracy, who took the dogma from the previous SYRIZA, the people must not bite. Not to accept living with less demands. It must promote the fulfilment and fulfilment of all its needs, through an organised, mass-reconstructed labour movement, with class orientation, which will conflict with the interests of capital up to the most comprehensive ruptures and overthrows, so that the people can live on the basis of the possibilities that exist today rather than those which existed a century ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u321	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Andriano has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u322	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the first comprehensive tax draft of this government, the second important tax intervention following the elections and the mid-term reduction in HISPI by 22%, which has already been implemented. And with this bill, we can prove that what we had said in the election is an act. We have committed ourselves to a radically different approach to public finances than it described in 2015-2019. I recall the admission of the officials of the previous government that the tax raid against the middle class was a strategic option. Because we have been listening all day - and yesterday - to the SYRIZA colleagues talking about the middle-class, but without saying that it was a strategic choice for overtaxation on their part and their policy. I would remind you of the results in the national economy, in growth, in incomes, in the household, in the Brain drain policies of the previous government, which has been elected to promise everything, so that it will eventually put new unscrupulous burdens on the backs of Greeks and Greeks, households, farmers, professionals, small and medium-sized enterprises, employees and pensioners. The draft law we are debating today is governed by a diametrically opposite logic. For us, fiscal policy must be fair, simple, mild and practicable in its forecasts, have a development arm, a development target and produce sustainable positive results for the national economy, social cohesion, employment, support for the weak. This is demonstrated above all by the significant reduction in tax burdens exceeding EUR 1.2 billion. Among other things, I would like to emphasise the reduction in the minimum rate for incomes of up to EUR 10,000, from 22% to 9%, which will give the taxpayers the greatest need. I would also like to highlight the forecasts for the support of the Greek family, with the increase in the tax rate of EUR 1 000 for each child, the reduction of VAT from 24% to 13% for infants and child seats, but also for medicines at 6%, as well as the activation of the EUR 2 000 for every child born. As far as the business and business world is concerned, I would like to stress the reduction in the corporate tax rate to 24% from 28%, the reduction in the advance payment of income tax by 5%, which from 100% goes to 95%. It is a small reduction, but it is more a sign of the will to further correct this injustice in the near future when the conditions allow it. I should also like to remind you of the incentives to distribute shares to workers and benefits, such as the media travel card. It is also important, for the rural world, that the provision for low tax rates of 10% for cooperative schemes, but also that insurance contributions should be released from income, so that they can finally cease to be of a quasi-tax nature. A positive development result will have the measures to strengthen the building, a critical sector for our national economy, in which there are many jobs involved, a sector that has been frozen in recent years of the crisis. The reduction, therefore, of HNVY is supplemented by the three-year suspension of VAT and capital gains on the markets, as well as the reduction of income tax by 40% for the costs of upgrading the property, as well as the possibility of offsetting the debts of HNVY by the price of real estate purchases. In addition, it is for debtors the new possibility of adjusting debts in up to forty-eight instalments, and at the first opportunity the 'hard' of the solidarity levy, imposed on fair and unjust persons, must be abolished. Ladies and gentlemen, the policy of overtaxation, overcrowding, strangulation of the country's creative forces has kept the country low over the past five years. It did not allow it to escape quickly from the crisis and to exploit the favourable international climate, in order to further develop the potential of the creative Greek, to strengthen employment and thus to increase the incomes of households. The previous government actively sought to keep hundreds of thousands of citizens locked in the need and hostage of allowances. We are implementing a completely different policy, which, as the first aim, aims to create new well-paid jobs through growth and investment. Because what the Greek asks is dignity. He needs dignity and dignity is his right to work, dignity is a job. So, with this bill, we are taking another step. It takes much more, of course, but we are practically proving our will to strengthen the real income of Greek women and Greeks and strengthen the forces of creativity and advancement, strengthen the possibility for Greek families to plan with optimism and confidence tomorrow, strengthen young people in their decision to stay and advance in their homeland. This bill is the first step. It's heading in. Of course, much remains to be done to restore normality and public finances. But the important thing is that the ship is finally turning on the right path, and the virtuous cycle, which will allow for the continuous improvement of the tax mix in our country, has already begun. It is up to us, and it is our duty to open speed to the future, which belongs to us and our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u323	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Constantopoulos has the floor from the Change Movement for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u324	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by pointing out that the tax reform bill brought by the government follows the election commitments made by the New Democracy to tax reductions. Here too, the question arises as to whether this is sufficient to make the development dimension which it claims to be invoked in this reform. It's a question that needs an answer. And I'm waiting for your answers, Minister. Minister, international experience has shown that the benefits of a generalised reduction in taxes are short-term and concern specific and small groups. However, it is a question of the correct allocation of the tax burden. That too, to hit the major inequalities. However, with this draft law, I would say, unfortunately, that this is not the case. First of all, I would like to refer to the indirect taxation which is the most unfair, because everyone, having or not, has the same tax rate. We see in the budget that in 2014 tax revenues from indirect taxes were 23 billion. The estimate for 2019 is 30 billion. The 2020 budget is worth EUR 31 billion. Here, we all understand that the indirect taxes imposed by the previous government, by SYRIZA, are expanding in the middle and low social strata, in the middle class, which the New Democracy Government promised to bring it up economically and morally. On the contrary, today, Mr Minister, we see that you have tax increases on basic goods and services and increases in income tax in particular to natural persons. So it is obvious, Minister, that the middle and low levels and low incomes are the ones that will draw the car again. It is what will back up once again the excessive surpluses that reach 7 billion. And all of this will be derivatives of the high primary surpluses that you promised to reduce. However, we are in the same spectators work. In other words, we see SYRIZA's policy going on today. Let me remind you of the policy of overtaxation, where, in order to achieve economic objectives, tax-free and at the same time, we had the tax-paid "development reform". The result was the major primary surpluses and the "stage" of the market, of course with the redistribution of poverty. I'm coming back to the bill. For the sake of good - I would say - it is the reduction of VAT and the tax arrangements relating to demographics. It is imperative that decisions should be taken on demographics. And I salute them. Here, I would like to point out, however, that we must tackle demographic not as a problem, but as a challenge. Because Greece is ageing and needs our immediate initiatives. Therefore, immediate measures must be taken to alleviate and protect the family, the multitude and the threeteen. It is also - I would say - positive to introduce the low rate of tax of 10% for agricultural cooperative schemes. Ladies and gentlemen, for the genuine support of farmers, we propose a 30% discount on the farmers' incomes based on the value of the products it delivers to the cooperative. I would also like to make a comment on taxing 22% on the amount, where the taxpayer's costs are at a loss of 30% of his income. Here, the Scientific Service, Minister, points out in its report on the bill that, in accordance with the plan you propose and Article 78(1) of the Constitution, the object of the tax may be income, property, expenses and transactions of the taxpayer. It cannot, however, be the subject of a tax on non-existence. And that, Minister, you have to take serious note of it. I come to the amendment that we tabled. This is a concrete development plan in which the tax system is a key pillar for sustainable development and social cohesion. The main part of this project has already been institutionalised in the three proposals for legislation that we have tabled. The amendment is structured in 8 articles, which concern: firstly, the reduction of VAT rates, so that indirect taxes are elected for the benefit of the many. Secondly, the abolition of the special solidarity levy on natural persons. Thirdly, the abolition of the trade fee. Fourthly, the creation of new jobs in the private sector with an incentive to reduce taxation. We have said that for every 100 euros that concerns recruitment by one firm at the same time, the company with 150 euros is being taxed. Fifthly, the increased tax depreciation rates for investments with high technological significance. Sixthly, the reduction of agricultural incomes, the strengthening of collective associations of farmers and the exclusion of agricultural parcels from the supplementary ENPY. Seventhly, support for young professionals with full tax exemption and contributions for the main pension for three years and then 50% for the next two years. And finally, eighth, establishing a special bank account of professionals and businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, these measures will vote against taxation, create new jobs, support growth. That is why we call on you, Minister, to accept our amendment. Finally, I would like to close with some of my thoughts resulting from the violation of international law and the illegal Libyan-Turkey EEZ agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, Turkey's objective now is to form the regional power of the Eastern Mediterranean and the Middle East. But the way in which it is attempting to do this is inconsistent with our national interests and with our national struggles. At the same time, it runs counter to fundamental principles and values of the European Union. It must also be made clear here to all European partners that the European Union must go ahead with a multilateral system of governance which, as a project, will have the strengthening of international organisations and rules. That is how it responds and is being created withdrew the international law currently being attempted by Turkey. Finally, our European partners must finally understand that Greece's borders are Europe's borders, with all that that implies. We demand that this and we demand nothing more than respect for international law and the law of the sea. For all of us, for Greece, ladies and gentlemen, there is no dialogue with discounts, as well as with concessions. The defence of our borders and our sovereign rights is the alpha and the omega for us. The circumvention of these is a casus belli. Here the message is one: Greece neither retreats nor grants, does not step back. It is our duty to draw up the national strategy that will be our national line on foreign and defence policy and on ensuring peace, stability and our national interests for all of us. National line for Greece and the Greeks without natural populism, patriots and party crowns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u325	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Skondra has the floor now from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u326	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a bill which seeks to relaunch the economy, to improve immediately the economic indicators of the country and to relieve Greek citizens. The main pillar of the draft law is to alleviate the taxation of natural persons and businesses, but also to help the economic activity of the productive part of the Greek economy to normalise the burden of the last few years. I would like to congratulate the Minister of Finance for his hard work, as well as the entire government's financial staff. It is worth pointing out that the Minister has included in the bill all the changes and additions resulting both from public consultation and from the debate in the relevant committee of Parliament. However, at first, it was accepted by a majority, after the New Democracy MPs voted in favour, while the SYRIZA, the Change Movement, the JRC and the MER25 voted against. To reject this bill first reveals a lot about how to think, the attitudes and intentions of counterpopulation. It is certain that the Greeks see, hear, judge and judge. When commonly introduced measures are expected to work with multiplier benefits, creating a new economic environment with opportunities and opportunities for all citizens and businesses, general denial demonstrates the political micropsy, the cheap micropolicy and the untreated immortality that you possess. But it shows, ladies and gentlemen, the size of your hypocrisy. We go ahead, but we don't forget. Do you remember when we reduced VAT to the focus of ten units in 2013 that you described it as "microdor" and Samaras "partner of Soible", with less powers than the mayor of Lower Saxony, as Mr Tsipras said at the time? And what ironic? When you took over, you uploaded it to 24%. The same political humiliation is shown by dividends. We have established it. You then described it as "fly" coming from the "blooded" surplus. You took over and forgot about a "blooded" surplus. You exaggerated the tiles we're stepping on. You gave an election bonus in June 800 million, the money earmarked for the social dividend at the end of the year. You have not left any surplus for drinks, as Mr Tsakalots has said, in order to make it difficult for the new government. Kyriakos Mitsotakis had made it clear and said today that after the dividend was granted by you at the time, there was no possibility of a second distribution. However, because of the improvement of the economy by the New Democracy Government resources were saved to give our economically weaker fellow citizens. You forsake us. I assume you've gotten over hypocrisy and sold crazy. Ladies and gentlemen, following the country's entry into the economic crisis, over ten years ago, this is the first bill that reduces business taxation and relieves natural persons of unpleasant tax obligations. Finally, you have to clarify your position and tell us: Are you against tax relief for citizens and businesses? Are you against incentives to attract foreign investment and capital to make Greece an attractive investment destination? Do you deny a tax reform with a clear development dimension for Greece tomorrow? Do you want company stiffness and exhaustive taxation for citizens? Are you nostalgic about the economic crisis that excite you and just not telling us? Do you see Mr. Mitsotakis destroying the monster of overtaxation that you have excited and stressed? I cannot explain your negligence otherwise. This tax bill is at the heart of the government's commitments. We have full respect for everything that we promised in tax policy. There is that, you know, in serious and responsible governments, that is, to keep what they promise and honor citizens' confidence. That is why the Greek people have voted for us, whose interests you are supposed to serve too. We are reducing taxes, creating sustainable growth, seeking to attract investment, transparency in transactions, limiting tax evasion by extending electronic means, reducing the bureaucracy of the tax administration. Where exactly do you disagree? In the introduction of an import rate of 9% for natural persons, professionals, farmers, employees and pensioners from 22% for having had it? Do you disagree with the low rate of 10% for agricultural cooperative schemes? So we must not go ahead with alleviating our farmers and farmers? Why not motivate the development and modernisation of the primary sector, the production sector, the labour market, which employs some one million of our fellow citizens, the basis for processing and exports, which contributes a great deal to the national economy, which keeps the country alive and which has always been a catalyst in the difficult economic times for the country? Do you disagree with the reduction in corporate taxation from 28% to 24%? It's a little, I agree, but it's a start. Do you disagree with the increase in the tax rate of EUR 1,000 for each protected child? Do you disagree with the exemption from the solidarity levy for all AIFMs at an disability rate of 80% or more? Are you against reducing VAT on infants, motorcycle helmets and children's seats from 24% today to 13%? Listen, gentlemen, you are against these tax concessions and you are showing your true face throughout society and, of course, towards the investors you almost hate them. Don't hide. You are clearly against the measures that we are introducing to relaunch the economy in important sectors of GDP, such as construction. We are suspending VAT on building permits from 1-1-2006 and from now on as far as the concessions are concerned. We are suspending the imposition of a capital gains tax on the transfer of real estate for three years. We introduce incentives for energy, functional and aesthetic upgrading of buildings. I wanted to know, ladies and gentlemen, about the ten occupations in the building. Don't you know that they were hit first and unsolved by the crisis? All the above are across the street. Otherwise, you would even be voting in favour of the principle. Gentlemen of counter-population, our commitment was and remains the Greek economy to regain its competitiveness, to establish dynamically in the European and international economic environment. This is the essence for us, for the country, for all Greeks. That is what we are trying to do, and we will achieve that even without you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u327	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u328	Ladies and gentlemen, after nine years of crisis and stagnation, what Greece and society need is a coherent development plan with strong social cohesion policies. The main priority is to alleviate the social inequalities that have widened during the crisis and increased during the SYRIZA period. But that requires a change of policy and on 7 July the citizens voted for a change of policy. However, the New Democracy as a government retains the hard core of the choices made by SYRIZA and the signatures of Mr Tsipras and follows the obsolete, i.e. high surpluses, overtaxation, irreversible direct taxes - VAT and excise duties - the excess and public property under the administration and management of foreigners. The government is doing the same with immigration, but also with the refusal to agree on a national line, such as Mr Tsipras. Ladies and gentlemen, we insist on the convening of the Political Heads of State, which, of course, should not be called on for fleas, but not for emergencies after any crises and unpleasant events. The major issues that the country has to deal with because of Turkey's provocation, which has exceeded the rhetoric threshold, are in itself a matter of understanding. We call on the risk that there will be a fait accompli and, as our President told the Prime Minister this morning, we need to unite a strong international message: Greece is determined and has red lines. We are awaiting the initiatives and the line of government. Now in terms of the bill, our proposal is a tax system that promotes sustainable development and is governed by social justice, in order, firstly, to reverse the adverse relationship between indirect and direct taxes and to deviate VAT and excise duties that are disproportionately and much more burdened with low and medium-income, secondly, to include incentives for investment and to reduce additional taxes when new jobs are created, thirdly, to strengthen policies to tackle the environmental crisis, fourthly, to promote synchronisation with the digital age for the fourth industrial revolution, fifthly, to reverse the distorting theory and to see that tax declining can only be done once we achieve growth. We believe that the reduction of taxes, the elimination of burdens on entrepreneurship, at the same time as social clauses, is an incentive to growth, is an incentive to create new wealth and the sustainability of the social state. Unfortunately, the tax bill brought by the government and we are discussing does not serve this plan. It is a long way from its bourgeois title, which refers to "Forum reform with a development dimension for Greece of tomorrow". That is why we are voting 'no' in the first place. The individual positive arrangements it contains, which we are voting on, have not been shown to have the potential of the bill as a whole to liberate economic and social forces and trigger growth. It is a commitment to the high surpluses that Mr Tsipras has signed and Mr Mitsotakis maintains. The consequence of this trumped-up is to maintain the hard core of overtaxation. It is characteristic that it maintains 95% of the tax advance, that it aggravates the unfairness for the many relationship between indirect and direct taxes that I have already spoken about. It maintains overtaxation, the barriers imposed in the previous period to produce new incomes. It does not include incentives to create new jobs. Two topics: You are saying that by reducing the import rate to 9% for incomes of up to EUR 10 000 there will be a significant tax reduction, if in practice with the barriers, cutters and the increase in insurance contributions you put, you did not get them from the other pocket. With one hand, you take it with the other, unfortunately. The second issue concerns the control mechanisms. Note that you are extending the control allowance to a large number of officials of the audit mechanisms, and you are doing so, Minister. But why do you cut it from the auditors, the financial inspectors? Aren't you in your mind, Minister, the Memorandum of Inspectors of the Ministry of Finance? He's at your ministry. You must correct. The auditors must not receive an allowance that the auditors must receive! Mercy in that logic! Ladies and gentlemen, even the social dividends, the government has this in a way that shows that it does not understand the need for an effective social policy. Two characteristic examples: For the Government, there appear to be no children with disabilities over twenty-four years. They're not entitled to a dividend. Secondly, children from third countries and other families are not entitled to support from the social dividend. Luxury tax is being abolished for cars - and good - but it is maintained for cars which are supplied for exactly the same reason as tenants and the same law. The Change Movement has tabled a specific amendment which prejudges our critical choices for the gradual transformation of the Greek tax system from tax on a modern pro-development tool based on the country's productive potential and aims at social progress. We call for the government's clear position on our proposals and on one of the articles in the amendment. The amendment provides for the abolition for all of the special contribution of solidarity and trade charge, a reduction in one unit of VAT rates for all three categories, a reduction in tax incentives for companies that create new jobs or turn part-time jobs into full-time and for each EUR 1 000 for work in addition we will have a reduction in taxes for EUR 1,500, a tax exemption for young people for three years combined with insurance, an increased depreciation rate for investments in modern technology and the management of the climate crisis, a reduction in farmers' taxes on agricultural production. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be done. In addition, there is a 35% tax reduction for all products moved through production groups. There is no need to reduce the tax by the producer group - the shapes you say - the farmer - needs to reduce the weight when moving the products through the producer group. Is it so hard to understand, Minister? That is what the country and society today needs, of course, in the context of a wider social agreement for growth, healthy entrepreneurship, working peace and social cohesion. But that did not work for four and a half years with SYRIZA, it proved it didn't want to. And the New Democracy, which was ordered on 7 July, seems to have escaped neither from its past, nor from SYRIZA's trespasser. The Change Movement with its comprehensive proposal on taxation shows the way it can bring better economic and social results. Study her! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u329	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr Moraite has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u330	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with the title of the bill which we are discussing two days: 'Forensic reform with a development dimension for Greece tomorrow'. You will allow me to say, Minister, that we are talking about the epitome of populism, of anticipation and of a great deception of the middle class, of medium-sized entrepreneurship. I would point out that, first of all, it is not a tax reform. It's a clear redistribution in favour of the few, in favour of the powerful, with a clear class mark. It has no developmental dimension, because the development dimension of your policy has been plunged into a development bill that has come, taken specific pictures of interests and is nowhere in this small and medium-sized entrepreneurship of the country. And of course, the Greece of tomorrow that you are visionating, I am sorry to say this, but from your decisions and the legislation of development law and tax bills, and by extension of the budget, which we have discussed in committee and which we will also discuss next week in Parliament, seems to be the Greece of the hypocritical aeronauticians and post-traders, who of course are behind their accounts and their assets. They are the bankers of yours, Greece of tomorrow, not for what they did, with the change you have made, but mainly for what they will do in the field of the Greek economy and how a large part of the economy will change hands in the next period. It is the Greece of excellence - "mymos", the Father, Diadiaris, Kontoleon, which comes and levels the entire record, in which you had invested in the election, and in these two days that is exactly what you are calling. You call all the record that SYRIZA was the one who destroyed Greece, overcompensated the middle class, that it was a SYRIZA uninvested. What we all have to put right in our minds is this: I think that most of the citizens, seeing how your policy is unfolding, now has it clear in his mind that SYRIZA has handed you a 37 billion-dollar pillow, got the country out of the memorandum, GDP to 2%, unemployment fell ten points, foreign direct investment in 2017 and in 2018 made record records in the country and that of course a median system and a political front of the anti-Syriatic system has been trying and trying even now, while you are ruling, to put all the burden on the SYRIZA government. You're going to tell me: Your tax reform is your first cubicity? No, of course not. It's before the big ass in the refugee. You discovered the new geopolitical reality after the elections, the Eye for which the Prime Minister remembered to tell us that it was due to climate change and, of course, the Prespes, a "progressive" agreement that SYRIZA brought, when you played with patriots and Macedonians, when you split the Greek people, in words like " remember, ladies and gentlemen, in a few months' time, Zaev would be asked not to return to the term “Macedonia”. I now come with specific examples in the tax bill, to explain all the titles I have put in. Who, then, say that you give nothing and do not look at middle-sized entrepreneurship and middle-class? The unions that came to our committee, the federations, your media. The title is: ‘Some to No Benefits’. In total, Greek taxpayers will pay your tax reform with 323 million more taxes, a charge you consciously choose to charge them. Tax relief for the majority of employees and pensioners - many colleagues have said so - will not exceed EUR 20 per month and will be zero and I could bring many examples. I will, however, remain in the increase of VAT revenue and excise duty on goods and services by 563 million, in relation to the 2019 estimate. In fact, you are strengthening indirect taxation on products that have an inefficiency and without taking account of income criteria into account. I come to the ragged article 7 - which many colleagues have referred to - and to e-commerce. What do we see here? And with VAT and the Special Consumer Tax, but exactly what you're doing with transactions, you're mocking the world. On the one hand, you tell them that you are lightening them by EUR 20, by EUR 30, by EUR 50, and coming with these two specific policies, both with electronic transactions and the increase in the above revenues, and taking them from the other pocket, precisely. The Scientific Service of the Parliament described it as unconstitutional. I'm sure you don't even consider it. It's none of your business. Another charge now. Who doesn't remember the big words and the great commitments of the Prime Minister, but also many of your officials, when you turned the countryside to Greece? And the big talk was for the farmers. I'm not going to the farm oil. I won't go to other big promises. I'm staying at what you've been saying. You were overcompensated by the previous government. SYRIZA overcompensated you. The reduction in the tax advance will only be 5%, while that of the tax rate 9% to 10,000, what is it about? Minister, you know that very well. It is about 10% of farmers. Was there any reason for you to put these fishermen in a difficult time, which you are imposing on them? Of course not. I have very little time, and I would like to close with this, which I consider to be very important. It is now clear that SYRIZA may have taxed, but it has succeeded and closed a difficult cycle in the country. He left the memorials behind and now we had the financial space to choose another policy. You of the twenty-nine taxes that SYRIZA overtaxed the economy, kept them twenty-eight. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Wait a minute. But our basic difference is one and only one. It seems who he defends and who he is with. We defend medium-sized entrepreneurship, the small and medium-sized, which today give our economy six out of ten jobs. We are with the businesses that have been held up in the crisis, have succeeded and increased their exports, small manufacturing units, craft industries, traders who have given a difficult struggle. We are not, however, with the transmissibles or with the parasitic capital, which, by amendments - from the first, I would like to remind you, it was for BSE - you started extinguishing all labour possessions and followed by the development law. That's our main difference. We're with the healthy productive forces of this place. We believe this is the small giant of the Greek economy. And, precisely, if we want to serve sustainable development, we need to engage with policies on supporting this category. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u331	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Snowides has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u332	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the privilege of speaking last today, without that meaning, Madam President, that I am going to make more use of time. It is true that the New Democracy had the norm of'more security, more jobs, less taxes'. With this bill we come to complete a large part of the puzzle systematically, targeted and timed, to complete all these actions relating to the relief of the Greeks and, at the same time, to give that development background, which will bring growth and jobs. Of course, I would like to stress this. The parliamentary life of each government is a thousand five hundred days. Today we close the first hundred fifty days of governance, that is, from the hundred steps we have before us, we are currently spending the first ten. I do not say this at random, because we must judge this whole set of actions and laws that have illustrated the policy of the New Democracy, which has been binding from the outset since its announcements. It's happening, and time is very important. So when we speak and have a position different, it's reasonable, but you can't talk to a government, a new government of fifty days as if it's finished the circle of a thousand and a half days. As to the part of the concrete steps: Is this bill a fragmentary one? I do not want to say at all, because at least a hundred and ten times have been said in this Chamber every article, whether supported by the New Democracy side or by an article on the other hand, and analyses have been carried out. Therefore, for us it is a great step forward in development and, above all, it concerns all citizens, it concerns the middle and lower strata, so that it can help social cohesion that is the major and the big issue. What I would also like to say is that politics or politicians are a concept of misunderstood, a concept for which the average citizen has a lack of confidence. So the major point in closing this draft law before the end of the year with what is coming is that what is being built by this government is consistency and credibility, because building the image of the policies and policies that have been shattered, without wanting to go in the past, but looking at the future, is very difficult and Mr Mitsotakis and the New Democracy Government builds this credibility, day after day with all the difficulties, with all the unfavourable conditions, international and national. The third point I would like to make is that in the next few days outside this credibility built, which is the great political message that concerns all the Members, all the politicians in the country, it is the faith of the world. I'm talking to ordinary people in my area, in Pieria, and I see they're going well. What's the program gonna do? And half of it will be very important. But there's more going on here than we promised. Let us therefore take the letter of the programme and the commitments made by Mr Mitsotakis and the New Democracy to see that more is being done. We're talking about the social dividend. He had never promised that he would give social dividends and never promised that the capital control and a number of other actions would end. Therefore, we are building all the profile of this government that is what it committed itself to. We now have to do with building citizens' faith again to politicians. Also, because a hundred and fifty days have passed, I feel the comfort to say, but all our fellow Members who support this government will not say that we were not ready to rule for the first hundred fifty days, as was said. And we were ready and consistent and today we are trustworthy looking into the Greek people's eyes. Of course, there is a lot to be done. That's a fact. There's a lot more to be done. Yes, farmers need to be further reduced. But in the first hundred and fifty days? He's on his way, we're on our way. Let us be judged in every six months what we will do and not be ashamed that we were not ready to run. The minor problems that arise during the life of a government by various people who are involved are not the main. The dominant thing is that great credibility is being built. Of course we are prepared to say this: is the question that we could ask Parliament today 'do you or do you not vote on this draft law?' But that's what the minority, the opposition and the election were saying. She's against this plan, testified her own plan. But if we took the vote 'is it credible what the government systematically brings from July to today, at an intense and specific pace'? I am sure it would be three hundred 'yes'. Yes, the government is reliable, yes, this programme has been passed by the Greek people, yes, we are building credibility together by seeing tomorrow. Because it makes no sense and it is important to engage in controversy and to turn back. It must now be understood that Greece is going forward. There's no left or right. There's common sense. We either look forward or look back. That is why I am not talking about anything from the past. Let's all look together and go forward. That is what we supported, that is what the Greek people support, and that is what we must all try, with dynamism outside and beyond controversy and a close deal with the issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u333	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The reason for this is, and we are closing down with colleagues, Mr Mikopoulou from SYRIZA. Immediately after the rapporteurs two minutes, strictly, to go to the Minister and close the procedure. Mr. Micopulus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u334	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, many years to the holidays and the holidays. I want to start by saying that today is really a painful day. As it was murdered today, a young man of 16 years was shot hurt once and for all, in my opinion, the Greek youth, but also all of us as a society. I really wish as a political system, as a society, that we have learned from that time and in the future not to live such days again. In order for this to happen, however, the coordinate state should operate on the basis of the principles of democracy, social justice, equal treatment and proportionality. And in order to hurry to prevent some wicked and misappropriated people who are already rushing today to associate my own political space with phenomenal phenomena, we, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, do not compare to the doctrine of "law and order" the balls and the unvailable ones, but we compare the inalienable bond between security and social peace. Because, ladies and gentlemen, molotovs, stones and stakes do not contribute to social peace. But neither the chemical nor the sparks of shine nor the authoritarianism in which many times - and in the recent past - we have seen the organs of the state suffer. I would also like to call for the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance. Minister, I would like to ask you, or rather I would like to call on you to withdraw first of all the provision concerning the fees for coastal vessels, for coastal fishing. Minister, I don't know if you have a picture of the profile of coastal fishermen. I come from a seaside town, Volos, where these people, at the moment, are making it very difficult over and only their lives are guaranteed by doing this activity. I should therefore inform you, as also the Volos Fishing Club with Christos Xiradakis, its President, but also the Greek Coastal Shipowners' Association, that by ordering you to destroy about ten thousand families throughout Greece, but also many people in Volos. Withdrawal from it, Minister, because otherwise you and the Members of Parliament, colleagues of the Co-Population from Magnesia, will have to explain to this world why they are leading him to extinction. But let us leave the rhetoric of normality, and let us return to seriousness. You have formed a record and supported your election campaign by choosing very carefully burning issues, even making your readiness to manage and provide immediate solutions, from development to refugee, from foreign policy to the economy. Five months in power now, I am watching that so far the embarrassment has prevailed over preparedness. I watch that you are unparalleled in the aftermath of developments, and certainly, not at all, ready. In the meantime, I should like to inform you and inform you that the argument that you are a new government, but also that you should govern the previous government's term of office, I think this is slowly ending. Ladies and gentlemen, I think today's bill is a natural continuation of the first samples of writing this government, clearly showing its aim. What were those first steps? It was the final state and the development bill. First, with the ultimate state that now operates as a "electoral" state, we put into that great organization, which you have baptized the presidency of the government, as long as it is a friend, chosen and related. Those who don't fit, we parked them, of course, in public health. On the big main issue, that of growth, you again acted as the sole owner of the truth about how this long-awaited development will come in this place, but creating a draft 'Blue Horse' bill for labour and little growth for the few and the chosen ones. The conclusion and the result what is it? That most people, at least for the time, have not felt the effects of these policies in their daily lives. However, I think that the time has come for the truth, because the tax, the insurance that is to come in January, the budget, all of this acts as a mirror of your choices, because I think you are now facing your own choices, which have arisen - in my opinion - from excessive, political egoism. What were these options? Firstly, you are not renegotiating - you have had it as a flag - the level of primary surpluses of 3.5%, which you said you could get at 2.5% or 2%. You refer this negotiation to 2021. I think the worst of all is - where did ego work? - the fact that you cancel the SYRIZA government guarantee account. What was the result of these choices? They did not allow for the creation of additional financial space for drastic medium-sized reductions and, once again, you revealed the ideological obsession. Who's that? Spread some money that we can ensure, once again, that very few people and people are chosen. So the tax bill you brought to Parliament today has by a majority provisions on large incomes, which correspond to less than 1% of taxpayers and large profitable businesses, while the large loser is low and medium-sized. I would like at this point to be a little more in the middle class, because I was really surprised to see Mr Stakoura do a re-identification of what you mean as the New Democracy'medium-class'. Election, of course, you had artificially omitted to define what you mean in the middle class before you took it under your custody. We are therefore learning today that the middle class is people with an income of about EUR 525 or more. Yes, sir. The middle class again remained "orphan" because the position of the commitments to combat the overtaxation of the middle class is taken by the low reductions for pensioners and employees. The picture does indeed seem slightly better for the free professionals, only temporarily, because there are also increases in insurance contributions, there are increases in PPC's invoices, increases in HNVY since April, tripling the necessary electronic transactions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I come to the horizontal imposition of 30% on electronic transactions. Why is it a trap? The fact that the rent, the repayment of a housing loan and the payment of taxes constitute, in effect, the basic costs of the Greek household is excluded. Don't tell me that you don't know what percentage of the income there is with an average Greek household for consumption. And give you a simple example. A parent who pays the rent of his child who is a student in another city and the rent of his family will not be able to count on the rents and if he does not catch the 30% target, he will of course pay a 22% penalty. On the contrary, fewer electronic transactions are needed for very large incomes than EUR 110,000. There was therefore a rejection of the warranty account that SYRIZA had agreed. I appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, who have been calling for election to hear the market. So how do you hear the market when you cancel the tax advance that we would vote for 2020 from 100% to 50%? How do you hear the market when you do not abolish the solidarity levy of up to EUR 20,000 and reduce it drastically for higher incomes? How do you hear the market when you do not give the HOPS 50% further reduction, as would happen from 1-1-2020? How do you hear the market when you cancel VAT for small and medium-sized enterprises from 13% to 11%? I am thinking of a title and am thinking after reading all the articles and provisions of today's bill. 'Silver Alert! The middle class is ignored, the middle class is sought." Unless you tell me that out of the EUR 550 million which the government costs to reduce business tax, 450 million will be channelled to 6 000 enterprises, 80% of which will be made redundant.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u335	Mr Colleague, I would ask you to complete this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u336	In this picture, do you see the small storemaster of a minimarket on a commercial street of the Greek region, a small craftsman, a small magatora who is currently choking the legs? I don't think that image is about these people.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u337	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u338	I'm sorry, Madam President, I'm closing. I think the tax bill has no surprises, you're loyal to your preferences and your class obsessions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u339	Mr. Comrade, wait a minute. I think that I am wrong when I am in the Chair and some people end on time, some people take the minute, which we always have the opportunity to give them, and others are manipulating the time, and that is not right. So forgive me too, but we should not be consistent in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u340	It happened many times though.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u341	I know. We're trying to keep an equivalency in here. We do not want to blame any fellow Members, so it is not right for anyone to speak seven, eight or ten minutes. We are now going to give the floor to the special speakers and the rapporteurs. Anyone who wants to take the floor. Starting at Merra25, I ask Mr Arseni if he wants to talk. He has the ability to speak for three minutes. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u342	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, this bill really shows your attempt to show the lenders that it's all right. Don't worry, we're not going to pressure you, we're not going to negotiate any change that hurts you. You give your obedience credentials to the oligarchy, giving all these gifts, the same time you share psycho to the masses, because that's the reality. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] We have called on you to vote on the amendment to one of the thousands of memorandum measures that you are regularising with this bill to reduce VAT on the islands. And unfortunately neither at this juncture with Turkey nor at all the pressures that Mr Erdogan has received from these regions of Greece nor will you now do so. However, I would like to dwell on another matter. I would like to invite you, at least at the very last moment, to withdraw your predictions of the article concerning the SME. At the moment, what you are proposing for AME is only our fellow citizens who are disabled and who have 80% disability, only those who take this part of the dividend, only those who...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u343	It is not a provision that we are discussing or an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u344	It's part of the bill you brought in, and it's your proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u345	In the case of small and mediumsized enterprises, dividends are not in the amendment either. It's after, ministerial decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u346	On the microphone, Minister, please, please record.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u347	What we're going through is...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u348	What you're entering is that the LEIs will only get this subsidy if there is 80% disability, only if they're under the age of 24, because the subsidy goes to their families. This is a reduction in protection and I urge you, even now, to say that it will not apply and withdraw it from every level of discussion. This is very important. All the people's organizations with disabilities are now asking for it throughout Greece. I think it's an analgesia not to do it, and I invite you to do it, to withdraw it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u349	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u350	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u351	First of all, you will allow me to say that you have come up with a little heavy expression and analgesia. You are talking about government analgesia, but if you see the main body and amendments of the bill, you will see that it contributes to the everyday life of our fellow humans with special abilities. But what you are asking me to do is to withdraw the 175 million emergency aid. There are no divisions here. Allocations are following. So you're asking for this provision to be withdrawn? It'll be interesting to hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u352	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u353	What would you like, Mr. Arseny?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u354	Because the Minister said that I am asking for something which does not apply, no, I am not asking for a provision that increases. What I am asking, however, is for any debate to be stopped on limiting the allowance to the LEADER. That's what all SME organisations are asking for right now in Greece. I guess we misinterpreted all your provisions. The problem is that in every bill you bring provisions that are very problematic, always along with provisions that may be positive at some points.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u355	Mr. Vassiliardos from the Greek Solution has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u356	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to refer to the remark made by the New Democracy MEP regarding German corruption, according to which the President of the Greek Solution yesterday was exaggerated.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u357	Are you telling me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u358	Oh, no. Unfortunately, it is wrong, since the Germans themselves accept it, as in the case of the money laundering of 100 billion euros a year according to their own taxpayers, noting that it is the Italian mafia's favourite destination for money laundering. Germany's tax collectors complain about the limited number of civil servants working on money laundering and so on, while accusing their government of doing so deliberately, wanting to take advantage of the proceeds from illegal money in the country. Besides, it is known that Deutsche Bank is being accused by the German police as a criminal gang. Germany has been classified relatively recently in the fourth world position as regards rinsing. The German automotive industry was arrested for the well-known polluting of pollutants. Many other industries in the country are included in the largest corruption worldwide, such as ‘SIEMENS’ and so many others. In relation to the SYRIZA MP who protested on the issue of Islam, we obviously respect the Constitution that supports adequacy in Greece. But we mentioned only the extreme Islam and its inhuman methods. Of course not in Muslim religion. We have also stressed, and we have constantly stressed that a very large number of immigrants have proved to be not assimilated to countries that are migrating, legally or illegally, but to assimilate them, while not respecting their laws, customs and customs. Sad example here, Sweden, which welcomed over a hundred and fifty thousand foreigners in 2015, resulting today in the outbreak of crime, the creation of over fifty banned zones in the ghettos created by immigrants, the gangs that conflict with each other and many others. In particular, with regard to bankrupt Greece, which is certainly unable to host immigrants, let alone illegal, it is faced, on the one hand, with the appropriate settlement of Turkey, on the other hand, with its economic delinquency, because it unblocks all its businesses to foreigners, who will reasonably want to work on them with unfortunate cheap immigrants, with disastrous results for the domestic population, which is further plagued by demographic problems, from the departure of our young people abroad and so on. In what the Minister of Finance has just said, we regard the justification for the financial area as a joke - if I am not mistaken - EUR 1.4 billion, created by his Government within only four months by adopting the hundred and twenty-five instalments and a few others. Simplifiedly, the Germans are more relaxed with the New Democracy because they have been promised to sell everything by faithfully following their orders. So they allow her some concessions, among other things, so that the Greeks do not revolutionise by experiencing ten years of deep crisis, losing their homes and other assets, without any prospect of their future. The worst of all, however, was his reference to the EUR 700 million dose from the profits of the European Central Bank with our own bonds, confirming that Greece continues to be under the Memorandum regime, blackmailing in instalments of its own money. Unfortunately, he did not say that the profits of the European central banks from our bonds exceed EUR 14 billion, while they promised to return only the profits after 2017, withholding the EUR 10 billion of the first period. Therefore, triumphing about them is not so right. In conclusion, when a parliamentary representative realizes that his party is affected, he may intervene for two minutes. However, yesterday the Greek Parliamentary Representative was not allowed to speak on a very important matter. So we consider it to be a bias against the Greek Solution, and it is not the first time. Remember the closure of the microphone by Mr. Athanasios who apologized, but it happened. We hope it doesn't happen again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u359	I will now give Mr. Nikos Karathanasopoulos the floor from the Communist Party of Greece and wish him much for his celebration for years. Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u360	Thank you very much, Mr President. Of course, every man has his stone. I won't say much, just a word about the bill. Once it taxs coastal fishermen and leaves the shipowners tax free, we understand what the government's tax policy is. But I will go to something else to the Bureau. Mr President, we have said on several occasions to the Conference of Presidents that there cannot be any amendments with either a positive or a negative impact - or because we see them positive and some negative - and that the amendment should be voted on in a single way. That is why the Bureau has to take care at some point, because we are making an effort to express the vote on an amendment which other articles want to vote on and we do not want to vote on. That's a problem. You understand that very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u361	Thank you, too, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr Arvanitides has the floor from the Movement of Change.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u362	Thank you very much, Mr President. It concludes today, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the tax bill, a bill calling on the Greek citizens once again to raise on their backs the 7 billion to the surplus. That's the essence of the bill. Once again, whether anyone wishes or not, that was the effort you have made, that is what you are asking the Greek people, and that is the framework within which the debate is taking place. Why does the government disappear when we always said that the previous government was taking five and gave one? So we're in the same spectators work. In the speech and the President of our Parliamentary Group, Mr Gennimata and our Parliamentary Representative Mr Loverdou, we have tried by our amendment and our arguments to develop what Greece needs to go on, how we achieve growth. He said, "But it is only a hundred and fifty, two days". But the tax bill determines what will happen in the next three hundred and sixty-five days. This is the instrument with which one is called to achieve the objectives of the budget it sets out. Minister, I come to one, two more remarks. For example, the country aims to save 32.5% of energy from improving buildings. In order to achieve this, according to what the Prime Minister sets us as targets, such as our environmental dimension, in the next seven years, we need to pursue private and public investment in buildings, public and private, 500 million. Does the arrangement that you bring it serves? Is he in this direction? Is it a regulation that will cause this objective by means of the tax bill? I'm telling you no and we'll see in the next few years how this goal is going to turn out. And that's what we're telling you: measurable targets, road maps, inside to achieve it. Unfortunately, this tax bill came to serve your account: 'I'm cutting taxes'. And what does it say to Greek citizens? "Save the HISFIA?". That is what all of your speakers have developed. But the revenues will be bigger. The particular person who's been reduced by HISBIA if he's going to pay? The budget says you're asking for more revenue from the tax. This will be paid by extending the tax base. What does that mean? It's from the market, isn't it? From Greek citizens, won't this be the extra if it's gonna be parcels? Who will it be? That is the concept of politics, as we describe it. But that's money, that's money, that's what you expect and you say. In addition, with the abolition of the benefit to environmental auditors, which is a critical area, I do not understand why, precisely when our aim in the coming years is to defend the environment. In conclusion, I would also like to raise the issue raised by the special speaker of the Communist Party about the way you legislate. In fact, there is a provision that on the one hand reduces the drugs and gives some bonuses for the cars tax of AMEs, and on the other hand, the tax reductions of footballers come from side to side. It does not give us a choice to vote on one or the other. So when Mr Gerapetritis and your government here talked about a state of end, about another perception, I don't think that's what he meant. It is neither reformist nor modernistic. I think it does not serve your account of a reformist and modernist government that you want to develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u363	The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Tyrevos Alexiadis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u364	Thank you, Mr President. The day of remembrance in Alexis Gregopoulou cannot be left unanswered to the House what extremistly and racistly they heard yesterday. And they cannot stay unanswered especially by some who want to talk about these matters as Christians. So I recall Matthew 25,35 “Because I was hungry and you gave me food, I was thirsty and you watered me, I was a stranger who had no place to stay and you took me home. I was a stranger and assemble me." These are for those who want to speak here on behalf of Christianity on these issues in extreme terms. They can't even speak on behalf of the Greek culture those who don't understand what "Xenical Zeus" means or what view we Greeks have always had on the matter of hospitality. They cannot play with these issues and Islamophobia, when we have many Christian churches in countries with a majority of Islamic populations and do not understand what they do in Greece and what impact they have there. But let us come to the triumphs of the bill. Mr. Gerapitris should be here today. Mr Gerapitris should be here, not because you do not have economic, scientific and political adequacy, but we listened to the programme statements - and I was impressed - for a 'final state', for rules of sound legislation, for real dialogue. We thought there was a legal document. We heard too much and I was really impressed, and I said at least in this area something better will be done. And then the bill came, for which we thank you very much. It's a very good political gift to SYRIZA. It is a very good gift, which I predict opens up political developments, because it closes a page, the nice fairy tales you have said - which have no dragon and no longer convinces anyone - and what you really do. The Prime Minister said something and please make it clear to us. Is the euro 1,000 for every child or not? Will the first child be a 1,000 euros, or will they be less? Or the Prime Minister is lying or someone else is lying. For I would remind you that the bill on the rules of legislature was with thirty-nine articles in the consultation, with sixty-seven tabled in the House, eighteen articles were added with three amendments and two articles with amendments by Members of the New Democracy, eighty-seven. I was expecting Mr Gerapetti to answer at least what Parliament's Scientific Service says about legal matters, but there was no answer. I've been waiting for you, Mr. Ministers. You don't want to answer the rest, you don't want to bring paintings, you don't want to reveal some things, I understand the political embarrassment, I understand your political problem too. However, will you give an answer to this technique that GSEW says - the eminent representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises - that is to say,'should it be taken care of individual enterprises and free professionals who have frozen accounts and cannot engage in electronic transactions'? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall be very brief, Mr President. I won't take your time. As far as I am concerned, Mr Stakoura, what you said about the middle-class, we are confused. We understand the problem in the building on the right, but Mrs Bakoyannis, but you, other members. Question, though: Are you criticising SYRIZA for overtaxing the middle class and yet you have not set it? Say, anyway, what is this middle class, to go out and say after that the middle class, which we overtaxed, as you said, has been reduced by you. Because we have established exactly what you were saying here, but they have nothing to do with reality. But then we understood what the middle-class is, we understood from this amendment which you did not have to consult, which you did not bring to the Committee on Economic Affairs. You have to tell us who started it. I would remind you that strange amendments from the Ministry of Finance, which started and came here, became the subject of public prosecutors and other proceedings afterwards. Don't get your name involved with that. Tell us clearly who proposed this amendment - do it here so that we do not lose time with questions - in which you lighten the middle class of the owners of PAIs and OEMs, namely those who have money, thereby reducing those who have no need to reduce them, namely those who have a great deal of pay for sports contracts? Your amendment will pay 22% instead of 45%. And a request, do it, because you had a good argument. When we told you about the 800,000 euro income that will be deducted from 9,100 euros annually, your argument was - a shocking political argument -: 'But what, Mr Alexiadis, are you saying? These are very few. They are four hundred'. Withdraw the amendment for the AIFs and the OEMs, to give four hundred additional beneficiaries a little more dividend. It's gonna be a few, but it's gonna be something. Just one last word on the ILO theme. You have reduced the ILO - we understand the political reasons - from the outset. You've actually done away with it. From summer, you said: 'There will be no political person for the head, we will set up a Director-General'. Please tell us when a Director-General will finally be placed at the ILO, because you have not yet done so. I say this because in Amendment No 107/21, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has been forgotten or not, or for some other reason, the Director-General who will have to be placed at some point in the ILO. With regard to the vote on the articles, Mr President - because we would need a lot of time, but we have to say something about this - we cannot say what we are voting on and why for each article, because we would be eating too much time. We talked about it in our location. We vote in total in twenty-six articles 'for', in twenty articles 'the present' and in twenty articles 'in percentage'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u365	They'll look at these, Mr. Alexiadis. You don't have to explain them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u366	I say this, Mr President, because if we had received the answers we asked for in the committee and plenary procedure by the ministers, we would have voted in favour of many more articles. Thanks for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u367	Good, thank you. The rapporteur of the New Democracy Mr George Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u368	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are reaching the end of an exhaustive two-day debate. A hundred Members have spoken. I'd tell you, the recital is double and positive. We have two positive findings. The first is that whoever is taxed in Greece, thanks to this tax bill, will pay less tax, whether they are households, whether they are retired, whether they are businesses, whether they are a farmer or an employed person. Less tax for the first time in ten years! This is the one good news. The second good news of the tax bill is that at last SYRIZA discovered the middle class. I leave aside, of course, the nakedness of their arguments: "Slow down the advance payment of business tax to 50%", SYRIZA told us until a moment ago, when SYRIZA himself got the tax advance from 50% and took it to 100%. Now that we reduce it and deviate it, even by 5%, it says: 'No, I want you to leave the tax advance where we found it - that is, the Syrians - and then we launched it in the stratosphere'. Should I say about the wine? I'm really laughing about the wine. They say they've reduced - the siege - taxes and that they've taken out the wine tax. Well, that's populism. It is the Council of State that took out the charm that SYRIZA imposed on wine by decision 1734/2018. But that's not even what they want to face as truth? But it is also good and important that SYRIZA MPs began reading "KATHMERINA". Big leap, and spiritual and psychological. They left "AGE" and went to "KATHMERINI" to criticize us for the middle class. Well, I'll tell you what the middle class is. Or rather Mr. Tsakalotos will tell you, because Mr. Tsakalotos made information in June that passed us, official information of the Ministry of Finance, on the charge of income for the four years 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018. So what did the Ministry of Finance tell us about Mr. Tsakalotou? That those who declared income from 10,000 to 20,000 euros have reduced by a hundred thousand people. A hundred thousand less people could have this income. He also gave us one more clue. Those who declared between EUR 1 and EUR 10,000 increased by two hundred and fifty thousand. Can I just say it? The poor became more and poorer on SYRIZA. The issue is elsewhere. The issue is the social dividend that our Government gives to alleviate multiple families, families with children with disabilities...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u369	Until an age.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u370	We'll see her at age. He knows the Ministry. Also, the dividend that our government gives to alleviate the long-term unemployed. Will you vote for this provision?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u371	We won't do what you did in 2016. Of course we'll vote for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u372	Let's go down. I didn't want to deal with the Greek solution. But, Mr President, you said to me: 'I heard the other person who says about Germany, about the Central Bank...'. But is that how you do politics? Do you know the International Transparency, or do you not know it? I challenge you now to enter the Transparency International site.org and see the data. Mr Colleague, for you who want to mock the ears of a nationalist audience with phrases, such as 'the poor Greece is the best, it is the innocent and some bad Germans constantly beat it and put it on the floor', according to the indicators of corruption worldwide, unfortunately Greece - with figures for 2018 - is Europe's second most corrupt country. The first is Bulgaria, the second is Greece. Germany is in the tenth of less corrupt countries between an hundred and eighty countries. Why am I saying this? To defend Germany? Of course not. But to say that if we want to improve our position, if we want to take Greece higher, we have to stop using conspiracys and say UFOs are to blame, the elfs are to blame, and we are the innocent of blood. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's tax bill is a real reform. It opens the way to combating tax evasion by diffusing electronic transactions everywhere. As I told you again, it is the first bill, the first time after ten years, which lightens tax burdens on the back of the citizens, whoever actss, whoever produces, whoever exports, whoever creates in this country. So I call on the opposition parties not to hide behind a fig sheet that does not fit them and to vote in favour of this draft law so that the tax law which will start to apply tomorrow will have the seal of all Greeks. But, as I said at the beginning of my speech, in the first committee 'I want you to be shoved, walking in the coals'. Unfortunately, I have no hope that, in particular, the Civic Opposition, SYRIZA, will be reckoned with its responsibilities and stand to the extent of the circumstances. But the Mitsotakis Government does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u373	Thank you, too. Mr. Loverdo, do you want the floor? I'm asking if I didn't see you and blame you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u374	No, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u375	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u376	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm starting backwards. You said something about the amendments, Mr SYRIZA's rapporteur. If we wanted to hide something, we would bring an amendment today, not yesterday. I made a commitment yesterday that no further amendment will come today. And he didn't come. So since yesterday you have had a full picture of the amendments. It's a basic difference from you when you hid. Secondly, I don't know some of the tactics you're hiding from and at the same time setting for everyone. You talked about sport. The regulation you refer to is horizontal, for all OSCEs. Others have brought amendments to businessmanship. So attention to what you're saying. I would again like to comment on the same amendment in Article 7. What's going on in Article 7? We extend to all socially beneficial institutions, to all educational organisations, to all cultural institutions, to all religious purposes in Greece a framework of rules. You had one for an agency. So to make it clear, it is a horizontal policy and it concerns all the factors involved in each regulation. Others were carrying photographic arrangements at the last minute and not the last day. Let's get this straight. One more comment: you said that we have a political problem. For the first time I have heard a government and a majority of Parliament have had political problems and have reduced taxes. I can't understand it. We reduce taxes, all citizens will see reduced taxes, and you say we have a political problem. You say: 'Yes, you have a political problem, because you will not be credible'. What are we not trustworthy of? We were talking or did we say in the election that from 22% we're going to 9% to 10,000? We said or didn't say that for business we're going to take it from 28% to 24%? What we said before the elections, we have done. We were saying or didn't we say we were going to reduce HISBIA and reduce him? And more forward and more?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u377	Were you talking about fishermen?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u378	For fishermen? Very interesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u379	I didn't find it in the New Democracy program.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u380	Perhaps you have simply not seen Mr. Tsakalotou's letter 2017. Be careful what you say. I didn't answer. On 21 December 2017 you commit to the European Competition Committee to tax more than the government did. We're saving 0.7%. You'd have 3.5% tax!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u381	As long as you want to commit?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u382	Here are the minutes of the DIGICOM. So be careful, because I have evidence of everything. I haven't used it all. You're challenging me. Do you want to bring the regulation of Mr. Tsakalotou? I have no objections. That's more than a tax.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u383	Do not tax fishermen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u384	Mr. Tsakalotos on 21 December 2017 wants more taxation for fishermen. Do you support it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u385	I answered you. You can't choose what you're going to vote on... (not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u386	Be careful! I come to another point: you said about the middle class. We're reducing taxes. I gave full evidence yesterday about the middle class. If you were to watch, you would see what I said - and this is what we have agreed, and I am glad that Mr Loverdos has also made a very serious position, and Mr Tsakalotos has placed himself on the subject - that it is not easy to identify the middle class. The middle class also has economic characteristics, it also has income, it also has property, it has everyday life, it seeks security. We have tried to identify it in economic terms and I have tabled all the available information from the EU, ELSTAT, the OECD. I filed all the evidence, but there's a big difference. You're saying that the middle class isn't much help, but we're helping her a little bit. We say that 18% tax on income from 10,000 to 20,000 has increased on your own days. We said you taxed between 200 and 300 euros on incomes from 20,000 to 70,000. We said that in the period 2014-2017, for net income up to 20,000, you reduced this income by 235 euros and for the largest incomes by 530 euros. We also said, according to the European Commission's figures, that tax evasion has increased in recent years in Greece EUR 3 billion, due to your tax policy. So we have said quite simply this: in this tax bill, we have not solved all the issues of the country. With this tax bill, we are entirely consistent with what we had supported in the election, we are implementing it documented, methodically, in consultation with the institutions, in a enhanced supervision regime that you have put us, and that has a positive effect on the whole of Greek society, more on the lower and middle income layers. And two final comments: THE ENVIRONMENT will be fiscally neutral in 2020 as a result. Any increase in HISPIA is from the collection of HISPIA due to the lower HISPIA. The lowest ENVY has shown that a larger part of society can and will pay its obligations, but what is happening from now on in the exercise that we have said by May 2020 will be budgetaryly neutral. I repeat, the exercise will be financially neutral. And two final remarks. I heard you say that the Germans are more tolerant with the New Democracy. But the target is the same. How can you be more tolerant if they ask you to achieve the goal? Because you have invoked the results of the Eurogroup, you know that Eurogroup is all the finance ministers of the whole Eurozone. It's not one or two faces. You know what everyone's saying? With great comfort to achieve the target in 2019, which they did not support in June. Do you know what else? I'm hanging up with this. I've got the Minutes, what I said, because I'm too careful about that. I said: 'As a Minister of Finance I welcome the results of the Eurogroup, without of course triumphing'. You said I was triumphant. I don't triumph. I presented the picture that, yes, we finished the positive assessment on time, we received the disbursement on the profits from the retention of Greek bonds, ANFAs, ours, which we had deported for some years on SYRIZA and we got them without any conditions and conditions. Because you are very methodical and diligent and I have watched you in the committee, refer to the first half of 2019. A positive assessment in February, but on terms and conditions that they put in the previous government and came two months later to make the disbursement, after they did other prerequisites. This is a clear solution. And not just a pure solution, but a paragraph was added for the first time that we can start the technical process so that they can be used for growth rather than for debt. So I do not triumph, I present a picture just as it was taken on Eurogroup the day before yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u387	The reason for this is the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Besiropoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u388	Thank you, Mr President. I want to wish many years to all the celebrities and all the holidaymakers. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the debate in committee and in plenary. We may disagree, but we are discussing and have demonstrated that we have incorporated society's own remarks from consultation. We have never argued that with this bill we are resolving all the problems of society, but as we have seen from the hearing of the bodies that have been positively expressed, the tax bill is an important first step towards declining over-taxation. The tax bill is the first step towards building a fair tax system, which will not be a brake on the country's development. Because the policy of overtaxation, followed by the previous government, has essentially devoured growth. I have heard from colleagues from the Officerate of Police that the Tsipras government did not impose new taxes, but increased taxes already in existence. I think the citizens themselves have a full understanding of the reality and the tax burden imposed by SYRIZA. That is why they voted against. We cannot play with words, especially when the citizens were the ones who paid the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, it is Mr Tsipras's government which has turned the extraordinary contribution of solidarity, which had been reduced and progressively abolished, on a permanent tax, and at the same time more than tripling the tax rates. It imposed a 100% tax advance on freelance professionals and businesses. He put an end to pay-TV on the Internet. He imposed a residence tax on hotels and rented rooms. It imposed tax burdens on corporate cars, a distortion that we face with the provisions of this tax bill. He increased VAT on the focus from 13% to 24%. Basically, by reducing VAT on standardised products, part of the focus and electricity you made in May, you simply returned EUR 400 million of the 5 billion that you had taken from the citizens with all these measures. SYRIZA's government increased the excise duty on fuel. It abolished the reduced rates of VAT on the islands. Reduced duty-free from EUR 9,545 to EUR 8.636 with changes in the tax scale, burdening people with low incomes. And I stop here, just listing some of the twenty-nine tax burdens. On the contrary, our conscious policy is to reduce taxes. This policy was reflected on the first day of the country's governance by Kyriakos Mitsotakis, with the reduction of HISFIA. And it is even more strongly reflected in the tax bill, since the reduction in tax burdens is close to EUR 1.2 billion. Because our goal is to reduce the tax burden from 38.7% of GDP, recorded with 2018 figures, below the average of the OECD countries that are 34.3%. In this direction we are moving towards a reduction in the tax rate for businesses from 28% to 24%. In reducing the import tax rate of 9% instead of 22% which is now, for all natural persons, free traders, farmers, employees and pensioners, and for incomes of up to EUR 10,000. A reduction in total taxpayers, since their income is taxed on the basis of a progressive scale. At the same time, there is a reduction in the rate of taxation: from 29% to 28% for incomes from EUR 20,000 to EUR 30 000, from 37% to 36% for incomes from EUR 30 000 to EUR 40 000, and from 45% to 44% for incomes from over EUR 40 000. And it is the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis that increases duty-free for every child and regardless of the number of protected children. It is our government that comes and relieves people with disabilities more than 80% of the solidarity levy that the previous government has converted into a permanent tax. It is our government that reduces the dividend tax from 10% to 5%. It is our government that changes the taxation framework for benefits in kind to workers in the form of a company car and excludes from taxation as income for vehicles granted exclusively for business purposes with a retail sale price of up to EUR 17 000. It is our government that excludes the luxurious living tax from the private car use of multiple families. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I'm gonna need two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u389	Yes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u390	Thank you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to refer to the issue raised by the objections made by the Scientific Office of the Parliament, which I fully respect, on the issue of the compulsoryity of part of expenditure by electronic means of payment. You will allow me to tell you that there is no question of unconstitutionality with Article 7 of the bill, since the principle of proportionality is respected. It is a measure that effectively tackles tax evasion and makes it a stimulus. We all know that there were cash-in-transaction cash-in-transaction cash-in-transactions to prevent the revenues from appearing. In fact, the state's control mechanisms recently revealed a hundred cash registers that had suffered such interventions, resulting in a loss of revenue of EUR 25 000 000. With POS, however, this cannot be done and electronic transactions are a tool to combat tax evasion and increase the index of tax compliance. The aim of this bill is to strengthen the economic climate indicator in Greece even more. Already the ELSTAT figures for the third quarter of 2019 show a growing trend for growth and, as they all show, 2019 will be closed at growth rate that will move more than 2%. A fact that makes it perfectly possible and the objective we have set in the budget for the development of 2.8% for 2020. However, messages from international markets, but also from the climate that is shaping for Greece at European level, are absolutely positive. I would stress that the last Eurogroup has not only recognised the positive course of the Greek economy, but decided to disburse the second package of measures to alleviate the Greek debt, amounting to EUR 767,000. These measures include the release of the next instalment from the profits of the European central banks by Greek bonds. In fact, without the terms, conditions and prerequisites previously laid down. It is also worth stressing that the fourth report on enhanced supervision of the European Commission contains the most positive assessment ever made of the progress of the Greek economy. I would also like to point out the strengthening of the positive climate for Greece on the international markets, since the six-month issue of interest rates was closed at a negative rate minus 0.02%, confirming the assessment that Greece is now able to borrow at negative interest rates. This positive climate is coming to strengthen the tax bill that is being passed today. A tax bill with a strong reformist and developmental sign. The message that this bill sends is that Greece is now forming a stable and fair tax environment, but primarily an environment that creates the conditions for strong and sustainable growth, the benefits of which will be dispersed to everyone. His vote will be a confirmation of the positive picture that is now evident to the Greek economy, a positive picture which is reflected in society itself with the high degree of acceptance of initiatives, but also in the work of the government by the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u391	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor to make the legal correction.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u392	A very simple addition is in the amendment to distribute the emergency aid. Just because HICP participates, in order to make the process quicker and to disburse the amount this year, in the third paragraph of the article after the phrase: "By joint decision of the Ministers for Economic, Labour and Social Affairs" is added the words "as well as the State" which is essentially the one carrying out digital governance debts. That's all. In other words, to be able to make use of HICP.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u393	Thank you, Minister. The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Forum reform with a development dimension for Greece of tomorrow". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. We would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, sixty-seven articles, three amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. Each time on the screen up to four articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have voted for all the articles, amendments, the hotel article and the whole. After you have registered your vote, you may check it or even revise it by the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u394	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u395	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u396	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Forum reform with a development dimension for Greece of tomorrow" was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle, Articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u397	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u398	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-06-S1-commons.u399	With the consent of the House at 19.22' the sitting on Monday, December 9, 2019, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
