ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 11-9-2019, the Minutes of the PRACTICAL Session, of Wednesday 11 September 2019, were ratified by the Bureau, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: "Following it from 24-07-2019 PPA. ‘Application of measures to address immediate risks and needs in the areas of the Eastern Attica Regional Unit affected by the fires of 23 July 2018 (A' 127), the recommendation and the Statute of the company ‘Mati Again’ and other provisions’.]] Before entering the agenda for legislative work, the Bureau will first report on the day of national memory of the Greeks of Asia Minor. The Greek Parliament, acting unanimously on 24 September 1998, established the 14th September as the day of national memory of the Greeks of Asia Minor by the Turkish state. So, today, we honour this day, mentioning the sad events of September 1922, which ended the long history of the Greeks on the Ionic Earth. Ninety-seven years after the Asia Minor disaster we honour not only those who lost their lives, but those who survived the tragic events and managed to reach Greece as refugees. Furthermore, on this day our Church honors the memory of the Holy National Witness Chrysostom Izmir, who, although he had the opportunity to leave and save his life, chose to sacrifice, as a good shepherd, his flock and thus remained to the end in the strife of struggle and resistance. For many historians the genocide of the Greeks in Asia Minor is considered to be equal to the Colossal of the City. Izmir was the largest spiritual center of Asia Minor, with a dominant element in the Greek. The Hellenism of Asia Minor developed arts and letters. That's where the economy and trade bloomed. Today, then, we honor all those who lost their lives violently. The full account of this disaster, which occurred historically in two periods, 1914-1918 and 1920-1924, is indeed very difficult. The snatching and plundering of houses and property, agricultural and livestock disasters, the collapse of schools and temples, the torture of captives are some of the sad events. But we also honour the memory of those who survived and came to Greece under very difficult conditions. Despite the hardships and frequent questioning of the natives, the Greeks who came from Asia Minor managed to advance and distinguish themselves in many areas of Greek society. They helped the political, social and economic recovery of Greece. Equally important was their cultural contribution. Through our stories, songs and dances, Izmir, Ikonio, Caesarea, Banking and Samsunda were able to keep alive in our memory. The genocide of the Greeks in Asia Minor is an undeniable historical event. The commemoration of the victims of Genocide does not turn against the current Turkish or Turkish people. Greece wants good and sincere relations with all its neighbours, partners and allies, including Turkey. However, we are not going to make any discounts to the principles of international law and good neighbourliness. We call on the neighbouring country to commit to these principles and values, so that we can jointly build a future of security and prosperity for our peoples. The challenges and violation of the sovereign rights of third countries by Ankara do not help regional stability. Greece will, in any case, remain a beacon of democracy and stability in Southeast Europe and the Mediterranean. Thank you and I invite you to keep a minute's silence. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] Thank you very much. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House the topical and urgent question report of Thursday 19 September 2019. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 7/16-9-2019 by MP A' Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Protection of citizens and borrowers from the abuse of legal offices as tax collectors". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 6/13-9-2019 by the Vice-President of Parliament and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odysseyas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "To address the problems and stop the abandonment of the State Institute of Bytina." 3. The 18/17-9-2019 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "For the robbery of the grapes in the Regional Unit of Heraklion". 4. Mr Kritonas Arsenis, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Arsenis for his excellent report. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 9/17-9-2019, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "It is too late for pensions to be issued and the problems of pensioners are particularly marked after the reduction of their incomes, the abolition of the CSCE and the lower ceiling on pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Governance: "Following the Headquarters Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the European Network and Information Security Agency (ENISA), "European Governance Agency (ENISA)"". The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this agreement. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u3	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, I understand that you are entering the first party rapporteur's communication. That is what I understood, and that is why I asked for the floor. If I get it wrong, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u5	No, you don't understand well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u6	Have you announced the procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u7	We are entering the agenda, namely the ratification of this agreement, where under Rule 108 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure only those who objected to it have the right to speak. You are experienced, old, and you know it. Those who object to ratification may ask for the floor. But they can't even ask him for it. Do you have any objections, Mr. Kegeroglu?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, it also seems from the Minutes that we have voted against and, of course, we will also have the right to speak in plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u9	I see that the New Democracy voted in favour, SYRIZA voted in favour, the Change Movement voted against, the Communist Party of Greece voted against, the Greek Solution expressed a reservation, so it has the right to speak, and the MARA25 has the right to speak, because it voted against. So in parliamentary order, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, we will also have the floor, I imagine.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u11	Parliamentary representatives always have the floor, Mr Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, a bill concerning the transfer of the organization and the seat of ENISA from Heraklion Crete to Athens comes to plenary. From privately owned, modern buildings in Heraklion, from a place next to FORTH - the pride of our country's technology - comes and seeks shelter now in Athens, with a route from Markopoulos, Maroussi and I don't know in which other areas, in public or in private building, with rents approaching the 640 thousand and on the grounds - as indicated in the Ministers' replies, they are not mine -, monthly rental etc."The building on the Queen's Wisdom in Maroussi as the most suitable building - it meets the technical specifications - is near the airport of Spata". The argument of those who wanted to transfer the agency from Heraklion to Attica was that ENISA, the Agency for the Safety of Networks and Telecommunications, the head of the spear of technological development, should be - says - more close to Brussels and the European capitals. This according to the ruling, yesterday and today, means that it has to be in some municipality in Attica. It is indeed an argument that does not stand up, for modern times and especially for ENISA and the organisations that have this technology in their hands and which are engaged in this technology, distances and locations of this type do not fit. Other arguments may exist, such as that in order to come the executives want to be in a large city, in a big city, and they don't want to be in a city of two hundred and fifty thousand, such as Heraklion, they don't want to be in Crete and probably enter a second plane. You know, they want more than their lives. Such arguments could be heard, although I do not accept them. But false arguments, no. The appropriateness of the transport is specific. And, of course, there have been too many efforts to transfer this agency, which were integrated and coordinated after the change of director-general. And, unfortunately, they have found ears to Minister Voridis and then to the next government of SYRIZA, to Pappa and others, to Mr Spirtzi, to Mr Tsakalotos. An Agreement on the transfer of the seat of the Agency was signed in November 2018. It spent a quite long time and on April 1st the opening of the modern building in Crete. Was it a coincidence that it was April 1st? It's really someone laughing. They all re-emerged the organization, they all remembered that this organization came under the Greek Presidency in 2003, as they all remembered that an agency today for network and telecommunications security is more than necessary and Europe must really be synchronised with the Second Industrial Revolution and ensure citizens' communications. After ten days, Mr. Papapas submitted a bill to transfer the seat from the private building to Athens. The elections came, the bill was never discussed and the next government came. So the next government came, which had submitted as opposition by May 2019, seventeen questions. The capitalist was Mr.Augerakis, Herculiotis MEP, but others, Mrs. Michelle Asmakopoulou, etc. What they say to questions can be seen. There are too many of them. The answers are important, however, and it is important that the arguments put forward by the ministers for all that has been set up. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like some time, Mr President, if you would be kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u13	Yes, Mr. Kegeroglu, I'll give you more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u14	And you know, it's not a matter of localist, like some people went to present it. It is an issue that is relevant to both SYRIZA and the New Democracy's perception of how they perceive the development and role of the regions. Is it possible for the Municipality of Markopoulos to have better contact with Brussels and the other European capitals than with Heraklion? Where does that stand? Where can such a argument stand and come in a bill? He's coming to a bill! Why when you have built private buildings with European funding you say, 'No, I will now rent buildings'? "In the beginning..." - says - "... there will be an effort to find a public building, but if there is no building, we will rent buildings". Are there any buildings? Have you found one? The six hundred thousand of the GCC is a fact? It is the perception of the importance you are giving the region that it is the distortion of reality because you want everything in your yard. And I am talking about you who are enthusiastic here about Athens and Cologne and who do not have the perception that we as a party have of the role that the Greek regions can play. So we have a very serious issue. Greece, with Prime Minister Kostas Simitis, has achieved too many things and the next ones cannot keep them. It is, of course, a more general phenomenon: the huge work of PASOK in Transmolitanism, in all areas, and we cannot use it. One example I will say: We have seven university hospitals, fifty prefecture hospitals, one hundred eighty health centres and the last governments can't even support them, manage them, maintain them. That's an example too. We can't handle successes. We cannot manage the success of joining the Eurozone. And we entered another period immediately after, in 2003, with problems, with derailment, with crisis. It's sadly the day I remembered with the Asia Minor Destroy. What did it prove? And today it's analogous. We were unable, as Greece, to manage, with national understanding, the great success of the Serbs Agreement, we were unable to manage the great successes of Eleftherios Venizelos at that time. Disarmament, Asia Minor Disaster and constant problems. The same took place after the accession to the Eurozone, following the country's great successes. We didn't manage them. Derailment, yes, polarization and division, which continue today, and continuously small and large defeats. And they're defeated for the homeland. I consider this to be a small defeat of Greece in the regions, in the Europe of the regions! And I consider it to be a defeat for progress and technology! We are against this coup d'état SYRIZA and New Democracy. We are against this'silence of lambs', which one way or another consents to this initiative of the government. Because from the little ones we come to the big ones. Because it's a representative example of bruising. It is a representative example of how the SYRIZA government in 2015 brought us the third memorandum. It is a typical example that shows us what is now happening with Mr.Mitsotakis, who dares not renegotiate the signatures and the noose that Mr. Tsipras has put in the neck of Greece and society. We are therefore voting against this transfer of the Agency, and in any way we will support what we have started, the possibility of creating a strong agency for communications security, but of course there are no other, new defeats for Greece in the regions, for the progress of this country. This draft law will remain in history as a philosopher, but also as a cynical argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u15	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u16	I shall conclude, Mr President. They are cynically, because, as it says, "They are protesting there in Heraklion and we will leave them an office..." - Listen to the reasoning - "... to facilitate the transfer of the seat to Athens".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u17	All right, you've said it. Don't repeat yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u18	There is a cynical and, above all, unsubstantiated report, which is a disgrace to those who signed the agreement, but also to those who support it in this House. I call on the Members of the European Parliament, who were in the position that ENISA should be left in Heraklion, not to vote for this agreement. If they vote for it, they just laugh once more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u19	Mr Synthyriakis, before continuing with the next speakers, colleagues from the other parties, he has asked and will take the floor - perhaps he should have asked from the outset, as would be more appropriate - for the Minister. Then those of you who are entitled to take the floor will follow. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Parliament is now invited to discuss and ratify the Headquarters Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and ENISA, the European Network and Information Security Agency, now known as the European Governance Agency. This issue has already been analysed in detail in the relevant Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice, but with the tolerance of the members of the committee I would like to repeat in plenary some of the information that has already been heard. The agreement was initially signed in November 2018 by the previous government. It replaces the previously signed agreement in 2005 and was ratified two years later, in 2007, and essentially concerned the establishment of this Agency, ENISA. ENISA is founded in 2004, that is to say, 15 years of life - established by Regulation 460 - and its mission was to deal with these emerging issues of protection of critical infrastructure and of information and education and strategy at European level. The initial seat of the organization, as it has already been heard, was Heraklion of Crete and at the same time was created in Athens and an interface office. Within its jurisdiction, this organization has rapidly developed close and systematic cooperation with the Member States, with the Commission, with universities. I think, however, that the most interesting here is the essence, and we ourselves understand why the policy of protecting critical infrastructures is very essential and very necessary. Critical infrastructure is first defined as critical infrastructure, goods, systems or subsystems necessary for maintaining the vital functions of society, such as water networks, distribution and transmission systems, infrastructures, ports and airports. The mobile telephony network is also such a critical infrastructure. And it is very important that we have both a European policy on critical infrastructures and a national policy on critical infrastructures. Here too, let me mention two examples which, in my opinion, are very interesting to have them in mind. One is very close to us, because it is about Cyprus. On July 11, 2011 in Cyprus - as we all know - an explosion had occurred at the Evangelos Florakis naval base in Mari. The explosion had started from one of the ninety-eight containers with explosives and weapons, which was in the camp yard. They had been seized two years earlier by a Russian ship. Very soon this explosion has expanded. Thirteen people first died and sixty - two were injured, one of whom later ended up in the hospital. And the fire from the big explosion also had an extra consequence. Next to the camp was the largest power plant in Cyprus. It was the king's station. The island's been sinking in the dark for days. It was also forced to buy power from the occupied ones. And it was later estimated that this damage had cost 13.8% of GDP in Cyprus and that it also played a very large role in subsequent economic processes, even in signing the memorandum from the Cypriot Government. This station was a critical infrastructure. It's not purely digital. And now this gap between the physics and the digital sphere has been greatly reduced. But it should have been avoided. Such incidents are also extremely rare, but they are extremely substantial. They have huge repercussions. We do not usually learn them, because either experts prevent them or in many attempts, their outcomes are never known outside a closed circle of experts or political leaders. But the war between those who are responsible for protecting the critical infrastructures of the countries and those who are trying to harm them is rampant but silent. The most famous example of cybersecurity incident - it is older, 11 years ago - is at the factory, at the Natanz nuclear installation in Iran. With a virus - where no one officially knows who planted it, he had entered a USB stick from a diplomatic bag - someone managed to destroy a nuclear power plant. And this Stuxnet virus was considered the first digital weapon of mass destruction. And of course we all read, we hear all these stories about how large databases can now be exploited even to influence a state possibly electoral outcomes in another state and directly affect its critical infrastructure. cybersecurity and critical infrastructure protection policy are a priority for the government. It is a given - and we need to see this, we need to start moving immediately - that in the next inter-ministerial bill there will be a provision regarding the new organisational structure in the Ministry of Digital Governance in relation to the national cybersecurity strategy and the definition of the National Governance Authority. And here the very interesting thing about us in relation to ENISA is this: how can we become from a country which is simply hosting ENISA, a country that uses ENISA? It's so simple. Because there are thirty three decentralised agencies in the European Union as a whole. By the way, eleven aren't in capital cities. In Greece we host two. The two we host are Cedefop in Thessaloniki and ENISA. And with this agreement, what we have tried to do is to ensure that it remains in our country. For a certain period of time, its value has been recognised in the course of the course and it has become an infinite body of time. The agreement, of course, does not come to produce results. He's coming to recognize an existing situation. The interconnector office in Athens was much larger than the office that existed in Heraklion. And what's actually going on? It's just changing the use of buildings. The essence of such events - because the presence of ENISA in our country is of national importance - is to be able, firstly, to secure their presence here and, secondly, to build with a wider strategic ecosystems around such structures. With regard to the decentralisation strategy and the decentralisation policy of the government, I think it goes without saying that digital transformation is the chief decentralisation policy. In the Digital Transformation Paper, which we will be presenting in the next few months, we will have too many such actions for which there will no longer be a need for citizens to come in direct contact with the natural infrastructures of the public. But as far as the digitisation of the states goes, as long as we enter what many define as the 4th industrial revolution, by the way, digital is the 3rd industrial revolution. The fourth is the convergence of the digital, physics and biological spheres. We have left behind and in the third while we are approaching this point, it is certain that we must start with infrastructure security. We had the opportunity until yesterday to be at the Digital Summit in Tallinn, and the first thing that was discussed in all the relevant positions of the conferences of both companies and states was how we can ensure the security of data as we go through the paper in digital data. And it is a given fact that this is something that we are also concerned with. Finally, with the Headquarters Agreement you are invited to vote on the presence of ENISA in Greece is turning a page, but it does not delete the pages that have been written so far. These pages are many and valuable. There are the conditions that this new page will be particularly effective in terms of cybersecurity both for the European Union as a whole and for Greece in particular. As I said before, the risk is from a host country to become a country to exploit this great European infrastructure. So I urge you to approve the Chair Agreement to be adopted, which creates the right conditions for both the European Union and Greece to move in the right direction in terms of cybersecurity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Minister. My colleague has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Syntrakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. It is clear from the discussion that only the Communist Party of Greece raises the essence of the issue regarding the role, purpose and functioning of ENISA and is not taken away from the disorientation of the government, SYRIZA, the Movement of Change, the Mera 25 and the Greek Solution for where it should be based or why it leaves Heraklion and is transferred to Athens. After all, all of them have also stated to the committee and so far they consider it necessary for ENISA to exist and function. For the Communist Party of Greece ENISA, established as its main aim, was to ensure a high level of security of networks and information within the European Union for the smooth functioning of the internal market of its Member States, namely the protection and security of the interests of business groups, particularly in the areas of strategic importance for capital, such as trade, transport, energy, the banking and financial system, where big capital seeks to invest safely by strengthening its competitiveness and profitability. This objective is directly linked to the European Union strategy for the free market and free movement of capital and to ensuring the competitiveness and profitability of business groups in the context of the more effective implementation of the Maastricht Treaty and, more generally, the capitalist way in which the economy operates. Transferring the seat of ENISA is not made by any invisible hand or by some localist hostile opposing interests that want Heraklion's evil, as other parties are trying to give. It is related to the upgrading of its role by a simple security organisation of the European Union's internal market to a European cybersecurity agency. This has resulted in a series of amendments to the ENISA operating regulation that further strengthen its reactionary character and the great monopolistic interests associated with the cyber-war. The so-called cyber-war, ladies and gentlemen, has evolved in the field of fierce intra-imperialist conflicts and intra-urban competitions. The European Union on behalf of its own monopolies in their extermination competition with other competitive monopolies of other imperialist states, American, Chinese, Russian, is trying to shield its networks and information. ENISA shall upgrade and extend its objectives, including additional and police tasks, i.e. adapting the technological infrastructure for the repressive mechanisms of the European Union, such as Europol and Eurojust, and the relevant services of the Member States, by leveling the insufficient and falsified measures of alleged protection of personal data in the national legislations of the Member States. Its size and importance is thus growing, its interconnection with the major monopolistic enterprises in the sector, with NATO, by expanding its framework and horizons for action. Developments with ENISA show that there is no European Union policy that is not directed towards serving the interests of monopolies, that is, not only is there no guarantee of human rights or of civil protection as it has been said, but, on the contrary, we have constant monitoring of workers' lives and, above all, with the aim of slandering any point of view of radicalisation. It is clear from this that the JRC is contrary to the role, content, objectives for the establishment and operation of ENISA, whether it is in Athens or in any other part of the European Union, which is why we disagree and vote against. Mr President, may I end by saying one point: at a time when we are talking here about the European Union's reactionary network and information organisation, in the European Parliament today, we are discussing and voting tomorrow on the obsolete resolutions of raw anti-communism and a disgraceful counterfeiting of history entitled 'For the importance of European memory for the future of Europe'. These resolutions, please, have been tabled by the Groups of the European People's Party, the Social Democrats, the European Conservatives and Reformists and the Liberals on the occasion of the start of World War II, with which the Soviet Union and the Red Army, which have broken down the Nazi hordes, have not been called upon to condemn them. Their main objective is to take even harder anti-communist measures, banning communist symbols and measures to suppress the communist parties, even calling them criminal organisations. They are developing the rotten construction of communism-fascism and the need for international condemnation of crimes of totalitarian communist regimes as the victims of stalinism and Nazism say. They replicate the long-time provocation associated with the Molotov Pact - Ribentro, which quickly divided Europe and opened the way for the World War II event, just to cover their colleges, such as the Munich Pact that had precedented. In fact, these disgusting resolutions - constructions go to the point of calling for a new Nuremberg for communism this time. Ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliamentary Group of our Party opens an open letter to both Greek and Cypriot MEPs to reject this unacceptable and condemnable content of the resolutions on the basis of which there is a rape of historical truth - the irresponsible equation of communism with the monster of fascism coming out of other times - and legalise the ban on the action of Communist parties, communist ideology, the persecution of communists and popular forces fighting. These resolutions acquitted the crimes of fascism - Nazism and water down the mill of the criminal fascist structures in Greece, Cyprus and the whole of Europe. We call on you regardless of any different historical approaches and assessments, because it is really unprecedented to falsify the history that has reached us to the point that the Soviet Union has given rise to countless sacrifices, twenty million dead, tens of millions of injured and incalculable material disasters for the defeat of fascism as an ally and partner of Nazi Germany, which has contributed politically and economically to the conquest of Western Europe by Hitler. I am therefore aware of our ideological and political differences, and we call on your European Parliamentary groups to condemn and vote against these resolutions, as well as any resolution that will be put on the basis of them. Because anti-communism is not a means of ideological confrontation, but poison and tool of political persecution and oppression of peoples. So not in the counterfeiting of history. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr. Synergy. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the Parliament, and toured to the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", 50 students and three teachers from the National School of Public Administration and Administration. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue with the list of speakers from the opposition parties. We are applying Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure. I don't have to read it. I give the floor to Mr Constantine Heta from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is unfortunately with the eruption of ENISA that, once again, the state has been followed up. You're going to tell me, the state keeps having more serious issues for the New Democracy, won't it have for ENISA? I would remind you that it was the SYRIZA government that decided to transfer the seat of the only agency for the European Union from Heraklion to Athens. Today, therefore, the New Democracy Government, as a worthy follower of SYRIZA and Mr Tsipras's work, is indifferent to all possible negative consequences and moves forward in this move. Minister, you told us very well before. No one disputes how important the role of ENISA is. Of course we agree. For the government security and all these examples you brought us, we are with you. But you have not told us anything about the substance of today's debate, which is the transfer of the seat. We know how important the role of ENISA is. I listened very carefully. But you did not tell us anything about the substance of the transfer of the seat. I said, therefore, that the state has been constantly in the New Democracy and the ENISA part, and that is very simple, it is easy. The state has continued for the New Democracy on more important issues such as the Prespecies - it has continued to agree entirely with SYRIZA and New Democracy - as it is on the part of illegal immigration, which the New Democracy treats as government in the same way as SYRIZA was dealing with, on other issues such as Religious Affairs. Our schools began a few days ago, and Mrs Kerameos did not change any of what she complained about as a responsible for education as opposition. And of course, Mrs. Kerameo and SYRIZA went beyond herself. Something that SYRIZA did not dare do, she did it herself, and the religion and citizenship of the dismissals are now being removed. The state therefore also keeps up with ENISA and the very important issues that concern our country. And not only are you taking ENISA, Minister, from Crete, but you tell the Cretans, goldening the pill, that "we will leave a piece there, a part of the organization to deal with something as well". It is, in short, what we say that ENISA will have in Crete and will be like not having ENISA. Indeed, Minister, ENISA was created to strengthen, if you like, the ability of the European Union to direct, respond, avoid problems relating to safety, in common with cybersecurity. We are talking about a European agency based in Greece. This alone is an element - and we will agree on it - that strengthens our country's image abroad. However, our country must also fulfil certain obligations and appear to be worthy of these expectations and do not act as a "Greek" once again. Because we usually work that way. It is no coincidence, therefore, that on 17 April 2019, a few months ago, ladies and gentlemen, the new European Regulation was adopted, which upgrades the role of ENISA. Only this fact demonstrates to us the importance of cybersecurity for the European Union in general. Greece, as a Member State of the European Union, has a very important role to play. We need to ensure some necessary conditions: suitable facilities, suitable equipment, infrastructure and in general we need to shape this whole landscape in which ENISA can operate. But we have some obligations. That's where we usually mess up. We're ruining the Greeks. Initially, when we took over many years ago, when the agency was founded in 2004, and for that, Minister, you should speak to us today, about our country's obligations - the commitment to direct flight of Heraklion - Brussels has never been implemented. This commitment has never been implemented. In fact, this fact, that this commitment has not been implemented, was also the step - if you like - for the people of ENISA to say that ENISA should be transferred to Athens. Listen, now, the oxymomile, not you, but the world out there. The building was opened in April 2019. Five months ago the building was inaugurated, while in November 2018, six months ago, the agreement had already been reached. In other words, we agreed to change the building, and we continued building, spending money on the Greek state, the Greek people and opening up. What will become of it, Minister, now? I'll show him to you here and testify to him in the Minutes. It's a state-of-the-art ENISA building. Has any of my fellow Members seen it? Or you just talk and say things in the air. Does people know this building is the ENISA building? These are state-of-the-art facilities, which anyone is jealous of. Look at this. Mr. Kegeroglu, have you seen it? It's also in Crete, you know that. You are looking, Mr Kegeroglu, MPs of Crete to vote against. We, Mr Kegeroglu, are looking for Macedonian MPs to vote against the Prespecies Agreement and bring Kotzia here and we can't find it. Will you now find out about ENISA? Please. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So this space was inaugurated. He's excellent. It has brand-new offices, conference rooms, conference rooms, parking. It's an amazing place. We let him come to Athens, where we are looking to find room to cost another six hundred thousand a year. We have said about the direct line, which we have never achieved. The second problem or obligation to which we have not responded, Mr Minister, and I mentioned it to the committee, and Mrs Giannakou replied to me that we had undertaken the obligation to build and operate a European school. That's never happened. But what did we do again, scumbag and greek? We found a place, we kind of built it, we built it, and it subordinated a school. Question: School, Minister, in Athens, this European school where will work? Are we going to build a new one? I hope and look forward to answers. You're also in favour of decentralisation. The agreement, of course, provides for the transfer of ENISA from Heraklion to Athens. It's SYRIZA's deal. Take one initiative too and change a deal. Okay, the big Prespecies Agreement can't change it. Change this ENISA agreement at least. Since you are also in favour of decentralisation, you propose Thessaloniki. There, we have the airport "MAKEDONIA". I will call it "MAKEDONIA" and let some people be disturbed in here. It is not the airport "Thessaloniki". It is the airport "MAKEDONIA". We therefore have many places in our Macedonia, in the capital of Macedonia, to host ENISA. Obviously, you don't care very much. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll run, Mr. President. Cybersecurity is a unique opportunity presented in Greece at the moment to lead developments and play a leading role. This agreement must be amended and it must not remain as it is. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] We will vote against the transfer of the seat. In any case, if this agreement is passed today - which will of course be voted on by the majority - I would like to say to you: we as opposition will do everything we need and will monitor it to implement, as must, in the national interest, the progress and prosperity of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, before Mrs Bakadima is called to Step, I will have a slight delay. I would like to make two announcements to this House, which must be made to the House. The first communication is as follows: In its No 15314/8798/16-9-2019 decision of the President of the Parliament, the Rule 119(8) of the Rules of Procedure provided for in the Constitution was established. The relevant decision has already been posted in the ‘Parliamentary Transparency’ since 16 September 2019, has been distributed to Members of Parliament and will be registered in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u26	The letters sent to the Presidents of Parliament on the same subject and their replies to the names proposed for participation in the Constitution Review Committee will also be submitted for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u27	I would also like to inform you, as I have heard about the same subject and the Conference of Presidents just before its meeting, that the Bureau of the Commission on the Revision of the Constitution will - as is customary - be an intergroup practice which has been observed in all the revisions of the Constitution. The President will be from the majority party, the Vice-President from SYRIZA and the Commission Secretary will be from the Change Movement. The committee set up will meet next Friday 20 September at one summer to elect the Intergroup Bureau and as I have informed the Conference of Presidents, I would also inform you that the deadline we will give is one month, that is, from 20 September to 22 October 2019, in which time the relevant report should be submitted so that further procedures for the revision of the Constitution can be initiated. As you know from the Constitution and from the Rules of Procedure of the House, the review procedure must be completed within the First Session of this period. We're already in the first session. Does the House agree on the one-month deadline from the first meeting of the committee following the election of the Bureau, leaving - obviously - a margin for the fact that it does not finish its work to give us a new decision a shorter deadline for the completion of the report?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u29	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, is this a decision by the Conference on the deadline for the committee to function?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u31	It is a decision of the Conference, which is announced and ratified in plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u32	Good. We do not agree and I would like to remind you of the common position we had with regard to the short deadlines, respectively, which the Conference of Presidents had chosen in the previous part-session. Indeed, the work of this committee is less quantified, because it was tens - perhaps hundreds - of the proposed provisions of the parliamentary majority at the time, and they are now fewer, because they are the decisions taken by Parliament and gave provisions of fifty-one or more and eighty-eight-eight-eight-eight-eight-eight. So I understand a shorter deadline, but in the month that starts on 20, then it takes a weekend, we won't be able to make it. I'd say you were more generous in time and give two months to the Constitutional Review Committee. As you quite rightly said - it is a reproduction of constitutional provisions that you say - we have a deadline for the first session of Parliament and we are at the beginning of it. Time's not pushing us. I understand that there is also the one regarding the election of the President of the Republic in the constitutional provisions under review. I understand that. Perhaps the changes there with the responsibility of SYRIZA is a matter of the majority and only this today's majority. Okay, everything is understandable, but one month I think it's too short and I ask you to give a longer deadline.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u34	Here, Mr. Janakopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u35	I will be very brief, Mr President. I would remind you - and I would remind you in this House too - that in the proposed parliament the original proposal was that the Constitutional Review Committee should function for a month. Then, of course, different positions have been heard, different opinions. They wanted all parties to be more generous in relation to the timing of the drafting of the proposed provisions. That is exactly what the Bureau did then, it gave two months. At the moment, of course, there are fewer provisions that the committee needs to work out. However, don't forget that we no longer have a proposal for provisions to be revised, but - on the contrary - we have provisions which should be processed, which will then be binding on everyone. The wording will bind everyone, not just the direction or orientation and the general content, as is the view that has already been put forward by us, and that will certainly have the time to discuss this during the committee. With this in mind, the legislative work that needs to be done within the committee is much more complex, much more time-consuming, and that is why I think there should be an extension of the working time of this committee to two months. Of course, I do not know whether all this is relevant to various regularities that the government wants to get drunk in relation to the election of the President of the Republic, as we learn, we hear positions, according to which the majority does not change its view of the fact that it will propose that the President of the Republic should be elected by Parliament by a simple majority of fifty-five Members, without intervening elections, which, in our opinion, is a crucial, if you want, anti-institutional political behaviour that leads to a legal situation within the Constitution that causes reasonable concern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u36	Mr Lebanese has asked for the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u37	It is understandable to place the committee for a possible longer term. I think, however, that the procedure that you described and discussed at the Conference of Presidents will be able to shorten this time and, in any case, if you see that it takes a little more time, I imagine the committee will be able to continue working. So I think that in this, since there is a decision, our position is clear that it is good to run, because society is asking for speed, political time is compressed, and so we must be able to respond. With regard to what has been heard, I think that even in the softest places here and even in the most consensual issues, such as the Revision of the Constitution, the SYRIZA side wants to constantly discover stumbling and powder. The previous parliament had agreed exactly that this election work of the President of the Republic should be changed and that it should be possible to complete the electoral cycle. It had been repeated many times by Mr. Tsipras. Today Mr. Janakopoulos came to tell us that this is not the best process. In any case, I think that SYRIZA and all its members have been overturned in the past to create problems in continuing the legislative work, obviously of the great change in the Constitution. And it is clear that this is just confusing, so that it does not go ahead and the parliamentary procedure is continuing. Our position is clear. We are in favour of one month and I think that is the way to go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, a clarification of the viewpoint.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u39	Mr Velopoulos has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much. As far as I understand it, the problem is the President of the Republic and we are talking here about the Constitution and the revision, a major issue, with a stumbling block. Why does the New Democracy not say that its stress is the president's election to discuss it seriously? This is Mr Lebanese's haste, that the state wants to hurry and the rest, since 19 August, when this House opened up, I have not seen many Members of Parliament. At least we're in here. So the problem is the election of the President of the Republic and it is, of course, unacceptable for the opposition to confuse the institution with the Revision of the Constitution. For the month you give us, Mr President, I would reasonably say that it is short in time. Don't be fooled. Give more to finish this story and go to a serious talk about the revision, because by stumbling for the President of the Republic all we do in here is damage to the institution. Everyone invokes the President, and that is a shame. The New Democracy is rushing to go to the hundreds of fifty one - its right - and the others do not want to go to the hundred and fifty, they want two hundred, consistently the House itself to deceive the institution of the President of the Republic. It is unacceptable to play a small-party game with the institution. Give ten, fifteen more days. Do they want two months? Two months to finish, if you want, and the pretext of history. On the other hand, I was informed by colleagues that they were not asked. It's been announced that it'll be a month. Mr Villiardos and Mr Avdelas were not asked to the Conference of Presidents. You said that 'is that'. So don't say that the Conference of Presidents decided. They didn't ask. You said that and the story went through like that. But that is not the point. You said you'd also give a little extension of time. I say, then, that if we want to be serious in Parliament, we should leave the justice and the President of the Republic outside micro-groups. That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u41	Today's debate will not take place in the time of the constitutional review. I say this because I see that we have started the debate on the constitutional revision. The Conference of Presidents raised the matter. Mr. Katrugalos expressed concerns by citing about what Mr. Loverdos and Mr. Janakopoulos said. No reservations were expressed. It is therefore considered that the Conference of Presidents, given that SYRIZA objected, decided by a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u42	It's not important, it's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u43	Now, if you want to tell me that it has not been taken up in this way, it is a suggestion which is announced and ratified by Parliament. Watch out for a bit. Indeed, one month may have to go further, which is why we leave this reservation. It is up to us when the work of the committee is done, to ask us for time if it considers it necessary. The obscured directive is being followed and not a government directive. We follow the swept of our home, that is, the House. The previous Review Committee of the Proposed House had to work out more than a hundred fifty articles in total because they may coincide with some articles between the parties, but they had other content. We now have to work out a final one - because there is no next phase, except the new Constitution - forty-nine articles, of which - I say to colleagues who have not followed the review - in fact it is thirty-nine because ten of them concern the abolition of transitional provisions in their 1975 constitution. It was therefore judged on the basis of both the well-founded practice of the past - both the extreme and the immediate - that a month can arrive. We have, however, put it - if that is not enough - and without prejudice to the fact that the committee may request an extension. So, in order to close it and move on to the next communication, we have decided at the Conference of Presidents with the reservations that have been raised, which is what I call for the plenary to ratify, taking note of the reservations expressed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u44	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Pachilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, I would like to say something when the other Members are finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u47	All right, Mr. Loverdo. Mr. Palphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u48	You say, of course, that an extension may be made. In order to avoid all this controversy, to decide two months and to end. I think practically nothing is blocking anything. There are objections. A month's really a little bit short. It'll look like this from the deed itself. Instead of reaching the point of extending, we could now set two months. I don't understand what objections might exist. If they're done before, let them end before. We say this in practical terms so as not to confront matters that can be resolved at ease.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, a clarification of the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Janakopoulos, you have the floor. The spokesman of the New Democracy said that SYRIZA is changing a position in relation to the President of the Republic and the political position that political and parliamentary circles should not be interrupted due to the non-election of the President of the Republic. There's no such position on my side. What I said is that it is very different to try to find a consensual solution as a Parliament so that the President of the Republic can be elected without elections and quite a different thing to decide and order the Communitv with a hundred and fifty-one votes to appoint the President of the Republic. That's to put things in place and know what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u52	I really wonder about Mr. Janakopoulos' placement. Assist gave the New Democracy. It wasn't Spaniard. She gave her assailant to do everything on her own, and now she's complaining that she's going to do it? I think that's not right. If anyone has the responsibility for the in-white mandate he gave to the New Democracy, he will be subject to it. We are now in existence, but we are all in existence together. It is not just SYRIZA, because we said 'don't vote'. We also agree with the change in this article, but do not give your vote to the next House in the first party - which may not be you and be another - the possibility of doing everything on its own. But I wanted to take the floor for another matter. Mr President, you have set the day and time. Well, as far as day is concerned, but the time you change it. We call as a political party for you to change the time and take it to the afternoon. We do not have to say that in plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u53	There are commitments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u54	There are commitments. You announced it to us all of a sudden. Contact the parties and go a little later this afternoon.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u55	We set the hour at 13 noon because the Finnish Ambassador was informed for the six months of the Finnish Presidency and many members of the Constitutional Committee are in the European and Foreign Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u56	Because we are also in the Committees of European and Foreign Affairs, but we are a political party and have our own programming, we ask you to do so at 17.00 in the afternoon or on Monday. Please get in touch with us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u57	You have the privilege of MP II and now of the Northern Sector, but do not forget that Friday is a precarious day for many colleagues from the Greek region.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u58	Good. Let's go on Monday then.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u59	No, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u60	Why not? Let's get to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u61	No, no. That is why we put it at 3 p.m. so that we can also satisfy the inconsistency with the communication from the Finnish Presidency of the Finnish Ambassador, but also to satisfy colleagues from the province. Also, because they said he's intervening on the weekend, the month's time counts from week to week, doesn't count on Friday.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u62	It's counting from week to week, but a political party tells you that it asks for a change of time and reminds you that two months and more that we have been holding meetings as a proposing parliament, we would know about both the hours and the days. Now it was a day's announcement without consulting us. We're asking you to change the time, take her slower.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u63	We cannot change it, Mr Loverdo, now because the conciliation took place before, at the Conference of Presidents and did not raise any objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u64	But it's a matter of plenary, it's not a conference.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u65	Okay, but there's a suggestion that includes the concept of understanding that you requested. It's a pre-consensual thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u66	But you're persistent on a matter of time. Now, is it possible to have this debate in plenary? You should take it at 7:00 this afternoon.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u67	And you're persistent. We're both persistent. It's not just me. Be fair. But I want to tell you something for a month. Under the Constitution, Mr Pafile, the procedure after the committee's proposal is not one month away from the two votes, but it is one and the other. However, because this is a reform of the Constitution now rather than a proposal, as it was in the previous House, there is obviously not going to be a debate at only one voting session. We also need a reasonable time of debate, beyond the day of the vote. That is why we are provoking - without prejudice - and we are putting it in the month, because we also need time for any meetings we consider - and we will all judge together - the plenary which will take place in a final vote so that the country can obtain the Fourth Review after the Reform. So let us start with the good oath that there can be a dense and thorough debate within a month, without abrogating the reservation that we have made for an extension. So this House accepts the decision for a month with the possibility of a short deadline if the committee so requests?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u68	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u69	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u70	The House therefore accepts the decision by a majority. Also, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 entitled "Tenical Responsibility of Ministers", as in force on 16 September 2019, a criminal case for, firstly, former Greek Prime Minister Alexio Tsipras and, secondly, the former Deputy Minister of Justice Dimitrios Papagelopoulos. Now, after the two announcements, we invite the party, on behalf of the party, Ms. Fotini Bakadima, who is a special buyer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today there is a very clear development in technology, which changes the data every day, creating a changing reality with its own parameters and special features. So the issue of cybersecurity is a matter that concerns us all. I therefore believe that most of us agree that the role of ENISA must be central. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] But let us now go to the bill we have to discuss today. The agreement had already been filed by the then Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Mr. Nikos Pappa, on 10 May, but was unable to conclude on account of the end of the parliamentary term. That's why we see the whole draft law is exactly the same. The explanatory statement, the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, is exactly the same as those of 10 May. The organization, as mentioned above by colleagues, was created in 2005 and started operating in Heraklion, where it was a development pole for the city and for the whole island, as many structures were set around it to meet the needs of the organization's staff. For example, a European School was set up for the children of officials who, although the necessary support was not given to him, we believe that if they had succeeded in blossoming. In 2018, ladies and gentlemen, the first step was taken with the initial signature of the Agency's seat transfer, a step that will be completed today by the final ratification of the agreement. Alongside the organization's headquarters in Athens, Heraklion's office will be maintained as an annex, at least until this transfer is completed. However, it remains unclear what will happen and what will be the future of the office of Crete, when this process is completed. In fact, we would like to know, Minister, what provision there is - if there is - for that reason the building will be, which, according to earlier statements by the Executive Director - is at its inauguration - is a building that meets the highest standards for a European agency and has offered the staff of the Agency to Crete the best conditions for the safe execution of its activities. At the same time, we would like to know what will happen to all the infrastructures created to meet the needs of their staff and families. As MERA25, we are firmly opposed to the transfer of the seat. We realise that not all the necessary structures were available in Heraklion. Nonetheless, this cannot be a reason to cancel one of the elementary decentralisation cases that exist in the Greek state. On the other hand, this is a clear reason for creating the necessary infrastructure in the region. In fact, it gives us the impression of an expression in the text of the agreement that the transfer of the seat will help to attract high-qualified personnel. Do you think if the organization were to stay in Heraklion, would it not manage to have the same kind of staff and qualifications? Why so much deportation for Crete, ladies and gentlemen, especially from a government with Prime Minister coming from the island? It is worth noting here that since 2012, when the transport debate has opened, many Members have reacted, whether publicly by means of announcements or by submitting questions, and it is a dispersed impression that we will eventually be able to transfer the organization outside our country. Among those Members who reacted at that time were many members of the Officerial Representation and now governed party, and that is why we are at least surprised that today the New Democracy brings this agreement and even defends it with such vigour and strength. Apart from the transfer of the seat, however, the agreement contains several provisions relating to the staff of the agency and the exemptions that this enjoys. If one visits the ENISA website, it can be seen that it employs sixty-four people, but no mention is made of the type of staff, neither of the occupational status nor of the selection process and of course no reference to the wage system. The Minister at the last week's committee meeting pointed out that the Greek state does not cover the salaries, so there is no wage burden on the budget. However, the question is still unanswered as to the amount of lost profits that the State has from the reductions and benefits provided for workers and their families, since they include not paying VAT or traffic charges. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more minute, Mr President, I will need to. Thus, the final burden of an already sensitive and anemic economy in a country such as ours, which has been ruthlessly hit by the austerity policies imposed on it since 2010. Returning now to the question of the transfer of the seat - and to close - we are wondering how the building was chosen in Maroussi, since the agreement clearly states that the rent is fixed by a ministerial decision. If this decision has been taken, why has it not been communicated to us? Why didn't we get a report explaining the choice procedure of the office? The mere mention of the fact that over the past two years expenditure has been EUR 640,000 per year is not enough. We also consider, as a PARTA25, that there is a lack of a report which would inform us of what the transfer of the agency would cause in Crete. We cannot understand how such a move began in 2012 without the necessary study of the effects of the distribution of the organization both for Crete and for the future of ENISA itself. Merra25 considers that ratification of the agreement will be the first step towards the definitive removal of the organisation from our country and fully recognises the need to decentralise and strengthen the region. It is therefore voting against the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u72	The floor has been asked by the President of the Greek Solution Mr Velopoulos for five minutes, with due tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u73	Even for the conventions, will the President speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u74	What can we do? That's the way it is. Mr. Velopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u75	You know, we're talking about contracts because we're incompetent, Mr. Loverdos. I heard my good friend, Mr Kegeroglu, earlier, talking about a very important issue. For me, the country's major issue is decentralisation. Minister, what have you done now, so I can understand? We have a province that has structural problems. The province has real problems. You come and take something that is very important from a region of province, region, and you transport it to the hydro-headed state of Athens. What's the point? Why should all decisions be taken from here? Why should this happen in Athens of five million people? Nowhere in the world is there a capital country with half the country's population in a city. Nowhere, Minister! And instead of making decentralisation choices, refocus on Athens. Tell me why! The province is marveling, sanctifying the region and making choices and making decisions that are atheistcentric. For fifty years the Athenian state - as it operates - of Cologne, has forcibly condemned the region. A government is coming, today, which says it is technocratic, to bring back the sepsis - because it is rotting this thing - of the hydro-headed state. We disagree with philosophy, Minister. I'd like the Minister to hear me when I talk. Please, Minister, I want you to listen to us all the Members, not just me, all. We're obligated. Please, Mr. Comrade. It's not right what you're doing right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u76	Leave the impressions. A consultation is always necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u77	And if I did, it would bother you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u78	He can hear and speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u79	I don't know if he can hear and talk. I am addressing the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u80	Go on, Mr. President. Don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u81	I don't have a dialogue, but what I did, you should do it, Mr. Bourras.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u82	...the Bureau makes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u83	Mr. Buquoir, please. Go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u84	The Athenian central state is the result of bad choices for decades. If you want the country to go forward, see how Germany, France and other European countries operate. It can't be here. A Macedonian investor cannot make an investment, go down to Athens seventeen times, to get seventeen cards from seventeen ministries. And that's a simple example. And now you're bringing me an agency from Heraklion. She was fine. And tell you why she was fine? Heraklion or Crete has the chance to have one of the leading universities in Europe. Let's not forget that the University of Crete is top HEI in Greece. How, then, do we not support these choices and make choices that show old-fashioned and perception? I understand that most parties operate in Athens, but that's not the case. At some point we have to leave the centre of Athens and go to the district. It can't be done. It is fundamentally indifferent to the government as a whole for the whole region. An office in Crete is maintained at an annual cost of 640,000 euros. So I'm told it costs the rent and the cost of this nice building we built. Listen to sense. We build a building, we spend money and then we come as a new government to change the building, throw away the previous money and put more money on a very same item. Minister, it's wrong. Whether it's 50,000 euros or 100,000 or 200,000, it's the wrong choice. After we made it there, leave it there. And I don't understand, doesn't the state always have here? Isn't the state always here, Minister? Where's the state that's all the time? Because that's what Mr. Mitsotakis tells us. For Skopje, he says the state keeps going. Isn't the state always here? Is it uninterrupted? Are they inconveniences? Is it like the power? So decide whether or not we keep in the state or not. Also, how can it not have a transfer cost budget in Athens on the sole grounds that it is not certain whether a building will be found. So you understand what you're doing? Will you ever go buy a home, personally, but you won't know if you're gonna buy it or if you have money to buy it? That's what you tell us here. How do you transfer a building without knowing the cost and whether the building will be found and how do you get it from there and take it somewhere else? Overmodern facilities remain in the void - state-of-the-art, Minister - in Crete, Heraklion, inaugurated in April 2019! Four months ago the building was inaugurated, we cut ribbons, Ministers went, MPs, mayors said theirs, they shouted, they spoke, what a beautiful thing! Has anyone gone from New Democracy? PASOK's main partners, Mr. Kegeroglu, were any representatives in 2019 from New Democracy there at the opening?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u85	How he wasn't!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u86	How he wasn't. So, what's he gonna say now? "Sorry, did I make a mistake" after four months? Do you realize we're laughing ourselves? Do you realize you're laughing at yourself? Do you understand that it's a mesaic comedy what you're doing? You sent MPs in April 2019 and in October you say, go the building, go elsewhere now, go back to cut ribbons. I mean, that all of this shows that it is in a sense of useless political action. They're not useful policies, they're non-popular. We shall now go to what came today at the NOVARTIS. Let's talk a little bit serious. Aren't you ashamed of New Democracy? Well, don't you have a little shame in the New Democracy? They beat you up, they called you crooks, crooks, misadwards, and now you put the tail on your legs? They're calling you cowards now. "AGEY" today told you cowards, said you were cowards. If you are not cowards - 'NOVARTIS' I am referring, Mr Colleague, then you are morally self-sufficient in a cover-up. Pick and take. Because so far Mr Tsipras has told you that they are many ministers and MPs in the vagina, and now suddenly you all go out and say we will not politicise or criminalize political life, putting the Prime Minister in the candidacy. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President of Greek Solution is ringing.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, political dignity cannot be dismantled by delicate micro-party choices or - if you like - false dilemmas 'I am not running a Prime Minister in court'. You're wrong, gentlemen. Mr Trump, the President of the United States, sat on the stool by a prosecutor for what he did in the past or did not. Now, why are you afraid to put a Prime Minister on the stool if you're right? Because here it will be said: you were not right. Only that's what you're gonna say, not that you don't criminalize political life. You're gonna say you weren't right. Either you were right or they were right. Decide. Both aren't. And I say it because this story two years passed on to Novartis. And don't tell me that you don't know what 'NOVARTIS' means. Don't tell me you don't know where the story started from America. Don't tell me you don't know that fines were imposed. Will you impose as New Democracy any fines on this company? Do you have the courage? Oh, no. Neither did SYRIZA have it either. And I will explain to you why the New Democracy does not have the courage with "NOVARTIS" and it is very easy to see it. Look who's involved in history, because the 'NOVARTIS' case is not a simple story, it's the third company worldwide and Mr. Loverdos knows what I want to say. He's making billions of euros, and don't tell me now that only the doctors grabbed them. Because in the end, we will say, some medical visitors and some doctors took them. No one got them in Greece, as was done with "SIEMENS". In "SIEMENS" no Greek politician got them. No one took them, because no one was in jail, because no one really went to jail. Colleague, if a politician took them, and he said he didn't take them, go to jail, drive him to jail. No one's been in jail. Nobody. The Christmasman's free. You forgot about that, too. Christopher was drinking coffee next to me. Beside me! The one who said he loved Greek politicians! I saw him in Berlin because I'm going regularly to Germany. Now, are we kidding? That's what we're going to live on from behind? I say, therefore, that the case-file relates to Antonis Samaras, SYRIZA, Panagiotis Pikrammenos, Giannis Stournaras, Dimitris Avramopoulos, Adonni Georgiadis, Evangelos Venizelos, Andreas Lykourentzos, Marios Salmas, Andreas Loverdos, George Koutromanis. That's what SYRIZA said. He said it was about you. And today, as glorious and noble guys, you don't want to criminalize - it says - political life. Really? Is that it? Are you sure about this? Because I repeat that if that's it, then that just means they're right. You have been denounced for hatred, and today you say 'We do not criminalize'. So if they call me a cheater and a thief, I'll say, "I don't criminalize political life"? There's morality, there's dignity. Aristotle has said it for thousands of years: 'Political ethics'. Understand it. And we're going to the worst of everything. Why is "NOVARTIS" very important? Because Greece is a special purpose country - so it calls it - and of special interest. He knows what I mean by Mr. Loverdos. Because an increase of 10 cents in Greece translates into 25 million euros for the company. Ten cents a drug, 25 million euros gains. And that's why? Because the price of the product in Greece affects the price internationally. So this company - because I'm a businessman - would like to have more money. This money wasn't found in any politicians, no big executives, no one. The company only makes money. Politicians or executives or doctors didn't make it. Nobody. Everyone will come out 'the angels of the cleansing' and they will say that nothing happens, everything is fine. A Papagelopoulos will be dragged to the courts as it appears and will be acquitted at the end. Here we go. Because in this country the problem is not that there are no laws. In this country, the problem is that the laws are not applicable. The pluralism, I repeat, and the non-implementation of the law leads to scandals. If, then, you really want, you, of the New Democracy, to keep the trace of political dignity, go on, put the knife on the bone, finally see if it was yours or if it was yours. Clear things.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u87	Complete, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u88	Finally, I would like to say this because it is indeed a matter. I don't want to remind you what Mitsotakis said. Listen to what Mitsotakis said here on August 8th. The Prime Minister told Mr Tsipras "you set up a craftsman and now smile." Tsipras said "Make an exam". Why don't you? Tsipras caused you in here. "Screw" says the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u89	Completely, that's not what we're talking about. They will all take the floor for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u90	Mr President, I hope you will do this to another President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u91	Don't take advantage of any tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u92	You never do.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u93	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u94	I'm the one who's here, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u95	Complete on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u96	Listen, you'll find out the Rules of Procedure. The president of a party speaks of whatever issue he wants. Please very much. I'm not a congressman. Behave me as party president.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u97	Mr. Velopulus, not whatever he wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u98	You'll treat me as a party president. Do you hear me, Mr. Bourra? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u99	Finish it, Mr. Velopoulos. And tolerance is twice the time you are entitled to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u100	And our tolerance is more. Trust me. You do it all the time and especially in the Greek Solution. Please respect the Greek Solution. We got 3.7%. You'll need it along the way. Understand that you will respect, like the rest of the parties, and the Greek Solution. It's over and out. I am not discussing this and I am not negotiating it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u101	We don't want any advice, Mr. Velopoulou. We have a course and a personal route.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, will you let me finish or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u103	Finish it, Mr. Velopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u104	You were telling me, Mr. Bourras, here in the House seven, eight, ten years ago that there are no oil in Greece. You yelled underneath! Please very much. Don't talk to me about personal journeys. You yelled down there. Let's actually go and hang up with this. There is a lot to be said and there is a lot to be said. I don't have time. Today, "Bilim 2", the Turkish ship, is in Kastelorizo. I will once again say that at some point the Prime Minister of the country must invite the Presidents of the parties and codecision on the red lines. Bilim 2 is the research vessel in Kastelorizo. At some point we can see that this Turkish provocativeness and the rationality of Greece will lead to a loss of national sovereignty. We are prepared to tell you what the red line is. New Democracy has red lines? Unfortunately, neither in Skopje has any red lines in Cyprus nor in the Aegean. Put red lines on because I see us in the 25th meridian to lose half of the Aegean and then say "it was the previous ones". Put red lines on, there's no other way!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Loverdos, have you asked for the floor on the bill we're discussing?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u106	Yes, Mr President, I would like to speak on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u107	Mr Loverdos, you have the floor as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, following the position of Mr Kegeroglu, Secretary of our party's parliamentary group, and the Standing Committee, but also here, I would not have much to say about the draft law. I wanted to react when the Minister, Mr Pierracakis, spoke, but the way you did, the debate lost its directness. In practice, Mr President, the Minister will never stop the flow of the rapporteurs and speak before or after them. So I missed the opportunity to tell him what I'm going to tell him right now, in retrospect. When he speaks as representative and rapporteur of a party, Mr Kegeroglu, and the Minister breaks the process and talks afterwards, we understand that something serious has to say about what has already been said. Word! You said, Minister, all the arguments about how serious this agency is. We agree. After all, we agreed that Greece should take him, whose government I was a State Secretary with Prime Minister, Mr Simitis, in 2003. My experience with international organisations says that all countries taking part, parts or the main body of individual international organisations decentralize them. I have visited too many such cases, in small towns, away from the capital cities, because this is how the country that has undertaken to host an organisation and convinced the European Commission. We did this. The logic of decentralisation is not exhausted in local government. It extends to the independent authorities, Minister, and certainly also to the functioning of such bodies with European or international content and character. As a result of this practice, we have seen Greece change, Mr President. When we took the lead in 1981, the municipality's decisions were still under control of feasibility. And we have a local self-government, as all modern world countries have, with I and II degrees. We have the decentralisation and decentralisation that Greece has today and is managing. We had also made choices of this kind, stimulating life through international organisations, not in cocoons, but in cities that have international radiation. An international organisation is in Thessaloniki, which has an opening to seventy million citizens of southern Europe. Also, the second organisation is in Crete, Heraklion, where HETH is located, the most important research centre in the country, on an island that is a real paradise and gathers people from everywhere. I was told by your colleague, Deputy Minister of State today of your Government, and then a dean of the University in Chania, that for a postgraduate section - Mr Georgiodta, we were together in the government that we heard of these - for twenty-nine posts there were ninety candidacies coming from African countries. In this sense I, too, worked as Minister of Education, with Mr Georgantas, and we had founded five classes for undergraduate studies in English, which were directed at foreign students outside the European Union, and we were ruined by SYRIZA, Mr Baltas. These measures are serious and correct, especially when they are ordered behind them and a number of infrastructures. We do not tell you that this body is not serious. We tell you it is. It is for this reason that the Simitis government has taken the initiative to ask us to host it here. We do not tell you that negotiations should not have taken place so that his presence here is not transient but permanent. Yes! We do not tell you that it should not be stimulated and its operation through our own initiatives. Yes! We are telling you why you accepted a very bad SYRIZA's choice to retreat to Athens? Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. A service related to cybersecurity - so it contains high-tech operating forms - does not matter if it is in Halandri or Maroussi, if it is in Heraklion, Crete or Athens. We told you that you had to deal with this with a negotiation mood and change it. If you said yes, Mr Kegeroglu, I fought it, but I risked losing the organization, and that is why I chose this solution, then I understand you. But while you have heard the criticism, you do not agree to comment on it. You have taken up Mr. Pappas' choices and you continue as if you hadn't been there for two months. There is one issue - and I will close with it - much more acid for Greek citizens and Greek women. Having taken the floor from this Step - the most serious public step the country has - I told you about the insurance. In very basic parts of the five funds, people, particularly the health workers, of the CSAY, are going to make the regulation of a hundred and twenty instalments and cannot tell them how much they owe. Here comes the end of September, when the deadline for the hundred and twenty instalments is over. You haven't said a word. Soon the Greek people will tell you that what you received from SYRIZA, you created them. In this comparison I would like to make you think that there must be a very special, excellent reason - which you have not mentioned and should be doing it now - which is to say: 'I have brought this agreement now, I have not kept it for fifteen days, twenty days or a month to negotiate and explain to me why this organization must come to Athens and because I have not been able to lose it, I have even made this choice', which cuts out the building that was built for this body, cuts out all the problems that I have mentioned. You're on top, Mr. Pierracakis. You did not agree to answer this argument from the opposition - which is in line with the essence of this organization, people said it clearly - and you told us a number of general things, but which were not at the heart of criticism. So vote for Mr Pappa's contract. I'd love to, do it! We're not with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, fifty students, three teachers and two members of the special scientific staff from the National School of Public Administration and Administration. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u111	In reply to some of which have been heard, I would like to say that I shall begin by commenting a little on what you said, Mr Loverdos. You said in general that the decentralised agencies of the European Union are being used to promote decentralisation. That's inaccurate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u112	You've got the wrong idea.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u113	Of the thirty-three organisations, 11 are not in capitals and they are in five countries, namely Germany, France, Italy, Spain and Greece. Of course we want to promote decentralisation and it was indeed very good that this organization had as its seat in Heraklion, Crete. I just said it in my speech, but you probably didn't notice me - this agreement comes to recognise a reality, not to shape it. And that's why right now you know how many people we're talking about in Heraklion, Crete? It's seven. The building is of FORTH, it's not ENISA. The building won't be lost. In Athens right now, we have ninety-five people. As far as the international conventions are concerned - you are experienced, you know that very well - there are things we need to be more discreet about how we place them. It is a presumption that the placement of such an organisation is not a unilateral decision. It is a process that comes in cooperation with our partners and in talks with them. It is clear that these talks have been held and it is clear that today we are coming to ratify the outcome of these talks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u115	Mr President, the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Kegeroglu, we can't play ping pong. In any case, I give you the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u117	Mr President, I take the floor for a minute because it is of particular importance to us and the history and cultural attitude of the parties and before the elections. It's not true. Mr Voridis' agency, as I have said, has gradually been moved to Attica, in Markopoulos, in the constituency of Voridis. So there's not seven employees in Heraklion. Mr. Vorides left seven. So before the elections, when Mr. Papapas signed the transfer agreement in Athens, New Democracy also lifted the stones. Then that was not the case, Mr. Pierracakis, where did you say? Did you make irresponsible opposition, Mr. Pierracakis, then? Or, because you were not personally in New Democracy as a party official, do you think that everything that you officially went to New Democracy does not concern you? Look, in the New Democracy, you take the legacy and derailment of 2004-2009 and the actions that have then been taken and the political stance. You have no good past because you once passed through PASOK and evil now or because you are now in New Democracy. You have all your legacy and you will apologise on the whole. That is why you are also exposed to the policy you have taken at the time and do not take a position today and take a different attitude to the conversion and the mutation you have. You should speak to us with evidence, with political positions and not without vaguely more at once. Be well, Minister, New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u118	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u119	Mr. Loverdos, I gave the floor to Mr. Kegeroglu while it was not right, but because he was the sovereign who recommended this issue. You have the floor for a minute to say, but you're having trouble with me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u120	Look, I'm not making it difficult for you. I have the possibility from the Rules of Procedure since the Minister has spoken to me to speak. It is Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure and I call for it. I'm gonna need a minute or two. I think the debate is closing. I have failed to say in our own governments - Mr Kegeroglu has made a reference now and reminded me - what we have done since 2004-2009 in terms of pharmaceutical expenditure, to which Mr Velopoulos referred in a friendly way to me. With the struggle we did with the dozens of reforms in 2009-2010 and then, in 2013, we poured out billions of expenditure on the medicine. We did a great deal of work as ministers, Mr President, for some locators we were less indulging in order for these governments today to enjoy a relatively normality. You are not entitled to confuse the meanings, Minister. I have talked about decentralisation and decentralisation - one - and the parallel processes that governments are doing. You mentioned the examples of your responsibility that you know, Greece and another four when claiming parts or the main body of international organisations to place them where they consider it best. I have been able to visit, again, in many countries of Europe and the United States, too many critically such centres or bodies that are not in the capital cities. When you have something in your region, you make use of it. One question - which is why I am taking the floor: have you been trying for the two months when you are a minister to change the previous agreement or are you calling for previous efforts by other colleagues? You answered what happened. Did you do it? And tell me what the danger was if you didn't give your deal, so we can understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u121	Mr Loverdo, so that the Bureau does not have any responsibility, we are not discussing Rule 64. We are discussing Article 108.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u122	I have taken the floor with Rule 64.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u123	No, look at the tasks, obligations and capabilities of the parliamentary representative at all times determined in accordance with the article in which the debate takes place. The debate is in accordance with Rule 108, which even defines a strict way. Parliamentary representatives are not scheduled to speak unless the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups speak. This is not the case for you now, but we are not discussing - because you have said so - with Article 64. Article 64 gives other possibilities. As far as the Minister is concerned, I said that the Minister can take the floor whenever he wants, but it would be good before Mr Kegeroglu begins. He didn't know, he asked me after the speech, and I had to give him. He didn't say anything to answer or answer Mr. Kegeroglu. However, since the debate has taken place with a very good tolerance - I believe - of the Bureau, I shall now give the floor to the Minister. Minister, you have the floor, as soon as possible, to answer what Mr Loverdos said, of course. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u124	Very soon I will reply to Mr Loverdo that it is self-proof in this sense. I mentioned before that we had gone to Tallinn for the Digital Summit. In Tallinn, NATO has an organization for cybersecurity. Tallinn is entitled to have this organization for NATO cybersecurity. Why? Because they're first in cybersecurity. In all the discussions we have, most of which, as you know, are informal, it is clear that the country's international rankings in international indicators affect the country's ability to claim such organisations and put it in doubt. I am as clear as I can be in relation to the discussions I have had. It is clear that these discussions have taken place. Now, with regard to personal reproach by Mr Kegeroglu, which I think is out of the spirit of ratification of an international agreement, what I would like to say is that the judges are indeed judged, as one had said and that we all have our history, but they are not here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u126	Mr President, may I table something in the Minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u127	Anything you want, you can testify to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u128	Mr President, I would like to turn to the question of the New Democracy Party, signed by Mr Aygeakis, Member of Parliament and Secretary of the New Democracy, by Mr Pierracakis' party, who, two, three months before saying exactly the opposite of what Mr Pierracakis says. I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u129	I will give the floor with a tolerance, perhaps because of the absence of knowledge of the Rules of Procedure, to three parliamentary representatives: Mr Georgios Logiades, then to Mr Villardos, because he was not aware of Rule 108, but he has prepared it and we will not deny him the floor, and finally to the Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy, Mr Bukoro. You'll make it easier if you take the floor for exactly five minutes. Please keep the time from now on. Here, Mr. Loyadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u130	Of course, thank you very much. I'll be brief. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we must learn not to look at solutions to problems in terms of wishes and political controversy. We should analyse our problems with sobriety and knowledge and give the best possible solutions. This also applies to the issue of ENISA which we are debating today. It is a very great agency of great importance, as we have all mentioned. We have not been able to support this organization and give it self-evidently. All governments over the years that ENISA has been operating have not been able to meet the circumstances, challenges and opportunities they have had. The state proved far below the contractual obligations it has signed. Over the last two days in Heraklion, Crete, I met high-level ENISA officials who have expressed to me the problems they have encountered over the years, the contractual problems that our state has signed with the European Union for ENISA. The first point was that the state should have set up a European standard school in Heraklion, which never worked properly. People came with their families, brought their children, but the school was not working properly and sent to Brussels. They told me yesterday: "You understand, Mr. Logiadis, what a problem it is for a family to be in Brussels and we in Heraklion". The second self-evident and contractual we had as a state sign to do was an interconnection of Heraklion Crete with Brussels at regular intervals throughout the year. Nor was this so that people should come through Athens and go to Brussels - that made it very difficult for them - and the third, which we said here today too many times, the offices that were supposed to be ready in 2004 and started in 2019. It was not for me yesterday very pleasant to discuss with the staff of the ENISA in Heraklion. ENISA beyond what is like an institution could have many multiplier benefits for the local economy of Crete and Greece, of course. We could have a tourism all year round with an interconnection between Heraklion and Brussels and abroad with a lot of multiplier benefits for the economy and also, for the local society, such an international European school, such a model would have very great advantages for Heraklion, Crete and Greece. In all of this, unfortunately, we proved to be small and did not cover our contractual obligations, we did not honour our signature, as people simply told me yesterday. We were now asking for self-evidents and what did we actually do? Ladies and gentlemen, the bill introduced by the government for voting is in fact a simple parliamentary ratification of an agreement ratified by the previous SYRIZA government with Prime Minister at that time by Mr Tsipras and Mr Heraklion - I would like to stress - Mr Tsipras himself, who is focused on transferring the seat of the European Agency from Crete to Athens. We should even at this point in time just before its specified vote to express our strong concern and I regret that, as one of the great demands in Greece today is decentralisation. I speak not only as a Member of the House, but also as a member of the district. It is clear, therefore, that this legislative ratification is done in the opposite direction, namely the transfer of powers from the region to Athens, as if we did not have so many responsibilities in our hydro-headed capital. In conclusion, by closing down as a PART25 we do not agree and we will vote against this draft law, which, in our view, is in the wrong direction. For me personally as a member of the Region of Heraklion and also Crete, today is a great grief to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, too, Mr. Logiadis from Mera25. I will now give the floor for five minutes to the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr Villardo.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u132	Thank you very much, Mr President. Although this bill seems painless only to address the simple transfer of the seat of the European Governing Agency from Crete to Athens - where we are of course opposed, since we consider decentralisation necessary - we want to draw attention to just some parts of it. Starting with the first, on the issues of law philosophy, I will say: Firstly, it seems in general to be an agreement on the establishment of a European basis in Greece outside our national sovereignty without control and with complete immunity, i.e. the US military bases. Secondly, the transfer of the seat to Athens seems to have already been agreed at a European level where, however, the New Democracy MEP, Mr Manolis Kefaloniannis said he would vote against it and put it in the Minutes. Therefore, there is probably no possibility of not being accepted by Parliament, despite the fact that other Members of Parliament of the New Democracy, such as Mr Aygeakis, who considered the transfer to be a sign of arrogance, are opposed and I shall also present it in the Minutes. Thirdly, Article 7(1) states that if there is a responsibility of the Hellenic Republic on the activities of ENISA, then it will be possible to claim a fine. So we ask here: is there an assessment of the public's risk in this case? We note that this bill comes after that on personal data, which was voted on under the urgency procedure and with sufficient care. And according to reports, the rapid increase internationally is expected in the cost of breaching personal data in the years to come, reaching five trillion dollars, including fines. I'll testify for the Minutes. What will happen, then, in cases where there are any data leaks from ENISA in cooperation with domestic residents? On the basis of Greek legislation, penalties will be small, but they may be imposed much larger than the international community. We remind you here that in the past, the German Intelligence Service, BND, had been charged with collecting information in Europe on behalf of the US NSA, too, that BND had been reported to monitor Greeks with Internet intercepts. I shall also present it for the Minutes. However, in the draft law there are no safeguards for the protection of sensitive data and information relating to our national defence and security, which must be looked at in particular. As far as the second basic section is concerned, the economic burden or benefit issues are concerned, we see that the Greek State should cover the rent of ENISA in Athens by maintaining an annex to Heraklion. In this respect, a protest has been published by the former owner of the offices used by ENISA in Markopoulos, when it was decided to transfer it to Maroussi, which states that the rent in Maroussi costs more to the state. Is that true? I'll testify to the protest on the Minutes. It is also concluded from the report that ENISA will rent about three hundred square meters. With an average cost of EUR 15 per square metre for offices in the Amaroussi region, the rent can amount to EUR 234,000 per year covered by the State. However, the article 'EURACTIV' states that the amount of the rentals of Heraklion offices to be closed is EUR 250,000 and 40% of the total. I'll testify for the Minutes. We therefore assume that the rent for the offices in Athens is about 400,000 euros. Why is it so high? This amount can almost be made by a school. Does it make sense for Greece to be charged with bankruptcy? With regard to the third main section, the positive or negative consequences for the economy, I have to say: The stay of ENISA in Crete would support its prospect of electrical interconnection with mainland Greece, noting that the competition for linking the island to the Peloponnese by 2020 and with Attica by 2022 is under way. I'll testify for the Minutes. In other words, we believe that ENISA's stay on the island would also support the implementation at Community level of this great strategic project for Greece. It would also be of military importance in terms of Cyprus as a result of Turkey's claims to the EEZs. In conclusion, we hope that our questions will be answered by the Minister, and that the Members of the House in Crete will vote in a conscience, although the attitude of the Macedonian MPs, when we asked for twenty additional signatures to our own tens to investigate the Kotzia case, was unfortunately not expected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u133	We close the circle of Parliamentary Representatives with the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr Christos Boukoro.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel the need to reiterate once again that it is indeed the New Democracy that respects the continuity of the state through its signatures and agreements on smaller or larger issues. We never said otherwise. New Democracy is being sprayed by its political opponents for self-evidentness in other European states. We know that this position, our tactics can contrast us even with fixed positions that we have expressed in the past. But at the same time, we recognise that this practice contributes to the seriousness, efficiency and then the state. It's about decentralisation now. Ladies and gentlemen, it is natural that in a country where 50% of the population lives in the metropolitan centre, decentralisation remains an enduring demand. We have been discussing decades of decentralisation. But I have the impression that when we talk about digital governance and cybersecurity, decentralisation is neither buildings nor employees, but the applied policy of digital governance. And the Minister clearly told you. I would like here to make a reference to reactive colleagues, because I would like to remind you that the establishment of the agency itself in Heraklion was a product of another New Democracy government that respected and implemented decisions taken by a previous government. I am ending the parenthesis and saying that the Minister told you earlier that Tallinn, Estonia can effectively claim such organisations because they have moved to digital governance, they have made huge leaps and are global examples. Here, we have the phenomenon of a defensive country having a chance, with political decisions and political agreements of the past, which have been implemented by all governments, to host such a body. But when you host such an organisation without going along with similar digital governance policies and cybersecurity, your claims are not as effective as other countries, as I said before, but also the Minister. So what I want to say now to the Minister is that these policies which he has announced must go ahead. Decentralisation for us is not whether there will be the seat of an organization with eight employees, while in the Annex of Athens, in the liaison office, the workers have already reached ninety-five. We have reached the point, namely, that the liaison office hosts multiple staff from the agency's headquarters. Uh, it becomes obvious to transfer the seat, however, when your partners are pushing you for other reasons, such as accessibility of managers, etc. So these issues have nothing to do with decentralisation. Decentralisation for us, Minister, would have been possible tomorrow, if - or as soon as possible - the farmer of Heraklion would have received the relevant documentation from ELGA and OPEKEPE from his home in Heraklion, and this would be done safely, with cybersecurity, without data leaking. This is real decentralisation - this has also been done in Estonia - when we talk about digital governance and cybersecurity. Otherwise, for what they sounded timidly or directly here about the case of the file that came, we have days. What New Democracy has always done - and it will also do on this issue - is that it is always institutionally committed to its moves. The New Democracy is in no way divided at all. In any case, parliamentary procedures are data. The next few days, we'll see everything. Be well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr. Bukowo, too. We are closing today's debate with the Deputy Minister of Digital Governance, Mr Georganta. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to mention two things in this House and contribute to the debate that has taken place. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are not deciding whether the seat of this European agency will be in Heraklion or Athens. This was decided by the previous government. In this decision of the previous government, of course, they reacted at the time to New Democracy MPs, the Members mentioned, MPs from Heraklion, and perhaps not only and have asked that this decision be justified by the government at the time, on the criteria and reasons that led to this agreement. That's the one part. It is a point that has certainly happened. However, no inconsistency and no discontinuity in the state could then have, when this House is here, brought the current government to ratify this agreement. Because there are some data which should not be underestimated and devalued, because otherwise, we denounce our role in a debate today on such a very serious issue, on a very important European agency. One is that from the beginning the seat was in Heraklion, but there was an interconnection office in Athens. Now the roles are reversed. The other is that from the outset this European agency has been in a specific country - 15-year-olds, nine-year-olds at the beginning, 15-year-olds with the extension - and that has become indefinite. Some can understand what that means in relation to someone's desire to create a new framework for cooperation between this European Agency and our country. And finally, it is important to upgrade to the area of cybersecurity of the particular European Agency. I think we're downgrading our role here when we're confined. We can understand them well and reasonably - but I think we need to see the big picture. And the big picture is that we manage, while we are not at the corresponding level of progress in this area, to keep the seat of this organization in the country indefinitely established, with a liaison office in Heraklion, and, of course, to show that the country has both the credibility and the continuity it needs to distinguish in all its agreements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, Georgios Koumoutsakos seeks permission from abroad on Monday 16 September 2019, as well as from 19 to 20 September. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u138	The House therefore approved the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u139	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u140	No, in every word there's a match. That's not how we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u141	Mr President, I am asking for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle of and the articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Governance: 'Following the Headquarters Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the European Network and Information Security Agency (ENISA), the European Governance Agency (ENISA)' is concluded. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u143	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u144	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u145	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u146	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u147	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u148	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u149	Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Digital Governance: "Furthermore, the Headquarters Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the European Network and Information Security Agency (ENISA), the "European Governance Agency (ENISA)" was accepted in principle by a majority. We shall now vote on the articles. Asked by this House: Can Article first be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u150	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u151	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u152	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u153	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u154	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u155	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u156	The first article was therefore accepted as a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote of the President-in-Office. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u157	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u158	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u159	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u160	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u161	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u162	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u163	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Digital Governance: "Furthermore, the Headquarters Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the European Network and Information Security Agency (ENISA), the European Governance Agency (ENISA)" was accepted in principle and by a majority. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u164	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u165	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u166	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u167	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u168	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u169	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u170	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Digital Governance: ‘Standardisation of the Headquarters Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the European Network and Information Security Agency (ENISA), the European Governance Agency (ENISA)’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u171	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau to ratify the minutes of this sitting in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u172	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-18-S1-commons.u173	With the consent of the House at 12.39 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 19 September 2019 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
