ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 25-11-2019, the Minutes of its NW morning session of 25 November 2019 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau.]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House in writing: ‘With this document we inform you of the topical and urgent questions raised in the context of parliamentary scrutiny on Monday, 25 November 2019 that the topical questions to be discussed are as follows: The topical questions with number 194/11-11-2019, 226/18-11-2019 and 234/19-11-2019 will be answered by the Minister of Culture and Sports Mr Styliani Mendoni. Question No 201/11-11-2019 will be answered by the Minister of Tourism, Mr Theocharis Theocharis. Question No 197/11-11-2019, 209/12-11-2019 and Question 980/27-9-2019, pursuant to Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure, will be answered by the Secretary of State for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Digalakis. Also, due to the blockade of the MP, the first question raised by Mr Christos Giannoulis, Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, will not be discussed by the references - questions asked by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Christos Giannoulis, Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Reopening of the building on Egnatia Street 13 as a student home of Alexandreio TEI of Thessaloniki (International University of Greece)". Finally, it will not be discussed - after the meeting of the Minister and Members - the second under number 1065/3-10-2019 of the petitions - questions by the Member of Parliament Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Meropis Jufis to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Timeline of appointments in Special Education and Education, establishment of organic posts, division of industry and specialisation and vacancy coverage". After that, the second question will be discussed under number 209/12-11-2019, the second question of the Second Cycle of the Greek Communist Party, Mr. Ioannis Delis, the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The problems of the students of the Department of Nursing - the Twin wall Annex". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Education, Mr. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to be very consistent in our time, because we are very pressurized today because of the obstruction of the State Secretary of Culture.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u2	I will do my best, Madam President. Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that we hope with today's question that we will help resolve a serious issue which concerns a remote region of our country in Thrace and, more specifically, the Dumotite of Evros. Minister, the winter academic semester is slowly heading toward the end, but there are university departments whose function has not yet begun. Yeah, well, you heard it! It's over November, in December, Christmas and the Annex of the Department of Nursing of the International University in the Dumotich has still not started working with what that may mean. I would remind you here that this Department of Nursing has been operating since 2007, which has been operating for about twelve years. So the lessons have not been started. The officials assured, from what we read in the press at least the electronics, that they would start today. As far as we can tell, they haven't even started today, and it's really unknown when the lessons will start. The cause? There are no teachers. First of all, what kind of school, what university, should it be without professors? So the question, Minister, to you is simple: what will you do as a government to ensure not only the operation but also the start of the school? Meanwhile, there is a very serious risk of losing the winter six months for these students, at least six hundred, seven hundred, who have come from all over the country, spending their parents. So what are you going to do on this matter? We expect to hear and tell you some other details. But the main thing is that this is what we think it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Delis, I feel really special discomfort and embarrassment as an academic about the situation that prevails in the annex of the Department of Nursing Thessaloniki in the Dymotech. The point is, however, that all those responsible for these phenomena feel no shame. The previous political leadership of the Ministry of Education has been confined to micro-political and voter games without any planning, without any provision, without any involvement of the IPO, has been conceived to university-level TEI departments, even by legislating just before they leave. In fact, we also had the innovation of setting up a Department of Nursing, which is based in Thessaloniki, with an annex to the Didymotech. All of this was done without regard to the substance, which is no more than the quality of the studies provided in tertiary education. The result is what you are saying: the capture of young people, young students and their families, who are faced with a situation that is not worthy of them and certainly does not respond either to their dreams or expectations. So this is the Department of Nursing in Dumotikh, which has had major problems in infrastructure, in educational staff, as has been pointed out for years. However, this did not stand in the way of the previous political leadership. Instead of addressing these problems, it also increased the number of importers. It's not eighty-three percent that you mentioned your question. The incumbents increased from two hundred thirty to two hundred fifty-five this year. The hypocrisy will not be hidden here, because it is well known to everyone that at the end, there remain eighty and hundred students per year in this department. I would also like to refer to the administration of the International University. We in the summer, when we took over, made two contacts with all the institutions that had departments that had come from mergers with TEI in order to see the shortcomings and problems. Although the Department of Nursing had pointed out to the Management Committee of the IDPC the problems in Dumachi, we had no information, as a Ministry, from the Management Committee of the ICPC. However, we are now in contact with the Department of Nursing in the Dumotikh, and we notice the difficulty of reversing or even limiting negative development. As your question is basic and reasonable, I would like to tell you that the ways in which teaching staff can be recruited in one department are specific. According to the allocation decisions taken, of the twenty-eight positions allocated to the International University, reportedly by the same institution, two positions concern the Department of Nursing. These are in the process of calling. Appropriately, twenty-five teachers were assigned with the a.d. 407. Sadly, however, so much for the posts with the B.C.E. 407 as well as for academic scholars, our information is that a limited number of applications have been lodged and, in fact, most candidates did not fulfil the formal qualifications. The situation was more burdened by four resignations of temporary teaching staff. It is therefore a great need for significant support. The responsibilities are obvious. I don't want to say any more evidence. The citizens, however, need care to come out of the deadlock in which they have arrived. I would like to refer to the permanent solution. As far as the solution to the immediate problem is concerned, first of all, there are positions which concern mature and temporary staff, which we have increased from four hundred sixteen to sixteen for all Greece to six hundred seven this year and, at the same time, to support directly the operation of the department, we are in contact with both the Department of Nursing and the Department of Medicine of the University of Alexandroupolis, in order to help to support the teaching needs for the current six months.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, so far we have known that in all universities, in all schools, there are serious shortages of teachers, infrastructures, etc. But at the Dumotich, this has been terminated. There is nothing there either in relation to educational staff, but also in relation to infrastructure. I will give some examples to the people who are listening to us. That is what is happening in Dumotich, a city which, if anything, has a strong historical identity - for those who know - and I think it does not fit in with such treatment. You've blamed the previous ones. We're not the ones who will acquit them. In addition to Mr Gavroglou's respective bills, we voted against them both with our hands and, indeed, made a major criticism, unlike New Democracy, which we believe has made superficial and epidermal criticism. But the responsibility now, Minister, lies with your government. The responsibilities of the former were judged in the elections. From now on, the New Democracy Government also has responsibility for the Duma Nursing Office. You cannot come here and say that there are problems of communication - because that is what I understood - with the Management Committee that it did not inform us of all the relevant issues. I don't know. You have to find a way to contact each other, to get in touch, because ultimately the bride is paid by those students, parents, who send their children - we monitor the publications - from one end of Greece to the other, they pay rent, they have a lot of expenses and their school still run, with a risk of losing - as we have said - and six months. In the meantime, we have concentrated mainly on the lack of teachers. There are no teachers, just as you confessed. Can we talk about the rest of the infrastructure? Say they don't actually have classrooms, that they only have two small rooms, and in the computer room, according to reports from students themselves, the computers there are for flying? Say there's no amphitheatre and they're doing their homework at the Dumoe Cinema, which the municipality grants him, that there are no homes of course? There's no other kind of student care. If that's possible! Can there be a university school in any city, we say, not only in the Dymotich, that we are asking for all the departments, for all the schools - without student infrastructure, the right and, of course, adequate training staff, so that children and their families can spend as little as possible? Well, none of this can be done. We would like to make a commitment here, if you can - because we know that there are many students attending - for the winter semester of these children, who are anxiously watching days pass and, unfortunately, do not solve their problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u7	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u8	Mr Delis, as I said in my protology, since July, we have been responsible for the country's governance and for the responsibility for the proper functioning of each university department. In spite of the difficult situation that we found before us, with all these bills and the restructuring of the academic map made by the previous government, precisely because we had not been informed by the administration of the IPAEA, we contacted the Department of Nursing itself to see how the problems will be dealt with and immediately. The direct treatment included two things: on the one hand, temporary staff, which we increased to six hundred forty-seven places from four hundred sixteen last year in Greece and, on the other, in contact with the department and with the Medicine in Alexandroupolis to see how it will be supported so that students do not lose their six months. First of all, I would like to say that, as far as the first year is concerned, the students who entered this year are covered by 90%. There are problems over the longer years, which, in cooperation with the Department of Nursing and with Democrat Medicine, I think we will cover them. But I wanted to refer to the permanent solution. Restructured the university charter, as we have repeatedly stressed, must be carried out in cooperation with the independent authorities. We have said and said constantly that there must be assessments, there must be feasibility studies when parts are to be set up. I will take the opportunity from something they had said at the Nurse Department of Nursing, which proposes the transfer of the annex of Nursing, as a Department to the School of Health Sciences of the Democrat University, and therefore there will be synergies officially and consistently with Democritus Medical, but also geographically the logic would be the Dumotich Nursing School to join the Democritus University. This is not a Minister's decision. Taking the opportunity from the proposal of the Department of Nursing, the next step is to take into account the IPB, to give an opinion to the IPB and, if the opinion of the universities involved, the International and Demography Department is in agreement, to proceed with the inclusion of Nursing in Demography, which will also provide a permanent solution to the problems of the department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too, Minister. We will now move on to the third with number 197/11-11-2019, a topical question by MP Thesprotia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Marios Katsis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Suspension of the operation of a Department of Translation and Interpretation of the University of Ioannina based in Igoumenitsa". Mr. Comrade, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Undersecretary, I'm going straight to the point. It concerns your decision to suspend the operation of the thirty-seven sections, including the Translation and Interpretation Department of the University of Ioannina, based in Igoumenitsa, which has raised a storm of reactions throughout the local society. Minister, with Law 4559/2018-in the summer of 2018, the Translation and Interpretation Department of the University of Ioannina, based in Igoumenitsa, was founded. Four LAG members of the previous department, the Operations Department of the former TEI Epirus, went to the new Department of Translation and Interpretation in Igoumenitsa because they had related subject matter. Also, the state did not leave the air operation of the department, because guarantees were given, forty-eight Ioannina members were assigned to the University of Ioannina in order to prioritise the non-powerful departments, as is the Department of Translation and Interpretation in Igoumenitsa, but additional 100 million were given to the budget of the University of Ioannina, in order for these new departments to function. It was also given a time commitment for the academic year 2021-2022, as defined by Law 4559, to operate the department after respecting the self-employed of universities and asks the Senate for a year before the operation, until April 30, 2020, to make a decision on the functioning of the department. Was that rough and based on non- academic criteria? No, it wasn't, because the decision to set up the Translation and Interpretation Division is unanimous of both departments, and of the University of Ioannina and the former TEI Epirus. This is evidenced by the statements and positions of the Republican authorities during the debate of the bill in the summer of 2018 in the Parliament. She was in favor. The only ones who were during the establishment of the department were New Democracy and the Change Movement. You know, Mr. Undersecretary, what's the end point? That because after the abolition of the Law School of Patras we were put to the ears, I asked you a question in September 2019 and I asked you what you intend to do as a Ministry for the functioning of the established Department of Translation and Interpretation. And what did you say, Minister, 3-10-19? That the law is in force and you didn't mention anywhere or intention of dismantling or suspending operation. But what did you do a month later? Without the ink of your reply, you announced the suspension of operation and indeed without asking anyone, Mr Secretary, and without respecting the institutions' self-interest. You manage this, twenty-five years later, Thesprotia is not on the map of higher education. You also met with the New Democracy Government MP one day before you announced the suspension. In fact, you have found nothing in the local society about what you intend to do about the operation and how you will ensure it. On the contrary, you thought about how to share the "eye" of the University of Ioannina and its assets with the use of the brick student's home from the responsibility of your own former governments. Mr. Undersecretary, we need clean answers. We want and we ask you to take a straightforward answer as to whether you intend and how to commit to the people of Europe that the Translation and Interpretation Division will function as laid down in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u11	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Katsis, I would like, before going to the specifics of your questions, to say that our decision to suspend and review the start of the training of thirty-seven departments does not mean that the thirty-seven departments are being abolished. I should like to say that what is being suspended is the start of the training courses in these new departments, and we have done so without considering the political costs and, as you know, and the New Democracy has MPs in prefectures in which these departments are based. I say this to show how differently we think and understand education and in general education in the country and especially in higher education. We remain stable in our values and positions, far from micro-political and voter-making purposes. We do so with full responsibility and we respect Greek citizens. We want to ensure a high level of study in our students and not study without the necessary resources and appropriate conditions. There should be no one here in the Chamber who would care about the qualifications of study without a reflection. You referred to your prototype in forty-eight LPIS positions. Let me inform you that a teacher's recruitment process is time-consuming. Once the position is announced, it may be two to three years. It doesn't solve immediate needs. You also referred to a sum of 100 million. Let me inform you that 100 million is the total ordinary budget of universities. So there is no such number as for the University of Ioannina. So, as in opposition, it was not a question of a sterile opposition, we continue to be clearly opposed to the way in which the previous Minister of Education changed the academic map of higher education, with four bills within a year - and the last one in May - all handy, without single academic rules on the basis of micropolitical balances and, in general, academic folkism. The result was the desirability of developing the academic map without specific academic criteria, without prioritising the required sustainability and feasibility studies, without strategic planning and, above all, without the opinion of the Independent Authority, the IPQ. We, unlike SYRIZA, believe in the role of the IPI, as we generally believe in the role of the independent authorities as an institutional counterweight. Our aim is to examine the need for the creation and planning of the new departments as a whole by the IPPC on the basis of academic criteria. I would remind you that the SYRIZA was founded even with last-minute parliamentary amendments and, more generally, that the Scientific Committee of Parliament also expressed all these drafts of objections and objections. As regards specifically, in particular, the Department of Translation and Interpretation of the School of Social Sciences of the University of Ioannina in Igoumenitsa, there is obviously no intention of a decision being repealed. Our only intention is that, like the rest of the sections, there should be the correct and foreseeable procedures to determine the readiness and usefulness of the work of the new departments and of the curricula. I would like to reiterate that our education needs the creation of a long-term policy and strategy on the basis of broader consensus and a longer term than the mandate of the respective political leadership of the Ministry of Education. This can only be achieved through strengthening institutions and consistent compliance with procedures.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u13	Thank you. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u14	Minister, I do not have the supervisory image as Members of the Thesprotia Parliament for all higher education. I shall, however, speak to you about the Translation and Interpretation Division, just as I do in the question and give you the details. You mentioned, Minister, the fact that there have been no academic and sustainability criteria for these departments to function. As I explained in my protology, there are already conditions for the Translation and Interpretation Department. There are logistics, as there are study areas, restaurant and rooms. Based on the minimum required by law, i.e. the eight LPIS members, there are already the four LPIS members and what remains is to be announced for the remaining four. That's why it didn't work from the first cycle, because it had to be self-powered. So the declarations of positions were given forty-eight seats so that the four of them would be allocated to the Translation and Interpretation Division. But, Minister, you said about the opinion of the EPP. The Operations Department of the former TEI Epirus, due to the catastrophic "ATHENA", was a merger of two departments, of the Foreign Language Department and of the Department of Tourism. Do you know how it was renamed? Business Administration Department with foreignlanguage teachers. So, then, the Epirus TEI asked a question and the Ministry's leadership then addressed the ADI, 20-2-2017, and asked it what to do in order to satisfy the request of the then Department of Business Administration to make foreign languages an introductory direction to the Department of Business. Do you know what the HPD said? He replied, as due by law, on 27-3-2017. I read you on record, Minister, because the paper I will present to you in the Minutes is very critical and I do not even know whether it is in your mind. It says, therefore, that the IPPC states: "It formulates a unanimous positive opinion..." - unanimously decided that the IPPO "... under the exclusive condition..." - says yes, in the TEI's request for an introductory direction in foreign languages - "that all other introductory directions will be abolished, as the new proposed introductory direction, applied foreign languages to administration and the economy, is the only one that can be cured by academic criteria in this section". Do you know what IPD says, Minister, you who swear to the independent authorities? That the 2013 obscured project and destructive project “ATHENA”, which merged a section, in the package of one made a section “Frankenstein”, can only be cured by the creation of a new section. Do you know what our government did in August 2018, Minister? This is what he did: He created a new section on the basis of the cognitive object of the LAG members, but also of students who were introduced before the catastrophic project "ATHENA". In addition, Minister, I have to inform you that since the PPP's opinion was taken into account and respected, this is not a completely dismantled matter from the academic community. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because I told you again that the decision of two institutions, of the Epirus TEI and of the University of Ioannina, to set up the Department is unanimous.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u15	Mr Colleague, you've taken too much from your dentistry as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u16	I shall conclude, Madam President. Obviously, of the thirty-seven sections that you intend to suspend, at least one, the Translation and Interpretation Division, which I know from the outside and beyond, meets all the specifications and conditions for operating. So I call on you, Minister, to do so. Otherwise, if you don't like it, let us know at the end of the four-year period whether it's on the academic map and with which department. You have an absolute responsibility. I submit the relevant documents for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Katsis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Colleague, may I? By way of derogation, you have taken too much time and in relation to your previous colleague. You requested to take from your dentistry and double the time in your dentistry. I don't think that's right. I think so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u18	And the Minister has exceeded his time. That is why, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u19	Please very much. I begged you at first. You know I'm quite elastic when we have time. But because the Minister has to leave, I begged you this. Here, Minister, you have the floor and I ask you to be in your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u20	I think that the time has not been exceeded, and in protagonists too, so I will be brief. You know, my colleague, our concern and focus is the student. The IPP - you're wrong - did not give an opinion on the merger project of the two institutions, the absorption of the TEI from the University of Ioannina. What do we have in this case? We have students from the Management Teacher from a Department of Business, who are part of a Department of Translation and Interpretation. The criterion should not be which teachers had a department. The criterion must be what students are studying and where tensions are taking them. If you don't know that, because you probably don't know, I can inform you that the students of the former Business Administration Teaching have important issues that have arisen in their applications for postgraduate studies, during their applications for practical training and generally in their contacts with prospective employers, because while they had studied Business Administration, they get a diploma from a Department of Translation and Interpretation. And not just that, Mr. Katsey. As a SYRIZA MEP, you know, in the bills you passed, it was for the students of the TEIs, who are part of university departments that they can either complete their studies at the TEI either then complete them and get the TEI's degree or choose to take additional courses from the University Department and get a university degree for everything, for all but a few and the part we are discussing. In your specific law, therefore, in Article 5(1), it expressly states that the students of the Department of Business are automatically integrated into the Translation and Interpretation Department, but only complete their studies in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2. In other words, they do not fall within the provisions of paragraph 5 of that article which permits undergraduate students who are successfully examined in the required courses and who have not exceeded six months, to apply and to take further courses of the respective department of the university in order to obtain a university degree. This is another example of the way you legislated, of curiosity and of disparity and the consequences of students paying them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Minister. Now we will discuss the first question by number 226/18-11-2019, first question by the MP of Heraklion, of the Radical Left, Mr. Nikolaos Igoumenides, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Integration of Knossos into the list of monuments of global cultural heritage". The question will be answered by the Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr Lina Mendoni. Mr Colleague, please be in your time, because the Minister has to leave for China and has no time. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, as you know very well, since 1981, our country has signed the UNESCO Treaty on the protection of monuments and sites of global heritage. Eighteen individual monuments or archaeological sets have been joined so far. Since January 2019, the Ministry of Culture officially submitted to UNESCO the nomination file of Spinalonga, and then the discussion on the preparation of the candidacy for the inclusion of the Palace of Knossos was launched, along with other important palace centers of Minoan Crete in the monuments of the global heritage of UNESCO. We are talking about the largest and most powerful palace of Minoan culture, which sealed the prehistoric era in the Aegean Sea. First of all, I would like to ask where this preparation for the Knossos dossier lies. The second relevant point is whether we will move on, if you are going to move forward, in what we call "serial registration", i.e. the integration of the remaining monuments of the Minoan period, i.e. Phaistos, Mali, the Palace of Zakros, the palace centre in Zominthos and ancient Kydononia, that is to say, if these are gradually to be included in the monuments of the world heritage and if there is a timetable for depositing the file on the candidacy of Knossos. I shall conclude, Minister. Since it was discussed that today we are going to discuss this matter, I have received a number of questions to my office. So I ask you, if you can let me know - I know, of course, that it is outside the issue that we are discussing today - where is Spinalonga's candidacy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr Papoutsis, for the question, because that is why we are given the opportunity to discuss this issue again. As I am sure you know, the palace and the wider archaeological site of Knossos were included in the indicative list of monuments of our country's world heritage in 2003, following a fairly complex procedure, because they had to give their opinions in addition to the Ministry of Culture, the Foreign Ministry, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Agriculture within the framework of various interministerial committees and on the occasion of the review of the list. In the context of this revision of the indicative list in 2014 and in order to represent more fully the top monuments of Minoan culture, it was decided to transform Knossos's nomination into a serial one, in order to represent the major palace centers, Knossos, Phaistos, Malia, Zakros and Kydonia. That is precisely what I said, and beyond the eminent universal importance and value of these sites, in order to make the greater representation of this extremely important culture, of the Minoan. What I wanted to remind you is that this serial candidacy of the four palaces was included in the indicative list on January 16, 2014. And only in 2017, the necessary steps were launched to draw up the application file through the conclusion of a programme contract between the Ministry of Culture and the Region of Crete. In 2018, the relevant amount was approved by the region. And finally on 24 April 2019, a programme contract was signed entitled ‘Special studies of the special development programme ‘Crete-Green Development’ with a body implementing the Directorate for Prehistoric and Classical Antiquities and a budget of EUR 140,000’. In the previous palaces, Zominth has been added precisely because of the very important findings. Unfortunately, when the programming contract was signed, it has not been taken into account the institutional framework established since 2015 in the framework of the Joint Ministerial Decision: ‘Agreements on the payment of the expenditure of the Public Investment Programme’. This was precisely because it had not been properly assessed. It has led to an involvement which has resulted in the elections not to an invitation to the recruitment of the staff provided for in the programming contract and, more generally, in the agreement of the Ministry of Culture with the Region of Crete. I would like to tell you here that programming in general has already been quite outdated. It could well not be necessary for the recruitment of staff or the recruitment of staff, if necessary, to be treated through the Ministry of Culture. This has not been done, so we have been too late. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. At the moment, we are in a phase of dismantling the process just as I have told you, so that the Ministry of Culture can allocate the funds for the recruitment of staff and the money of the programming contract to go to more general topics such as topography and other documentation. This is therefore being dismantled. I want to believe that within the next year and a half - unfortunately it cannot be done sooner - the Central and Regional Archaeological Office will be able to lodge the application file. For the Spinalonga you asked me, I will tell you that last week it was supported by a special step by the Ministry of Culture and under the leadership of our Ambassador to UNESCO, the performance before ICOMOS for Spinalonga, because that is within the planned range, in order to continue the evaluation of the dossier.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Minister, for your answer. If I understand correctly, the Knossos file is actually under way and beyond the various problems we have had. I am particularly pleased that the submission of the Spinalonga dossier has also proceeded with the process of joining Spinalonga. I would just like to say that because the conditions set by UNESCO are known to incorporate a monument into the treasures of the world cultural heritage, and since you are planning precisely the serial registration of the remaining palace treasures of Minoan culture in Crete, I believe that it is not very small when the human factor, human intervention and intervention are barbarically canceling these conditions for the inclusion of a monument. I therefore believe that the Ministry should, in cooperation with local government, see exactly whether all these monuments fulfil the conditions. You mentioned this, and it is well known how the Region of Crete strengthens this effort. I believe that this matter is of the same importance as the drafting of the dossier in order to have the fullest preparation of the candidacy and the successful outcome of this candidacy, in order to integrate Knossos and Minoan Palace into the treasures of the world cultural heritage. I believe that the Ministry should also see this side for all these palace centers of Minoan culture in Crete. Thank you very much. I was consistent in time, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u27	More than conscientious, Mr President. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, as you know, in order to support a candidacy, very specific parameters are required. The first is the one to which you and I have referred, which is the outstanding universal value of the cultural good. The second is to ensure its authenticity and integrity. The third is comparative analysis in relation to similar cultural goods. The fourth is the clear delimitation of the monument and its protection zone. The fifth is the existence of an integrated management plan and guarantees for its effective implementation. The sixth is the recording of factors which affect or may adversely affect the cultural good. The seventh is to take measures to protect the monument in emergencies and manage risks in general. These are the necessary elements in the file. You are absolutely right and the Ministry of Culture has already shown over at least the last decade that it is working closely with local government and not only with regional government, but also with municipalities. The files of at least the last candidates have been drawn up with the ultimate cooperation of the first and second degrees of self-government and the Ministry, and this is the case. What forced us - in and out of introductory terms, the word "necessarily" - to resort to a serial registration of the palaces and not only in Knossos, is what you implied, if I understood correctly, that there were issues at times which created problems in the protection and image of the archaeological site in Knossos. That is why, in order to overcome this, we went to the serial registration, regardless of whether the serial registration can ultimately work overwhelmingly in favour of the emergence of Minoan culture, because what proves is that we do not have a Knossos only in Crete, but we have very important and serious palaces that have produced the culture we all admire. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Minister. We will continue with our second question under number 234/19-11-2019, first-round question by MP B2 West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "An unjustified revocation of a ministerial decision to classify the PYRKAL industrial complex". Mr Styliani Mendoni will reply to the current question by the Minister for Culture and Sport. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, we haven't seen you in the Chamber in a while. We welcome you. Many previous topical questions remained unanswered. They'll all be reassigned, though. You know very well that although I have disagreed with you in relation to your decisions, I appreciate you as a very competent woman who really knows the matters of the Ministry and can perform miracles. The reason why I ask you this timely question is because I believe that in this particular case you are going to do exactly the same thing backwards. No miracles. Not at all. We had a decision by the previous administration to protect this site, the historic site and the buildings of PYRKAL and by suggestion from your services. You said at first that you refer this back, because there was no ministerial decision. I tabled the ministerial decision in the Minutes of this House. Now you're telling us there are objections, and that's why you're coming back. You mentioned in your interview with Mr. Portugal to "SKAI" that "ELLENIKA PETPELEY" and some others raised objections. We wonder who they are. I've also applied for documents. I'd like you to tell us if you'll send us these documents. The question is: Because someone objects to a decision, do you refer the matter back to the Central Council? As far as I know, the objections are avenged during the debate on the Central Council. If the new central council that you appointed decides against proclamation of the site, then if citizens object, will you bring it back again? Is that the procedure to be followed? I will submit to the minutes the interview that the ELPE official gave to the newspaper "THE VIMA", which says that this area had been purchased as a protection zone, a safety zone and not for some other use. So declaring that this site we are currently discussing is in line with the use that has been made of the market. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty one students and students and four teachers from the Second General School of Kiatos. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr Arsenis, for giving me the opportunity to look a little more clearly at this issue and of course thank you for your very good words. In this case, however, I do not think there is any real disagreement and I will tell you why. As I am sure you are aware, with regard to PYRKAL and this complex, the Central Council of Modern Monuments gave an opinion on the designation as a historic place and on the declaration as monuments of the hundred thirty-seven buildings of PYRKAL, following requests from the Citizens Movement ECOELEUSIS in January 2018 and MONUMENTA in August 2018. Meanwhile, the band had been sold in May 2017. I'm saying it just to remember the dates a little bit. Since January and August 2018, when these moves requested the designation, we have come to the first meeting of the Central Council of New Monuments on 6-2019. I would like to ask myself: if there is interest in a band, why should there be so many months from the request until the first introduction of the matter into the Council? Then the process was postponed in order to make the autopsy. The autopsy took place on 12 June and the Council reviewed the matter at its meeting on 27 June and delivered an opinion in favour of the proclamation of the historic site and newer monuments. Since 27 June, the decision was sent to the National Printing Office on 5 July, i.e. two days before the elections, when any Minister is sure that since Friday at noon he will not be able to publish it. Therefore, the whole process, which lasts a year, could even be characterised as a pretext. What I did say in the interview was that the act had not been signed. In fact, what I had to say and it was a mistake of the oral word was that the act had not been completed. Because the act of a designation is completed only by the publication in the Official Journal of the Government. The procedure was therefore a waste. After the election, the owner objects. The owner's objection must be considered. So it's a waste process and there's an objection. And this is not a referral back, because the action has not been taken to refer it back. Therefore, if we did not request a new opinion from the Council, the decision, which would have been adopted and published in the EEK, would automatically be manifestly insulting to the Council of State. Therefore, the new Council opinion does nothing more than strengthen the ministerial decision and restrict any objections and doubts.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. What I do not understand and I would like you to answer us in your dentext is whether your position is in favour of proclaiming. Because with the presentation you have made, you really think that it was a bad thing to do, so this decision should be taken quickly, and you seem to think that the declaration has not been done so far. So I would like your own placement. We have the Central Council of New Monuments, which has delivered opinions and said that PYRKAL's property is an important presumption of the industrial history of Greece and a reference point for the city of Elefsina, that this area played an important role in the development of the region, that the company's offer to the defensive armour of Greece is important. It is also important that a number of employees worked in the company over an eighty-eight-year period. I don't think that's gonna change that description. So what's your position? This is very crucial because, for example, we know what the municipality's position is, which came out with a recent resolution of the municipal council and said that there is no need to refer the central council to a new opinion, since the existing one is strong, legal and scientifically substantiated, that the opinion is in line with the general desire of local society and scientific bodies and urges the Minister to adopt the decision on the basis of the opinion currently in force and its publication in the FEK. Because you mentioned the risk of resorting to the Council of State, I would like to say that the majority council decides - as far as I know the majority is in Communism, the Government - and in the event of a decision other than the Central Council, to take all legal steps to defend the interests of the city, as they relate to and stem from its decision. So, if you are afraid that they will appeal to the Council of State, that will come about if the decision of the Central Council is overturned. And it will be overturned, and again I remind you, because there is a political part. It will be overturned by a new council, which you have appointed, and that is of particular importance. Since you are really interested in protecting the place, state it and do not refer it back to the Central Council. You make a separate decision, yours, based on the decision that exists from the Central Council of New Monuments, which is strong and recent. Otherwise, it seems to be changing the composition of the boards depending on the governments and taking different decisions on a political criterion. That's not possible. I mean, the last decision the board made to overturn from the first one to make the next board. I think that's a burning matter for the city. And it burns, among other things, for security reasons, because there will be an extension of the ELPEs with their new property after privatization, closer to the town of Elefsina, without any security zone anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u36	First of all, I do not understand why you prejudge the decision of the Central Council of New Monuments. Because you really prejudge her. The Council - and one Central Council and the other - at any time is obviously appointed by the respective government and the Minister for Culture. However, in all periods they are made up of people who are respected for their scientific authority. Therefore, saying or implying that the members of the board, which are fifteen - are not one or two - will be influenced by the Minister of Culture, I consider it to be devalued for the members of the board and for their scientific validity and gravity. I think you have no intention of doing this. It's just that your desire is such that it lures you into a hint that would be insulting to the members of the board. The second point I would like to make is that in the Council of State, anyone who considers that he has a legitimate interest. It may be a citizen, it may be the owner in this case, it may be a club, anyone. What we as an administration have to do is limit the chances of the execution of the act, which is the decision of the Minister of Culture. We will achieve this if we try to answer questions and objections which are raised after the opinion has been delivered - because the Council does not decide, the Minister for Culture decides - the Central Council of Modern Monuments. It is obvious that everyone has his arguments. I fully respect the opinion of the municipal council. He has every reason to defend what his city wants. On the other hand, however, there are others who disagree either with the designation as a historic place, or with the preservation of monuments, or with both. So what we have to do as an administration is to limit the possibility of appeals. That is what we are doing, I said earlier that we are seeking to rethink the issues and the new data that have been put forward. Because you told me what my personal position is, I do not know if I have the right as Minister of Culture even to be in this House to what my personal position is, because this position will affect the Council before it delivers its opinion. If, then, we believe in the objectivity of the Council, I must not testify to my personal opinion. However, what I have to say to you and I can tell you is that once this complex or some other specific architects need protection, you can be sure that the Central Council of Modern Monuments and the administration will do what archaeological law imposes will protect them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, too, Minister. We continue with our second question with number 194/11-11-2019 on the second question of the Athens Parliamentary I of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christoforou Vernardakis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Exploistic sues against officials of the Ministry of Culture and Sport (YOY)" of members of the committee for monitoring and receiving sub-projects of movable monuments, by a lower contractor". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, first of all a good trip and a good success in the mission to China. Thank you for being here, because I think that we are dealing with a fairly serious issue, which is the event - at some point, it is certain - of a pathetic nature that perpetuates Greek public years and concerns the awarding of information systems and digital applications. I refer to the sub-project "Development of Applications" of the project "Enrichism of Digital Collections of Mobile Monuments of the Ministry of Culture and the Development of an Information System of the National Monuments Archive". What's going on here? We have an assignment to a contractor. This contractor has a work which has been cancerd for many years and has continuous extensions of the contract. We have, however, breached the terms of the contract, the time and the other terms of the contract. Thus, at some point the Monitoring Committee is well-documented to recommend to the then Minister that the contractor is out of time, out of contract terms, and also suggests - be careful - the contractor's discount from this project after many years. But we have an act of execution of the administration signed by the then Minister for Culture. The company appeals to the administrative courts and loses that appeal. Several years later, that is, one year after what has happened since the committee's recommendation, it sues civil servants, two civil servants and one employee of the Archaeological Resources Fund. He's appealing against them, filing charges. As you can see, this is where a serious precedent arises in the functioning of public procurement and public monitoring committees. The question has two legs. First, if the Ministry intends, or has already done, to protect its employees, either by legal support, either by a decision of the Legal Board of State, or by taking the legal cover. One part is that. The second part is what will happen with the project. It is still a serious task for the country's cultural heritage and national archives. We therefore need to see how it will continue, irrespective of the conditions for the application of the assumption contract that existed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u39	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr Bernardakis, for the question. I would like, if I may, to begin answering in reverse order, namely from the importance of the project and then from the point of view of the officials and their criminal treatment. The project "Enrichism of Digital Monuments Collections of the Ministry of Culture and Information System Development of the National Monuments Archive" started in 2012. At that time, as Secretary-General, I fully supported the implementation of this project and the guarantee of its funding, because I think - and I still consider it - that it is a project of national importance and I would say national necessity. Because the comprehensive knowledge and imprint of the country's archaeological wealth in digital form primarily contributes to the preservation and enhancement of its own cultural heritage, to the prevention of archaeological café and to the facilitation of the discovery and return of stolen antiquities and illegally eradicated antiquities, to the support of scientific research, to the strengthening of education and to the public's contact with our cultural heritage. I therefore supported and continue to support this project and we are trying to remove it from various arrhythmias, to which it has fallen. I do not want to dwell on the recurring and uncertainties of the previous period, nor on the obstacles and delays caused by the previous political leadership. I don't live in it at all, but it's a reality. But let's go to employee issues. As you know, monthly reports are not submitted to the administration, but to the prosecutors and the police. Criminal liability is always personal and is only recorded by the organs for the award of criminal justice, which should be left unreservedly unaffected. I'm telling you, I have complete confidence in justice. The best protection shield for the civil servant is, therefore, respect for the lawfulness. Officials who observe the law have nothing to fear, no matter how much they are filed. I would stress, and you may know, that what I am interested in is in defending the public interest and, of course, in protecting employees who act legally. But you talked about intimidation. It's probably a form of intimidation that's happened. But let me also remind you of another intimidation that occurred in the same body of civil servants, primarily with disciplinary charges ordered against representatives of the Ministry of Culture from the political leadership that came up and, in fact, very few days before the national elections. And that's a kind of intimidation. I think we should put an end to this as well. Exercise of disciplinary jurisdiction requires care and restraint, requires solid prior documentation, personalisation of disciplinary categories and sufficient evidence to the detriment of the defendants. Otherwise, it is diverted - to use your words - into a mechanism of intimidation and riding.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u42	I think you have suffered a serious political slip here, because you are confusing a case that started, obviously you're talking about the Solidarity Fund and the persecuting of felony...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u43	I'm talking about digitals, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u44	That's what I understood, though. This case was initiated by an inquiry by the General Accounting Office of the State and the Financial Control Agency, and which is currently without the intervention of a private person - because we have a different case here - it took the course of justice and, indeed, with very heavy misdemeanours. This, of course, will be judged by justice. But here we have something else. Here we have a intimidation that, if legalised, changes all the geography, if you like, of the application of the Public Service Law and Disciplinary Law. We have a private lawsuit in the Monitoring and Receipt Committee, when it is documented, and obviously documentes this, because it does not do so because it likes it - the political leadership. Think about it backwards. Wouldn't that be a breach of duty for them if they didn't? Would it not be complicated with the private sector and the bad private sector? What would we tell them in this case? Be careful, because this case opens a ferry door to the public when it comes to relations between public and private companies. Because if every individual can sue such a person in the Monitoring Committees of all the public works, then it is understandable and clear that we will reach a point in the public service that no one ever wants to participate in any monitoring and delivery committee. I would remind you that this complaint has perhaps not been understood - it is after the rejection of the individual's appeal to the administrative courts. And watch the difference here. It is not possible against the execution of an administrative act by the Minister - the Minister in this regard - at that time - but against the officials who are being proposed. This, as you can see, overturns all the geography of the legal actions that we must have in relation to the implementation of public procurement. It opens up a huge issue and I would really like the position of the leadership of the Ministry of Culture against this persecution. Do you think this prosecution is well exercised? You, as political leadership, are a follow-up, at the bottom, of the state and a follow-up to the implementation of executions of administrative acts. Do you agree with this policy, which, if it goes on, will create another situation in the public sector?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u46	First of all, you have taken the wrong view that I am referring to the Solidarity Fund and the relevant persecutions. They've taken their way. You are simply making me say that you have nothing more to say or remember and you are constantly repeating the Solidarity Fund. This is a matter of your interpretation. I didn't mean that at all. I meant disciplinary proceedings - and not criminals - which were conducted a few days before the elections on similar topics from the previous political leadership. And that has nothing to do with the Solidarity Fund. I'm glad that's all you're saying. You repeat it all the time. Mr. Bernardakis, no one enjoys immunity. The law must apply to everyone. I have complete confidence in justice. And I trust the civil servants that they implement the law. And since they apply the law - and these people, since they have implemented the law - they have nothing to fear. Since this is unjust or any public official is wrongly accused, I am sure this will appear in justice. Then the messenger will be found himself for false suppression. Obviously, we are interested in public officials not to be affected by private individuals or by the state itself, but by the time they apply the law. And I repeat it for the third time: if these people have implemented the law and were recommended under the existing legislation to the political leadership, and the political leadership has taken the decision it has taken, I think we have no reason to worry about them unless we think justice will not do its job properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, too, Minister. Have a good trip. Thank you very much for your understanding. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Andreas Koutsoubas is seeking permission from a short-day absence abroad from 29 November 2019 to 2 December 2019. The Member, Mr Ioannis Ragussa, also requests a short-day absence abroad from 29 November 2019 until 2 December 2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u48	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We move on to the discussion of the fourth question under number 201/11-11-2019 of the second-round question of MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Catherine Notopoulou to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: 'Delay in implementing pre-nomination protection measures for workers affected by the collapse of the company 'THOMAS COOK'. My colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, on September 28, after numerous meetings in the government's form, and since you yourself admitted that you had been fully informed by the company "THOMAS COOK" of its poor financial situation, you take out your Ministry's announcement, a press release and announce the support measures of companies affected by the bankruptcy of the group. You are talking about a reduction in the number of words needed to pay the unemployment benefit from a hundred to eighty. Today we have 25 November. You brought it a few days ago into legislation, which you refer again to a later joint ministerial decision. Has it been issued? I think not. So it hasn't happened. The OAED will draw up - you say - and activate a specific support programme for jobs so that the affected companies do not fire workers. You did, but it didn't happen. There is a decision to this effect from what I know - and I have asked you before - by the OAS's Board of Directors. The relevant Joint Ministerial Decision has not been signed. You said that the deadline for payment of VAT is only suspended for six months. We have also pointed out to you that this does not help, because it has not been possible to get liquidity in order to deliver it. You haven't changed it. You said that the simplification of the risk-requirement discount procedure for invoices by the company ‘THOMAS COOK’ is being considered. You did, but it hasn't happened yet. On the basis of the above, on the basis of the budget you are bringing, on the basis of the parallel press releases that we both have exchanged, we would expect that, in addition to press releases and replies to us, you will reply to us today, at least for the last time, with a clear, concrete timetable for implementing the measures you have announced. Obviously it's not all your responsibility, but it's not the world of tourism if your government's final shape is not working. You should also inform us of what actions you have taken, in relation to the European Parliament and the other European institutions, in order to strengthen our country and your Government in this direction, given the resolution taken by the European Parliament. As far as we know you haven't moved. On the contrary, some other countries have moved, like Spain. Helena Koutura has already tabled two questions. The European Parliament's resolution also presided over this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank you for your question, which is a step in the right direction. It is not general, such as the general criticism you have made so far and which is obviously not able to convince the Greek people. That is why you are doing well and you have moved on to much more specific questions. You are returning to some part of this barren criticism. I'll get over it. I have no reason to stand on this. To congratulate you, at least, on the fact that this criticism, the questions you are asking will be at least useful to us in order to respond to the Greek people, but also to the companies that have been affected. Your criticism was unsatisfactory, because the Greek people already know that from the beginning we have been above the problem with the business centre. He knows that the first measures were taken from day one, such as the non-payment of the residence tax. He knows that measures were taken by two legislative acts which, in fact, came and voted on in the past few days. You also spoke in this process. I spoke, too. And we know very well that your criticism until then was because the measures were not taken. At least, you recognize in this question that the act of legislation has made progress in implementing the first leg, which was legislative, in order for the joint ministerial decision to come out, in order to activate the eighty signals instead of a hundred and one month above unemployment benefit. Now, what are the next steps? This is what is more important for the Greek people to listen to us and especially for workers and businesses, who are in the industry. The OAED did meet in October. Unfortunately, his service data did not convince the board of directors. It wasn't ready for the board of directors to make a decision. The decision on this programme was only taken on 12 November 2019 and was sent for appropriate signatures to the Ministry of Labour. I therefore also spoke to the Minister for Labour. In the next two weeks the services will have completed this request, they will have examined it and signed it. The amount of the programme to support workers will be 30 million, a very important sum which will be for this year, the end of the year, and for the year - the main part of the programme - but also for 2021. It will be for the 100% of employers' contributions up to EUR 500 for the workers of enterprises affected by the 'Thomas COOK' issue. I come to the second part of the question, in relation to Europeans, and I will come back - if you like - with a small overall position. As far as European issues are concerned, at the very first time we talked to the European Commission, to see if there is any possibility of support and what else can be done, so that there can be better support for the workers and for the businesses affected by 'Thomas COOK'. On 24 October, as you said, the European Parliament adopted a resolution and noted the need for better protection of consumers and workers from bankruptcy like that of 'THOMAS COOK' and the need to use European tools to support businesses from such bankruptcy events. The Competitiveness and Development Working Party and the Ministry, which took part in this meeting, met on the same day, reaffirmed the need for funding and access to the funding of small and medium-sized tourism enterprises, a need that - and here I want to be fair - has been expressed by the previous political leadership in all the relevant discussions. It is a need that we will support at all stages of the debate in relation to the financial programme of 2021-2027. In order to be able, in the wake of the European Parliament's initiative, to act, the European Commission's parliaments, to hold a meeting on 7-11-2019 with the delegation of the European Commission in Greece, in which we discussed the possibilities for support that exist. I personally contacted the Vice-President of the Commission, Mr Margaret Schroedna, who personally guided us about how these funds can be activated. The crucial thing in this process - because our intention is not to make requests simply to be rejected - so that we can have a positive chance of bringing forward our request is to cost the full cost of the impact so that we can provide concrete evidence and give concrete money from these funds. Our services are in the process of costing. The actions that we have also taken in relation to liquidity and in relation to this OAS programme help to cost costs. As you can see, they must not just gather the evidence, but also be properly documented. But in the next few days we will have completed this process and we will make the appropriate requests. I conclude by saying that we have discussed the issue of TOMAS COOK, and I understand - if you like - a little of his grace in defending a policy to which you are not personally responsible. It is a policy pursued by a different political leadership, but we have also discussed it in committee. The phenomenon of "THOMAS COOK" is a phenomenon that has manned in the years of SYRIZA's governance. It is a phenomenon that was supported by EOT funds from the SYRIZA government, which took in 2015 from the EUR 400,000 in the connection with "THOMAS COOK" and reached 1.4 million in 2019, a program that was cancelled by us. In other words, along with the bankruptcy of 'THOMAS COOK', SYRIZA's tourism policy went bankrupt. You must finally understand this and stop moving the finger and tell us, while you have opened a hole in the boat, what style is and give us up for how we hold the bucket. This cannot go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, before I give you the three minutes you are entitled to for your dentistry, I wish you many years for your celebration today. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you for your effort not to respond once again. I say this because the fact that you constantly acknowledge, in every speech, how successful the SYRIZA government's tourism policy was with Minister Elena Koundoura, but also the results that he has brought, as recorded up to the elements of the Bank of Greece, I think he is an answer, especially since we have given you many suggestions that you could use for many times. We didn't just testify to you. I understand that by SYRIZA you have a difficulty accepting it, but it was also a request from all the bodies who heard it and during a hearing in the respective committee, but also the last time with the PPP. We have therefore chosen the activation of POL 1170 of 2015 on the loss of insecure claims. We have proposed and asked you to extend the criteria for re-establishing the one hundred twenty-dollar regulation, but also all other favourable provisions, such as Article 39b of the 2000 regulation. We asked you to increase the costs of the EOT for projection with a new strategic design, yours. We don't see it in the budget. We have asked you to intervene at European level with the weight of your position. We didn't hear that either. We have asked you to offset VAT paid by unresolved invoices with future VAT. We didn't see you do any of this. The resolution by the European Parliament which you yourself referred to, Mr Minister, comes out on 25 October and clearly says that it calls on the competent authorities, the Member States affected, to ensure that the recruits are paid in full to the redundant workers of 'THOMAS COOK'. I would like you to explain to us at the end of your reply how exactly you intend to do this, because you should not be able to locate. But you should actually find a genuine indignation. Tourism, because it is indeed a national case, is not offered for opposition. It is necessary, however, to demonstrate a dynamic from the political leadership that will protect the interests of Greek tourism. You so far have not just protected them, but you have risked the image of Greek tourism, lying to professionals in tourism and without implementing what you have said. I conclude by pointing out that I am pleased at what I have heard for the very next time - or as you said - but you have been saying this for two months in every press release and it has not been implemented until now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u55	Let's take things one by one. Let me start by putting something on a proper basis, in relation to what you said in your prototype, that Spain has submitted a request. Here I would like to put the question from the European Commission and Mrs Tisenen's reply in the Minutes, which says that this has not been submitted by Spain for the activation of funds yet. There is, of course, the possibility of doing so later. It is therefore not accurate. Sometimes, when we rely on journalistic information, this information is not so valid. In any case, I am simply saying this to put the matter on the right basis - I say again - and not to have the wrong impression. [[At this point, the Minister for Tourism, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Our country is not a pig in this process. He was the first to act on Monday of the bankruptcy of "THOMAS COOK". She was the first to take steps on Friday, right after this bankruptcy. You talked about success. That's exactly what I'm saying. The success you have had so far is the increase in mass tourism, which you have faithfully served. I've been telling you all along. It was followed by the previous leadership by a political increase in the number of tourists, through the enlargement of mass tourism, which comes from the tour operators, the "THOMAS COOK" and other tour operators - so that I don't break into a nomenclature - and you raised the problem. You handed us a problem that, when he broke out, was two and a half times - it was 256% actually - greater than it was when you came in 2015. This is a reality and you need to understand it. This policy has been bankrupt together with 'THOMAS COOK'. If the Bank of Greece's figures are the best answer or not, that would appear. The fact that we acted immediately and the fact that we supported, since the professionals in the sector have known from the first moment that the Government of Kyriak Mitsotakis is close to them and will be able to support them is why, in September, the figures are positive, with an increase in revenue of 16%, even in arrivals. But, again, how interested arrivals are. What is interesting is revenue, 16% increase in September, 14% increase in the nine months. With regard to the activation of POOL 1170 - not to say that we are not listening to your proposals - this activation is to the measures which, as we said, have been considering since the first time in our communication. However, this activation will play a role once the declarations of time are made. It is not a direct measure that is needed at the moment, in the middle of negotiations, in the middle of budgets, in the middle of negotiation procedures with the institutions, to be put in place. It doesn't affect anyone. It will affect the statements of the tourist businesses that will be made next year and therefore we have time to look into it, as will the Ministry of Finance. You're talking about an increase in spending. Indeed, since the first moment we came in cooperation with the Minister of Development and 10 million euros have been signed by the Minister of Development to go to the EOT so that the EOT's promotional programme can be strengthened for the following year. That's not all we did. We started the procedures now, so the advertising will continue at the end of the year. We have already started the display for Athens and Thessaloniki for the winter season to further strengthen the tourist movement in the difficult months of winter. However, the advertising of the year will also begin in January 2020, not like 2019, which started four weeks before the elections in June, effectively losing the first part of the season, which is all the prerogatives that are taking place. As you know, in the Scandinavian countries, in Germany, in northern Europe and in Great Britain, people operate mainly with prerogatives. So the year is gone. These are the reasons why the figures went back to the end of the year better because the procedures were speeded up. You proposed something last for VAT. I wonder, when Paul 1170 came out, why didn't you do it for the VAT? I'll tell you why you didn't. Because it can't be done. Because it has not been done before in the Greek legal system, there is no procedure at the moment, in which the netting of VAT with future obligations can be triggered. Like you, therefore, did not do so in the corresponding case, so it cannot be done in this case. What can be done - and, as I have said, the Ministry of Finance is looking into it - is to activate a corresponding POL like POL 1170 and that we will see in the next period when time is right for such decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-25-S1-commons.u57	With the consent of the House at 19.42' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 26 November 2019 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
