ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 25-2-2019 delegation, the minutes of its PLAC Sessions of Monday, 25 February 2019, with regard to the vote on all: (a) the proposal of the President of Parliament "To amend the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament - Part II (FEC 51A/104-1997) and Part Parliamentary Party (FEC 106A'24-26-87), as in force and (b) the proposal of the President of the Parliamentary Assembly on Parliament and Democracy", as well as the adoption of the Rules of Procedure of the Committee referred to in Article 3A of the Treaty. Regulation (EC) No 3213/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 October 2003 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the Community institutions and bodies and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data, and amending Regulations (EC) No 3213/2003 and (EC) No 3213/2003.]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only a discussion and a vote on the principle of Articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: ‘Company transformations and harmonisation of the legislative framework with the provisions of Directive 2014/55/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on electronic invoicing in the framework of public contracts and other provisions’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 25 February 2019 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, let me give you a briefing. I have measured the speaking time of the rapporteurs, the speakers, the parliamentary representatives and the Ministers, in a relative comfort, because there are many articles, and they are four hours. So these people logically around 14:00 to 14:30 are over. Depending on how many Members will be registered - I do not see many of them registered, two colleagues spoke to the committee - we will see whether we are going today in a reasonable time, or whether we are going, as we said yesterday, for a three-hour tomorrow. When the list closes, after the descent from Mr. Athanasios's Step, we'll see you again. Let's get started so we don't waste time. Please set up a system for the registration of colleagues. We have not had any amendments so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u2	We have two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u3	They're integrated. I mean, we don't have any new ones, Mr. Athanasios. Until we're done, I don't know what's gonna happen. The rapporteur for SYRIZA Mr Dimitris Dimitriadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development on corporate transformations and the harmonisation of our legislative framework with the provisions of Directive 55/2014 of the European Parliament and other provisions is the subject of today's debate in plenary. This bill is another link in a chain of initiatives taken by our Government, which is generally about company law, entrepreneurship and business activity in our country. It is another example - important we believe - of the government initiatives to improve the economic climate and modernise our business framework. There has been a satisfactory and in-depth debate on both sides of the bill, but above all on the question of transformations. What I have to note first of all about the bill is that it came from a process of committees and from a process of discussion with bodies and there is an in-depth positive approach to the draft law, which was also admitted during the hearing of the bodies. More specifically, with regard to this draft law, the producer bodies and the social partners not only generally accept the substance of this intervention, but at the same time recognise their own participation and contribution to this very legislative effort. Therefore, we can already say, safely, that we have an example of a proposed legislation, because the consultation process, which preceded it, incorporated most of the comments of the market and the business world into this initiative as far as possible. The proposed arrangements are part of the strategy for reforming and adapting our country's company law to European, which is constantly being consolidated. The radical reform of the institutional framework for setting up companies has taken precedence, with spectacular results regarding the time and cost of setting up a company. The amendment of the EIA Act has also taken precedence as a legislative initiative. After a hundred years the law changed toward the most positive for anonymous companies. It goes away - it is in the next legislative initiatives - of course the Law on the General Commercial Register and the supervision of companies that will come to Parliament very soon. In the field of final law, an integrated programming of actions, which is part of a wide-ranging development strategy, always unlike the recent past, where important reforms have been dehydrated, precisely because they have been implemented with failure and fragmentation. The primary objective, therefore, of this strategy is to reduce the private burdens borne by businesses, especially small ones. The cost of compliance with laws is a key source of such burdens. The simplification of procedures therefore strengthens productivity, but also competitiveness, since they will usually be exempt from trade burdens with public authorities, but will also achieve economies of scale with flexibility and completeness. We believe that this bill will make a decisive contribution in this direction. We would therefore like the state to intervene to perform two main functions: a redistributive and regulatory one. The continuing devaluation by previous neoliberal governments of the state's redistributive and redistributive operation was ultimately the door that led us to the memorials. Obviously, our concept differs radically. At the same time, we are critically reviewing all the previous regulatory framework that has been shaped in previous years. Our strategic aim is for the regulators of the state to effectively serve the public interest, the protection of the environment of workers, the needs of small and large enterprises. But where the regulatorial role of the state rejects other purposes or failures, we are moving with determination and with specific areas for improving the business environment in our country. So we are serving this very perception of this initiative. To date, there has been no single operational and stable framework. The current aim is to reform the law of company transformations and to systematic it for the first time in a legislative text, and its benefits are multiple. The law of company transformations provides interested parties with the necessary legal tools for the effective implementation of their objectives. It shall ensure the uninterrupted and smooth continuation of legal personality and the company in the transformed entity, without risk of deterioration of the unity and integrity of the components that constitute it. It guarantees the protection of the interests of workers, creditors and partners of the transformed entity and ultimately strengthens legal certainty and trade security to the necessary extent. The main classes of transformation are three: mergers, divisions, transformations. The legislation in force up to now only provided for specific transformations for mergers and categories of undertakings, which would lead to the possibility of unforeseen transformations and to the creation of ambiguities in an area where legal certainty should be the first one. At the same time, it comes from the point of view of the past that a large number of possible transformations are being ignored, the unwanted phenomenon of so-called abusive transformations will be jeopardised. These are procedures which, in comparison with the explicitly provided for in the law of transformations, are no longer simple and safe. The main problems of legislative policy are the facilitation or non-transformation of the characteristics of universalisation and the continuation of dynamic personality, the treatment of transformation processes in a single way, the balancing of the interests of minority shareholders or partners and creditors of transformed companies, the facilitation of corporate transformations, the drastic expansion of the range of authorised transformations into all commercial companies falling within the subjective scope of the proposed draft law. Reform is also allowed with the participation of two or more companies of different types. The rule here must be simple and say that everyone can merge with everyone, everyone can absorb everyone, everyone can be divided, everyone can benefit from everyone, everyone can be transformed. The continuation of business by a new operator facilitates both the arrest of the middle material and the procedural issues. In the case of merger and division, the continuation of business is legally achieved in particular through the universal succession institution, while in the case of conversion any succession element is missing, as the converting entity continues under the new legal regime. Balance of interests, fundamental and recognised safeguards, which our fairness knows from the already regulated forms of transformations, extend to the whole range of mental transformations. Restriction of abusive transformations and mixing of tax legislation. The incentives to adapt to abusive transformation do not need to compensate for the absence of the universal succession privilege with tax facilities and incentives. The main provisions concern the procedure for the protection of shareholders, the protection of creditors, the responsibility of managers and members of the Board of Directors and the nullity. In particular, in the first part of this bill, we have the scope. In the second part we have mergers for corporate laws 2190/2012 and 3190/2012. The merger between the companies of the same legal form is envisaged, i.e. only in S.A., EIA and IKE. In addition, the bill provides for the possibility of mergers of all types of companies in all legal forms. The third part is the division. The division of a company today was foreseen only for anonymous companies. The bill specialises the procedure according to the legal form of each company, as each company type has its own peculiarities. Also, for the first time - it is important to say this - the partial division process is being introduced, which is a constant demand from the business world. In the fourth part we have the companies' conversions. Our company law so far does not provide for the conversion of a personal company of the EC and the EU to anonymously. This possibility is only now provided by analogous application of the provisions of Law 2190, since the conversions are regulated only by tax development laws. In the fifth part is the final and transitional provisions. Something that has also emerged from the process, and I must say that we have found a need to commit, on the basis of conversions and transformations, to which the tax incentives are. So, as far as tax incentives are concerned, because it is precisely the matter of another Ministry, the Ministry of Finance, we are committed to helping us, too, so that we have tax incentives as soon as possible in terms of company transformations. The second part of this draft law concerns the incorporation of European Directive 55/2014 on electronic invoicing in public procurement. The directive therefore establishes a common European standard for electronic invoicing in public procurement, which has already been incorporated into the national standardisation system. Also, when we say electronic invoice, we only mean computer invoices, which can be processed automatically and digital by the customer. The aim of the electronic invoicing is to create, send and transmit, but at the same time to receive and process the invoice, so that the procedures are fully automated. The electronic invoicing in our country has been in place since 2015. What changes with the incorporation of the directive is that for the first time a common European standard for electronic invoicing is established, which will also mean achieving the interoperability of tariff systems in the single market and harmonising procedures for the electronic procurement of contracts. The application of electronic invoicing is a tool for digitisation and modernisation of public administration as a whole. The introduction of electronic invoicing in the context of public procurement contributes to automation and other post-entrustment processes with secondary results, such as electronic orders, electronic payments and electronic archiving, with a view to electronicisation from the outset as part of the procedures. The limitation of private tax, the strengthening of the auditing capacity and greater transparency is achieved. Finally, it should be noted that the CSTs to be delegated to this law are already being processed by the competent bodies, which have been invited to participate by representatives from all the relevant ministries and which will be ready in the next period, i.e. until the beginning of May, for the central government authorities. The commitment resulting from ratification is that it should also apply to non-central government authorities by May 2020. I also have to observe it - and I have to say it - from the debate in the committees, there has been an issue on the cost of electronic invoicing software, which we have committed to seeing. We will see if there are any possibilities for how this situation can be served. This is the first request, that they should be able, that is, to collect and process electronic invoices in accordance with the European standard for issuing electronic invoicing. And since next year it should be - in one year's time, i.e. May, as I said to you - for all the authorities and bodies, i.e. non-central government. These, ladies and gentlemen, are the two parts of this bill, which relates to this process. Our attempt to establish a climate of confidence, a modernisation and an attempt to establish rules of law and transparency throughout the market, in the whole of entrepreneurship, so that we can move away from past phenomena, is what we want and is very important to us. It is important to recognise the main causes that led to the previous crisis, where we are now at the beginning of its appeal. An important factor, an important aspect, was customerity in relations, state-owned entrepreneurship, non-transparency and non-common rules for all. In other words, there was no legal certainty as regards genuine competition. We have taken a series of initiatives on this issue. We believe - and we are sure - that it is in a positive direction. Moreover, the positions of all social and productive actors in these specific business-related bills are proof of this. Everyone, not only accepts the positive direction, but also recognises their involvement and the satisfaction of the business world's lasting and constant demands in company law legislation. In any case, what we believe is that in the new era of growth - which we believe is that we are insinuating and building with considerable potential for this perspective - it is important that the rules on transparency and equality are specific, that they are strong, that they are possible to all, because in the new era when we do not want the paths of the past to be repeated. We insist on this point of view. We put important parameters in this direction. We are sure of the success we will have in the new era in terms of growth. A development for all, for entrepreneurship, for workers, for the country, in short, for fair growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u5	We shall now proceed with the rapporteur from New Democracy, Mr Charalambos Athanasios. Here, Mr. Athanasios, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before entering my suggestion, I would like to make a clarification and, at the same time, to give an answer to the Prime Minister, who in his trilogy at the sitting on the revision of the Constitution - and at the time when I left Parliament to go to another party meeting - tried to identify my own concern with that of Mrs Thanos. But the Prime Minister concealed that I did not retire. I quit long before I retired. My election was set under the crisis of the Greek people and was elected MP. Then I'm cut off. It was not the same thing, because Mrs Thanos was retired and President of the Ice Bay agreed to become a poster to the Prime Minister's office. In addition, a similar case to my own was Mr Nicoludi's. Mr Tsipras - and quite rightly so - chose an excellent public prosecutor, who honoured the judiciary with his morale and science, Mr Takis Nikoloudis. And he did not retire, but resigned, although he had not been elected a Member. And then I wonder: Is it wrong for a minister of a state to serve another function of the state at some point, transferring his knowledge and experience? And we have too many examples of these. I am referring to Deyannis, the Russian, the Kouvelakis, the Athanasopoulos, and there are so many others. Why was that all said? Because, while SYRIZA and the Prime Minister were always the leader of the Officerial Representation - and I visited him as President of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors - he felt that Article 90(5) should be revised to cut off the umbilical cord of justice and executive power in the selection of the leadership of the Supreme Courts, he did not do so. There are too many publications in "AGEI". Why? Because in the summer we have major changes again. Changes the President of the Ice Bay, the Vice-Presidents of the Supreme Courts, the Prosecutor of the Ice Arena, and if you would bring this arrangement, you could not do the "builds" of the past where forty-seven worthy judges had been omitted. I am tabling what the Prime Minister said on 13-02-2019. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Charalambos Athanasios, presents for the minutes the above written extract of the minutes, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And now on the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is the result of drawing two other bills, which were created separately from one another. So, before we go into its substantive examination, I would like to say that the government is on the table for this, because it did not explain why the two legislative initiatives of the same Ministry - which concern completely different issues and which were drawn up and given for consultation separately - had to be merged into a single bill and even so hasty procedures. On the main theme of the bill, we note that the New Democracy does not address this legislative initiative to systemify the law on company transformations. It is clear that we are in favour of a single piece of legislation, which deals in a strategic and holistic way with the issues of mergers, divisions and conversions of company formations, instead of these provisions being scattered into various legislations. And it is a responsibility that the New Democracy supports any legislative initiative here or at administrative level - from wherever it comes - contributing to the development of the country. In view of the above, we believe that the bill also includes initiatives, which are in the right direction, such as the introduction to our legal system of concepts of partial division of Article 56, the break-up of Article 57.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Athanasios, I'm sorry to make an announcement for a few seconds to get the kids out of here. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-seven students and students and two teachers attending from the 59th Municipal School of Athens. Welcome to the House! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Thank you, Mr. Athanasios. Keep it up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u8	However, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that this bill has a fundamental lack of legislation, regulation of the interaction of tax law with company law in company transformations, which is a long and well-established problem. The Government could have taken the initiative to incorporate in this bill all tax law provisions in order to fully regulate the issue of corporate transformations and to address effective problems and discomfort. These problems will not be resolved in the present form of the existing Article 4, as was the result of the hearing of the bodies. The government has therefore lost the opportunity to incorporate principles of a more general tax strategy in the country, incentives - counter-incentives, with regard to corporate transformations and, at the same time, to resolve technical issues relating to accounting and tax imaging, as well as to monitoring these companies. On the other hand, we have doubts as to the completeness of the provisions on other issues, such as the minimum content of the plans for company transformations, and the publicity that they have to obtain, the preventive control of legality and, in particular, the precise limits of control that become unclear, the private decisions by the regional minister, as we consider it useful to establish a maximum period of time beyond which the transformation is considered to be adopted. With regard to the legal concept of falling, which was mentioned in the original form of the bill, the Minister rightly replaced this term with the word ‘loss’, which may be required by the managers of the personal companies or the board of directors of the capital companies. In other words, responsibility is being made here - and quite rightly - erroneously objective. It is not subjective, but is not genuinely objective. The general provisions of this draft law must maintain the balance between the aims of speeding up, simplifying procedures and combating bureaucracy, but also the protection of shares, creditors and creditors. In view of the above, the New Democracy agreed with the view - expressed by many operators - that it would be wise to postpone the draft law for a short period in order to be supplemented by provisions clarifying the tax regime for corporate transformations. We believe that this must be done, because there will be no malfunctioning. After that, it was followed by the express and public commitment by the Minister that, within the quarter, he will also bring rules to Parliament on outstanding tax matters. Our overall assessment is that, while it is a bill that still has flaws, its philosophy does not conflict with the New Democracy's positions to facilitate business activity and mobility in the free market and solve some existing problems. This became even more clear, especially after our interventions - not only in the New Democracy, which were most of them, but also in the other parties - which led to amendments and legislative improvements which brought about considerable improvements. That, Minister, I have to tell you in public, we believe in it. You brought forty-four legislative improvements. And I must say, and I address all those who participated in the committee, that in fact the debate in the committee during the drafting of the bill was at a high level. Now for the articles, the draft law basically follows a common philosophy of regulating most of the issues of corporate transformations and only on specific issues introduces exceptional arrangements depending on the type of company transformation or the type of company involved in this transformation. Therefore, the same or similar arrangement is repeated several times in the draft law. Why? Because we have mergers, transformations and divisions. Therefore, in addition to this general rule that they are merged, broken or converted, the individual details are identical. So in view of these and of the report of the bill, we are grouping our comments in so far as they are common to different articles. In order to demarcate the forms of corporate transformations in Article 1, it is necessary to clarify whether insurance undertakings will also be included in the scope of this Law when using the resolution and recovery measures and whether reference should be made to Article 2 of the relevant Law, No.4335/2015. As regards the subjects of corporate transformations in the scope of the law - I am referring to Article 2 -, individual companies do not refer to the scope of this law, although their treatment as corporate schemes is already provided for by existing tax provisions. This is technically correct, i.e. it does not include, as individual undertakings do not have a separate legal personality. However, in practice various issues arise, in particular, in the transformation of individual enterprises and of rights into companies, which should at least be addressed in the field of tax law. In fact, there is no case-law of the courts. We point this out, Minister, without that meaning we are voting against the article. Conversions of broken companies. I am referring to Articles 3, 24 and 77. We disagree with the possibility of transforming companies that have been solved, cleared, etc. Before revival, it is considered that resuscitation occurs retrospectively after transformation. It is appropriate to clarify the precise reliance procedure. The tax provisions of Article 4 have been mentioned at the outset. And the hearing confirmed our view that the present form of the article cannot deal with many issues of tax law, such as Law No 1297/1972, Law No 2166/1993. In the draft convention - merger in Article 7, there is a mismatch with Article 69(2). 2 (e) of Law 2190/1920 on the failure to refer to the financial results of companies which will arise after the merger. In addition, paragraph 2(c) does not specify precisely how the companies are to be made available to the acquiring company. Exemption: Articles dealing with exemption from obligation to prepare exposure before corporate transformation, i.e. Articles 9(5), 61(5), 79(2) and 106(4). They are identical in nature, I told you, if we have mergers, divisions or conversions. Since corporate transformations may also raise issues for third parties, for example, if we have a confiscation of creditors, we consider that there is no need for this exception. What's the exception? Do not require a report from the board of directors or managers if all shareholders or partners agree. That's what the law says. However, this is not only the protection of partners and shareholders, but creditors. So we don't have creditors to pay off. As far as the qualifications of experts in Article 10 are concerned, we objected. With the legislative improvement you have brought, Minister, we fully agree. I won't deal with this for an economy of time. I come to the contents of the expert report. It is Article 28.1, Article 62, Article 81(1) and Article 10(5). This draft law does not precisely define the content of the expert report, especially in cases where it does not concern a merger. It is unclear, however, whether experts will have the right to carry out evaluation crises or whether their role will be purely technical. There was a correction to Article 10(7) by replacing the word 'declaration' with the word 'an opinion'. We agree with this legislative improvement, but you can see it in the other articles that I mentioned. With regard to the exemption from the obligation to examine the draft contract by experts, it is again proportionate to Article 10.7, Article 28.1 and Article 81(1). In combination with the previous point, we therefore consider that the exceptions to the obligation to examine the draft contract by experts create opaque for third parties. The expert's plan should in all cases be compulsory because it concerns the protection of third parties rather than partners or shareholders. In that sense we say that. It is an article in which we will hear what you say and look after the vote. As regards the availability of the documents for examination by shareholders or partners, these are the documents referred to in Articles 11, 26, 31, 63, 84 and 107. These articles therefore provide for different deadlines. I think you brought me a legal improvement, and you made two of them?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u9	Two.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u10	Accepted. We will see them, and of course we will remove the reservations, and these articles will also be voted on. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need one more minute. You see, it's a big deal. Fortunately, Mr President, the committee was well worked out, otherwise we would be speaking here for hours. I think you altered the date, the twenty-two days with the legislature?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u11	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u12	Right. As regards the preventive control of legality, which relates to Articles 17, 69 and 112, I believe that it should be defined in the administration, regions - Ministries. If, i.e. two companies are in the same region, it is responsible for being the regional director, and if the two merging companies are in different regions, it is responsible for being the Minister. Have binding time and deadlines, at the end of which corporate transformation will be deemed to have been adopted in order to speed up the process. So I don't see why, if we want to run a little bit, why do we have to wait for a deadline for the regulator or Minister to decide? If time is elapsed, it is considered to have been approved. That's what you said you'll see. I don't know if you're gonna bring me legal. We'll watch and see. We have mentioned them for the responsibility and the improvement you have made. But I have a big problem, and even though I worked it very much yesterday and the day before, with the nullity, Articles 20, 72 and 116, which are similar. There is a confusion here. Of course, the title of the article must be changed and be ‘declaration’ of the merger and not ‘irregularity’. I, too, have made a different wording, because we must see that we are void, nullity and improper. Because they are completely different and have something to do with active legitimacy, that is, who will offend and what the results are. At some point, if you wish, we can also discuss this with Mr Teddy and with you, see if this article can be formulated because I consider it essential. It'll cause problems. Don't get tired right now. We can say it in dentistry, if there is. Or if you don't fix it, of course, we can't agree. We believe that the six-month limitation period for the relevant requirement of Articles 21, 38, 73 and 17 is extremely short. I don't know if you've made this through legislation, Minister. I'd like to hear you write it down. There may be a problem with the results of the division. As this was raised by BSE, there is a possible issue only with the transfer of licences for insurance companies in the event of a break-up. It's a question of questioning. I don't know if you've studied it, it's a BSE position. It does not mean that we necessarily agree 100%, but I wanted to hear your opinion. I now come to the results of the conversion of Article 113.1: it is stated that the conversion of new companies will not be universal successors of the original companies, but special successors. That is, while in other cases are all Catholic successors, namely the merger and division of new companies are universal successors, here you have special successors and I would like to hear the reasoning. With regard to the minimum capital of property value, Article 123 shall not be specified when the report will be published. However, I think it results from other provisions and we do not insist. As regards the inclusion of the amendment under a general number of 1951 and a specialist 41 tabled by the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Kaklamanis, I think you have accepted it. We support it and need to be voted on. Now from BSE, and I conclude, there has been a matter for merged pharmaceutical companies in order to exclude them from Article 111 of Law 4052/2012, the claw back we are talking about, which we developed last time. I would like to know what your opinion is. As regards Section 2 and harmonisation of the legislative framework with the provisions of Directive 2014/55 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on electronic invoices in the context of public procurement, we are in favour of this harmonisation, because it is undoubtedly aimed at modernising and clarifying public procurement and I do not need to carry out any further analysis of these articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u13	Please close the registration system. From what I have been told, three or four colleagues have been written. Therefore, not only will it not take another day, but we will end early, with the speaking time and perhaps the Members of Parliament will also have a second word if they want to. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, twenty-five students and students and two educational attendants from the "Chrysostomos Smyrna". The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mr Minister, if I understood well by the rapporteur of the New Democracy, he would vote in favour of the bill proposed by the government, despite all the objections they put forward. We have a different concept in this. We believe that the bridges established by SYRIZA for growth as much as for employment are proportionate to the memorial he made yesterday in a small room. Why am I saying that? Here, Minister, when we talk about growth - and I have heard your rapporteurs too - I would like to ask what development you are talking about and how it is done? When the companies - and this had happened in the past, but you have simply finished it - are investing in Greece by lending from the National Bank without their own funds, without employment clauses? See 'Eleftherios Venizelos' because they hear from us here young people: a foreign investor who - in quotes - buys 45% - 55% to 1,400,000 euros - went to 1,400,000 euros because the committee told you - that the investor from where he gets money from, Minister? From the National Bank of Greece. They are not even borrowed by the foreign banks to which they are themselves. So instead of the National Bank, which has the public and you're putting the CEO to provide loans to small and medium-sized enterprises, do you finance who? The German who does not put his own funds, without an employment clause, and the National Bank gives him a loan. Do you have this job in mind? This is employment for you. Such friends, such governments have never found any businessmen in and out of the country again. Because I have listened to you and I have seen this consensus, which exists between the opposition and the majority, I would like to remind everyone that, when we talked about the surpluses, we have all come out and said that negotiations can take place, we will discuss it after the elections. And then everyone laughed at us and fooled us and SYRIZA said, "But what are these things you say, they can't do that." Yesterday I heard Mr Tsakalotos say that they will consent, after they said that the New Democracy would be elected. All Mr. Chakalotos didn't say is that the New Democracy won't get self-reliance. After he said that the New Democracy would win, he said that we would consent to support in order to discuss the surpluses. These are, ladies and gentlemen, which you are putting in this House and which we are discussing. You know what? Those who have the same ideological and political orientation cannot be concealed. SYRIZA cannot be hidden, who basically adopts all the policies of the New Democracy. And just the New Democracy, when it adopts them, will come to a majority. I warn you: regarding the law you bring to protect the first home, for free you make the war with the banks. What about the banks with what you testify to? You call him the law of Katseli - your goddess! - the law you did not vote on. And because you bought Mrs Katseli with a government chair, you call him Katseli's law not to remind him it's PASOK's law! You're not playing! We are talking about a law which you have not voted on for the protection of first residence! Ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement will not adopt, it will not support your legislative initiative because, as I have said, it may be good intentions and I may be able to say very good words about the Minister personally, about his attitude, but in no case can it be implemented. You know what? We'll talk about this later. It's gonna be like the cannabis you voted for eight months ago, and now you're flipping and changing it. That's how you're gonna do it. There's no incentive, tax, insurance, to do all this. So, as George Carras quite rightly said, economic reality will put the bill aside, something you know very well. In fact, the bureaucracy that exists, even though you have become German friends and adopt the German model on a very large basis, does not make it easier. Thirdly, the institutions themselves - and I would like to believe that you too, Mr Athanasios, after you said so, will not vote at the end - have called for the suspension.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u15	The case-law of the Greek courts has accepted these.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u16	The bodies requested the suspension of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u17	What are you talking about? The agencies asked for the parole?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u18	If you read, you can see that there were bodies...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u19	You weren't on the board.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u20	I was in. They requested the suspension so that there would be a single bill with the tax incentives that the Minister himself said. The Minister said he'd bring them in in three months. And I wonder, will you be Minister in three months? Is there going to be a government? So, since you will be Minister and you will be a government - I will accept it, I am not bad faith, saying that you will not be a government - then why are you nervous and do not bring the whole bill in three months so that it can be consolidated, vote together and be this substantial bill that will really help the market? Minister, I told you before. Anyone who wants dialogue has room for dialogue. It is the 'ELLADA' programme which we tabled on 13 November on the package, and that is where the tax incentives can be used for business purposes. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But a dialogue for you is the acquisition of faces in a chair. Of course, this presupposes people who even for a few days in power want this chair. In the end, you say "half a shame of ours, half a disgrace, let them become Ministers". In other words, you are thinking of all the things you have denounced, the worst moments in the past few years. That's why, Minister, I didn't see you in the picture. Yesterday's bridge was a real memorial. Because when bridges are made by professionals and not by the ordinary world, then they only happen for chairs and you really have room to give enough chairs. Now we're going to the amendment. Minister, we voted for the amendment on cannabis medication, because we believe that patients in Greece really need it, that they cannot go abroad to buy these medicines. But here today is not just a small change. What are you actually doing? Because building a space for medicine cannabis has a whole process. So, in order for people to understand us here, it actually sets up a fortress so that the processing unit can be inside and no one can get in, because you know what could be done and how dangerous it would be. It's building three meters of fortress, with cameras, connected to the police, and all that. You say today that this can be built in the plain of Larissa, Imathia, everywhere. This can only be a photo for someone. You, Minister, would you do this to what you were saying, would you stand in the Larissa Fortress? We're talking fortresses. Why don't you change all these terms? But the Minister for Rural Development did not come. You heard the expressions of your ex, Minister for Rural Development yesterday how he dealt with this amendment when he heard it. So here today you need to explain. Do you do a photo set for someone who's going to set up in? So you're gonna take off the peaches you were saying, Mr. Demetriades, to make fortresses in the campus?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u21	No, you were saying so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u22	In Larissa, there's no peaches.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u23	In Larissa, no, Imathia? So, here's a thing. I told you that you did not bring it before, to call Mr Karanika, who is responsible for cannabis in general - I think he will be at all levels - to tell us exactly what investments have been made so far. Because, if investment has not been made, it means that it is another gift to an entrepreneur. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we will not vote, we will not support the bill, as I have told you. But we also call on you and the Opposition not to support this bill, because it is a bill that will not help the real economy and the only progressive solution is the "ELLADA" and the Change Movement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u24	We proceed with the special speaker from the Golden Dawn, Mr. Ilias Panagiotaro.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. We are discussing a draft law with a particularly heavy technical title: ‘Company transformations and harmonisation of the legislative framework with the provisions of Directive 2014/55/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on electronic invoicing in the context of public contracts and other provisions’. A bill aimed at improving, as you say and argue, and further developing business in our country. Of course, the fact that this is a European norm, at least half, cancels your alleged interest in the business events of our country and whatever their improvement and, secondly, demonstrates the hypocrisy of your arguments about this bill. We comment that if this directive was not mandatory, you would not even have put it to the vote, for consultation, for argument. But let us accept that this bill is moving in the right direction, as you say. Do any of you really think any of the directly or indirectly involved producers - in or out of import - of our country that this bill is of little importance, when there is VAT at 24%, about 1/4 of any transaction, when insurance contributions reach 26% and when companies make a profit? But that's what it's all about, companies making a profit. Does anyone think that this bill has the slightest meaning, when there is a 100% tax advance for next year, when there is a taxation of income in fact to God, when red tape in our country is the number one blocking factor for anyone who wants to do anything within the Greek territory? And whoever doesn't know and comes, usually leaves and leaves at night. Does anyone think it is of the slightest importance that this bill, when the European Union itself imposes on us various norms, which imposed on us through its troika and domestic officials, has a hostile attitude towards small and medium-sized businessmen, craftsmen, farmers throughout Europe, for the benefit of multinationals and interests of other countries? Does anyone think that this bill is of any importance when there is no sign of protectionism for Greek products and Greek workers in our home country? And because you speak and say a lot of remarks about development in our country, about getting out of the memorials, and at last we can fly forward, forget about it, let's see what happened in the past year, because every day there are financial data showing the tragicity of the situation. 64% of Greek citizens are hard to get through. 85% is unable to save. Unemployment, despite the damaged elements, as many people have explained in and out of this House, is increasing and was plus 2% last month. Those who find work are on job rotation, four hours, some days a week. If they don't change the above first, which all the prominent economists tell you, everyone involved or want to suggest how this country can get out of the stall, light is not going to see and the whole bill is not going to have any meaning at all. The various companies, which are supposed to benefit from this bill, as you are trying to convince us, depending on their potential, size and nature, whether they change their tax base and we see it constantly, whether they are small and medium-sized enterprises, in neighbouring countries, where the insurance, tax and bureaucratic environment is much better, or close. There's no other way. Just yesterday he closed another Greek company dealing with clothing, the "RAXEVSKY" and a hundred employees were left on the street and the well-known motto of the closed companies has no end. Let us not, of course, talk about those who should be the driving force behind the development of our home economy, the young, these educated minds, who have gone completely abroad. I was watching Mr Xanthos' answer to a timely question and he said about doctors: 'You know, we have a problem, because they have all left abroad and we have no staff to do'. Well, of course, how will the hospitals be able to serve with what you give them and what you tax them? Now, if you want to develop the Koskotta type, which was the first teacher to buy a bank and pay later with the bank's money, which you're doing now, we don't think it's growth. As also in a free economy, funding is needed either organised by the state to specific bodies, in order to develop or from the banking system, if and if they are sound. But how can a bank system be healthy and what development to talk to us and what electronic invoices and other flammables you tell us, when the only ones receiving loans are bankrupt political parties, particularly PASOK and New Democracy, which together owes around EUR 450 million when they are given sea loans to political executives, who do not repay them at all or when they pay them back, are paid back by the definition of the most favourable term, in terms that the ordinary Greek citizen would like to pay back with great pleasure any loans and obligations he has towards banks or others, without having any problem. However, these apply only to those politicians who have taken super-sea-loans. Only that has to do with tourism and shipping in our country is going well. The tourist's going on his own to the autopilot. Let Mrs Koutura not boast, who owes more than EUR 1 million to loans, that she has put her hand in this. If you ask the businessmen involved in tourism, it is not that they put money in the pocket, except for few cases - those who have large companies based abroad, yes, they do not pay taxes or pay small taxes and have profits - simply because of the turnover, they can live in relation to others who do not. And shipping has nothing to do with the Greek State. These are two areas in which, as we have said, the Greek public is fortunately not involved. This draft is not an incentive for well-intentioned entrepreneurship. We've explained it to you, we'll explain it to you all the time and you'll see it in practice. You will, of course, be in the Opposition, but that does not matter, because the ones who come the same knowledge have on the business. And in all of this, in this technical business bill, you're slapping us with an amendment to the cannabis. Here we have a number of comments to make. First of all, you are not at all believed in the innocentness of your interest, the interest that SYRIZA shows in the medical industrial exploitation of cannabis. You bring it from here, bring it from there, in order to end up in your time schedule for the complete release of the basilos and the flogging of the Greek society. It's your goal to make the dream of each caranica reality. And because the Greek society is kind of mysteries, you bring it through the method of salinification. Let us not forget the former Prime Minister Jeffrey Papandreou, who said we should plant and gauze on our terraces so that at all times and at all times we can get high. Of course, there is another angle that we can see about this amendment, which has to do with the redefining of areas where hemp varieties of the kind Cannabis Sativa L, which is more than 0,2% tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) may be cultivated and processed. It has to do with the business, which may not have been considered by some at first, but they thought about it later. Are we putting down for the record the "flyers" business by Mr. Karanika's sister, who Xanthiula Karanika - random? - Not many people know about it, she works for Golden Greece Holdings, which has been ready for some time, since she had rather information from the inside, she took advantage of the recent provisions of the relevant draft law on drug cannabis. They were completely prepared, they knew everything before, and they've started doing good work. I'm figuring out for the record and another piece of evidence. Let the Minister deny us or anyone else. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above mentioned articles, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let us now come back to this technical bill, which is about the development of the business. Many blame the Golden Dawn for not having positions, no opinions, no program. We challenge them because this morning on a radio broadcast with a very high audience, some arguments of the style have been heard that it is wrong that the members of the Golden Dawn are not invited to the radio or television to be humiliated by their positions and opinions. We challenge them wherever and whenever they want to call us on any issue and discuss with all these intestines representing other parties, which have forty years destroyed our country and now are again called upon as self-determined saviors to save us, to tell us how the third political power is, which is Golden Dawn, without state funding, has not been borrowed or euro, without owed to anyone, to remain a third political force. And since we can and do well with the house, do you think that we will not be able to have our country's homeland in relation to those who also owe at a party level of more than EUR 200 million each, but also hundreds of thousands of euros individually MPs and officials from the Officerial Representation or other parties who are proclaiming to become government and save us again? We have proposals. At all times and at all times here we're here to tell you and put us on the wall. Also, because self-government elections come and a lot of talk is being done and we hear from the outgoing District Commissioner Mr. Durou how well she has done in all areas, except for her responsibility in Matti, Mandra and elsewhere, to brag and tell us that it is not a make news that the assistance of the Attica Region under her cover to entrepreneurship is not a take-up. We are constantly hearing huge sums of money sharing in fora, in programmes, but nothing at all, in fact, in the real economy. The small and medium-sized businessman, the craftsman, the farmer in the Attica region, has not benefited from anything from the Attica region. They share huge sums which are basically thrown into a barrel without the bottom. The self-government expression of the Golden Dawn for the Attica Region, of which I have the honour of leading and going down, has a programme that is very specific and we call on you, "friends and enemies" in any sort of sort, about our proposals and our positions and not on the vocals "we do not speak with nazi", "we do not speak with one", "we do not speak with the other". We are returning them to you and returning them to you by the Greek people. In conclusion, we would also like to tell you about this issue and everything that both in the central political scene and in the self-government will give us our best self. We will provide the entrepreneurial experience that many of us have on the real market and not on flames. Because, gentlemen of the government, it doesn't only matter what one says and what one promises. It's important who says it. And since you have not stuck a single sign in TEBE, in the real market, it is absolutely irrelevant what you say. We are voting against this bill, we are voting against the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u26	We proceed with the special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Athanasio Bardalis. Here, Mr Vardalis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. The bill we are debating today is another commitment to the troika on corporate transformations. We are talking about a crucial issue for capital, improving its competitiveness and increasing its profitability. Why is it an important issue for business groups? Because among the other structural problems faced by the Greek capitalist economy is also the very small ones compared with other European Union countries, which makes them difficult to compete which has become increasingly acute in recent years. And what is the bill on company transformation coming to solve, and how does it do that? First of all, it wants to contribute even more towards greater flexibility, so that companies can merge, change, detach branches of all types of companies, so that they can move forward in an unintentionally way to concentration and concentration of capital, to increase companies, so that they can stand up to this competitive environment in the European Union, but also globally. And this problem comes to be solved by the current government with this bill. Is this measure alone to overcome the problems of companies with their competition, in order to increase their profitability? No, of course not. After all, the promotion of transformations is not a disintegrated measure, but is part of a more general attempt to reform all commercial law. I would remind you that in the recent past the government has modernised the law on public limited companies, the companies, has simplified the procedures for establishing and re-establishing companies, has taken steps to reduce their operating costs, bureaucracy and others in this direction, such as a series of measures to improve the investment climate. What will be the first in this direction? The change, for example, of the development law? The new law on strategic investments that are ready in their drawers? The register, the forest maps, the shaping of hayals, the transfer of businesses from informal concentrations to organised infrastructures and, of course, a series - especially this - financial instruments that help investment and capital attraction? Remember the NSRF, the Juncker Packet, the development bank and everything else. Although everything the government has done for the sake of capital was not very small, it is not going to stop here. Such legislative initiatives will also be followed for GEMH, chambers and they will go by saying. All these measures and many others express precisely the requirements of capital. They serve the objective of capitalist recovery, on which the current government is working, by legislating measures to boost the competitiveness and profitability of business groups. So, in our view, nothing happens at all. A policy is being implemented that is coherent and has a clear objective, precisely that, to increase the profitability of business groups. That's why today's government works. But if we assume that all these institutional tools will work in the most impeccable way, then mergers and the growth of businesses will go unnecessarily? In our opinion, no. Firstly, for the immediate future there are a number of predetermined measures in the memorandum period, restructuring to be implemented and implemented, regardless of who will be in the government in the coming years. Secondly, there is also a need for tax incentives to facilitate mergers and business cooperation. And the government here is ready. At the hearing of bodies, for example, the representatives of the industrialists, the Stock Exchange, SETE and others asked for new tax incentives and for the draft law to be postponed for a short time until the harmonization of tax law on the needs of companies is carried out. And the government didn't waste time. In the Committee's debate, which is to say at the next meeting of the committee, it is good to say that, within two months, it will bring in a new tax draft with incentives to facilitate mergers. In other words, another free money, obviously to combat state-owned entrepreneurship, as the SYRIZA rapporteur has told us, is the problem in the development of the economy. In short, here, this is SYRIZA's new development model! Such measures, such restructurings tell us that they improve the country's credibility. The country's credibility towards who? But in the face of markets, against the International Monetary Fund, NATO, the European Union, creditors. But all this has nothing to do with the interests of workers and the people, none at all! Besides, you've lost credibility to the people since the first day you came out to the government. This, however, does not prevent you from giving hollow promises to restore injustices, fair growth and so forth. These measures that you are now legislating are nothing other than measures that are left over from the memoranda, you have not been able to take them on behalf of capital. On all these issues of this coherent policy followed and implemented by the SYRIZA Government, what do other opposition parties say?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Bardale, I'm interrupting for a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-eight students and students and three teachers attending the 3rd Grade of Zomographs. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here you go, Mr. Vardalis, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u29	So what are the measures for other parties in the Opposition? Here are some proposals: reducing the tax burden on enterprises, improving business environment, simplifying licensing, modern urban planning framework, affordable energy costs for businesses, limiting the share of the PPC market, especially tax incentives to mobilise private capital for financing - support for newly-built enterprises, proceed directly to mergers, takeovers and partnerships. In the face of these proposals, if anyone closed their eyes and listened to them, could he possibly see which party the program is there? The answer is, no. Why? But because all of this is in all the programs of all the parties, the government and the opposition. And not only do you agree with this, but you ask the government to take more in this direction. For example, you are asking for capital taxes to be reduced further. Besides, all the relevant bills, which I mentioned earlier, concern business groups, companies of all kinds, you have all voted for them. Therefore, the idea forged by both SYRIZA and the New Democracy, that there are two conflicting worlds, in this case it turns out to be how polluting they are. "Progress" - in introductory - and "conservation", but when it comes to the interests of capital, about what must be done to be competitive, to make its profits even worse, then you all go hand in hand, you find them fine. Of course, you also have differences, but these are about how this objective will be implemented, with what measures, who is more capable of implementing them. So you have differences in secondary issues that may also have their meaning, but they do not change direction, that is, target. You say that through this capitalist development workers will also win. However, this process of concentration and concentration of capital will have huge social consequences. On the one hand, there will be more and more wealth in less hands, and on the other hand, the relative and absolute impoverishment of the working class and the popular strata will be increased. From this point of view, it is interesting to see whether the position of the workers of the transformed companies is affected by this bill. In Articles 12 and 64, for example, of the draft law, which stipulates that - I read - 'in any case of transformation governed by this provision workers shall be protected, in accordance with the existing provisions and the change in the person of the employer'. What was the protection so far from the existing provisions invoked by the bill? What does experience say so far? This process of mergers has always been accompanied and accompanied by a reduction in the total number of workers in the merged enterprises, while overall in the economy, there is a dismantling of farmers and a rapid reduction in the number of professional craftsmen. Article 57 of the bill we are debating gives us the possibility of a secondment of a sector. These days we are debating - after all - today - tomorrow we expect it to be tabled by the government - between the government, the bankers and the 'compositions' as to how they will save the first residence, but in fact how the banks will be exempted from red loans. In order to do so, inter alia, the division of the industry or gradually parts of the Red Loans sector is promoted by the banks and their transfer to different funds. The packages of red loans to be transferred will be followed by the corresponding staff transferred to them. After all, this has been announced by the general directors of Piraeus Bank to the workers and the other banks will obviously follow. What is said to us is that massive redundancies cannot be made, in our view is nonsense. The SYRIZA Government has already legitimised mass redundancies, abolishing the approval required for mass redundancies by the Ministry of Labour, while two years ago the European Court of Justice has legalised them, see the case with the ‘SIMENTA HALKIDAS’. Following the sale of red loans and the squeeze of systemic banks, the way for the merger is open even further away from the banks. The theory of two and a half banks has been heard for several years. Now bank workers have experience. In the banking sector since the beginning of the capitalist economic crisis there have been a number of mergers and takeovers, with the result that the four systemic banks and the workers in them are reduced from sixty-eight thousand before the capitalist economic crisis to thirty-eight thousand. The agreed perspective is that by 2021 it will be up to twenty-eight thousand, that is to say to reduce by another ten thousand jobs, that is to say, in the last ten years, workers have been reduced by forty thousand. That is the reality, and that is what experience so far tells us about the protection of workers, which, in our view, is a great mockery. So it is funny to talk about corporate transformations to workers, farmers, self-employed people, when in practice what has been proven is that the only gains earned by concentration and concentration are capital. In fact, it is funny to talk, when you have exhausted the people by taxation and the various pieces of carpets and loafs, so that the state can provide businesses that are transforming various tax incentives. What are you talking about? The barbarity experienced by the labour layers cannot find a way out of the present farm system. This cannot be done under any circumstances polite. Against this background, it is necessary for workers to organise their fight against redundancies, to fight for a contract based on their own interests and not on those of employers, to coordinate their action with all the workers and poor people, to put an end to these unpopular plans by business groups and their governments. As for the second part of the bill, the Digital Agenda for the European Union is one of the seven pillars of the Europe 2020 Strategy, sets out the objectives for the development of the European Union by 2020 and is a crucial element of a modern European Union and especially for the competitiveness of its economy. The electronic invoice we are discussing in the second part of the bill, in the context of public procurement, is a measure that favours large groups through unification of the European Union's market, so that large companies can more easily hit and take large projects throughout the European Union. On the other hand, the cost will be increased for the self-employed and small businesses that will need funds to adapt to the new data. This in itself is a good proof of the benefit of new production tools and new technologies in this way of organising the economy in your system. The use of the Internet and the new means of production for the benefit of the social needs presupposes, in our view, a radically different development path where the basic means of production will be socially owned and based on labour control and popular participation. As far as we are concerned, for all the above reasons, we will vote against this bill both in principle and in the articles. Mr President, I would just like to say a few words about the amendment on the production of cannabis. We disagree because and when the corresponding number of 4523 was discussed in relation to production, transport, processing, etc. the pharmaceutical cannabis, we said that this issue should be resolved by a state monopoly and ensure that those in need of it receive the medicine free of charge. The logic of the government is in a completely different direction. It opens up a new field of profitability and wants to support those producing it. It supports the traders of pain, facilitating them by removing obstacles to be able to cultivate it, for example, in high productivity land. And what you haven't said to pass that logic. Even as an antidote to unemployment you are dealing with the cultivation, processing and export of cannabis medicinal products. We are not talking about the general policy of the narcocult promoted by the government. We will also vote against this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u30	Mr Marios Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to begin by saying that we have had a lot of fruitful - I would say in a good Greek - debate in the committees and a lot of what we have proposed that they have been implemented and we are very happy as a Centron Union for this. Nevertheless, the draft law needs to be improved in some of the articles. I shall refer more generally to companies and not to details of the articles. We've been talking to the committees too. I believe that at the end of the day this draft law will help and support companies, transformations. As I said, in the past few days, we have tabled a series of legislative improvements relating to transformations. I would just like to make some specific remarks. The governments of the last few decades have not shown any interest, and their legislative initiative has not had any desire to lay solid foundations in the real economy, because in the social state any benefits in the weak social groups, from businesses and legal persons will come, and this will come from the taxation of their profits, good or bad. But if there is to be taxation and income in our state, there must first be profits in business, and that is the logic. If we put aside the great tax and tax burdens that are a huge investment incentive, there is additionally bureaucratic costs, pluralism, as well as the delay in justice. If a foreign investor comes and finds out the total cost in time, but also in money, of all the above, unfortunately he is hesitant to trust our country and that is why we see that investments do not exist in Greece in recent years. In our country, corporate transformations were few in number to date and mostly in small and large transaction value. Apart from the incomplete and contradictory legislative framework to date, the number of these transformations was closed, i.e. some corporate forms were excluded from this process, which this bill comes to a conclusion. It was not provided for the conversion of undertakings from a larger legal form to a smaller form than in equivalent or higher legal form. For example, up to now the absorption of an AE from an RES has not been possible. According to GEMH figures, in total Greece during the period 2012 to today, there were a thousand five hundred eighty-three mergers. This information was requested by the BSE and also made available to the Secretariat-General for Trade and Consumer Protection and is also available on the BSE website. So half of these mergers took place in two years 2013-2014 because Law 4172/2013 provided for some more flexibility. According to ‘PriceWaterhouseCoopers’, in 2017 thirty-six takeover and mergers in Greece amounted to EUR 1.6 billion, while the average transaction value was EUR 45 million. This is a shift towards small and medium-sized trades, which is also an indicator of the decline in the Greek economy. It is worth noting the main share of these transactions over the last decade, that they concern both incoming transactions, i.e. acquisition of domestic assets by foreign investors. Incoming transactions accounted for an average of 71% of the total over the period 2007-2017. Similarly, outgoing transactions, i.e. the acquisition and merger of foreign companies by Greek interests, amounted to only 5% of the total, while domestic transactions only 24%. All these facts seem alarming. Sometimes the Greek state seems to be moving at turtle speed and being the pigeon of international developments. I am tabling the PWC minutes on mergers. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In the Central Association we saw most of the changes in this bill with a positive eye. Admittedly, the market wanted and needed such consolidation of individual legislation in a single regulatory framework on how to transform companies. Theoretically, changes to legal persons will be facilitated from now on, provided that the tax and administrative structures of the State are properly informed. To date, there have been too many gaps, ambiguities, omissions in corporate transformations too. These raised problems both with the tax authorities and with individual legal procedures. Several gaps are correctly covered, but there is certainly room for improvement in the law and some points of increased risk, which we have seen and which we feel have been submitted to you in time. According to the changes that we have seen and in line with the improvements we have made, we seek to see in Greece fewer companies - "slash" or so-called "zombies", as they are known on the market. According to the OECD study, ‘job’ enterprises are considered as those over 10 years of age and with interest-covering ratios of less than 1 in three consecutive years. It is noted that this indicator is reflected in the ability of an undertaking to repay interest on foreign capital from net profits and the ratio net profit before tax and interest on total interest. These are quite technocratic, of course. But you know them very well, too, Minister. For the purposes of this claim, please provide relevant OECD information, at your disposal. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So the percentage of companies - "zombies" in the whole economy and the employees in Greece is 28.2%, that is more than 1/4. The next country is Italy with 19.2%. A positive transformation can not only be a clearing of the companies - 'job', as I said before, but also a progress made by a legal person in a more appropriate and more flexible form of operation and administration that will serve more effectively at the end of the day the needs of the market and society. In this respect, several comments were made on the protection of creditors during the transition from one form to another. Apart from our individual concerns, there are also some general concerns about this draft law. We would like to know how the tax plan will be modernised to tie up the current transactions in the transformation of companies. For example, will the legislation on development activities be maintained and its content reformed, or will we lead to a completely new framework, which we still do not know? What exactly will this new framework have? However, the current Income Tax Code is not sufficient to cover all these issues introduced by this bill. Another question and question is this: Do you intend to establish different priorities and different criteria, in relation to development legislation from now on? To date, the main objective has been to have large economic units. We also remember the statements made by the compression officials saying that the time when someone was their own boss if he had a shop is over. These may not be heard in 2019. I make a practical reference to this in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] These podiums and these prejudices - could we say - have you gone over them? Do we, as a state, realize that a business to become large must pass through the stage of the small, hopeful startup? If future development bills do not change attitudes and if little corporate patterns are not given more emphasis, I fear that all the trouble you have done in drafting this bill will not get any place. We also wonder whether there will be tax incentives for companies that have been or have been bankrupt. And if so, what kind of orientation will these tax incentives have? In addition to this, we think that in order to complete the work you intend to do by now, other parallel actions must be taken. Let me give you an example: Will you train GEMI service officials? I am referring to this, because according to the bill, his services are responsible and have the greatest part of the new legal framework. Will there be a transitional period for the publication of the new law and its entry into force in the case of public limited liability companies, in order to adapt to the new forecasts both public administration and business? We recall that Law 4548/2018 was introduced in June 2018. Its strength, however, began at the beginning of this year. Will you introduce tax incentives so that, together with current legislative provisions, there will be a greater production on the market? We all know that, for serious market players, permanent tax incentives are more important than any occasional subsidies or temporary facilities or tax reductions for specific cases. What I would like to stress is the need to harmonise tax legislation and the tax operation of state mechanisms with the current legislation. Modernisation of company law, which is generally attempted by this draft law, is likely to render the tax framework outdated. In this context, we hope, on the one hand, that you will incorporate appropriate tax incentives in the conduct of transformations and, on the other, that you will properly structure a new type of legal person. We also hope in the publication of an interpretative circular with exhaustive instructions on the process of the new form of transaction immediately after the adoption of the new law, including the common exchange of shares, possible estimates, valuations and so on. So that there is a driver - we could say - to businesses with tax benefits and therefore the new provisions become a real useful tool in practice. To conclude, I would like to remind the Government, but also all those who are present, of four burning issues which concern the market. And when I say the market, I mean the big companies and the small individual businesses. The first issue is that the large rates of taxation and the major percentages of insurance contributions are a fact. The high non-wage costs of half the wage costs are unacceptable for a country that seeks to reduce unemployment. And we know that companies are not concerned with the level of taxation as much as with the level of non-wage costs. Another question is that there is a unclear legislative framework leading to the rejection of non-productive expenditure and the insolvency characterised by the State as a result of this ambiguity. The last issue is the slow yield of tax justice. We really see assumptions that they have been afflicting the market for more than a decade. The companies are closing down, transformed, purchased and in the courts cases are tried on corporate bodies, with all the meaning of the word. Countries which have carefully examined the above four points are currently running at a glossy rate of growth. A characteristic example is Ireland, which, with low tax rates and low contributions at the moment, has 62 000 euros per capita GDP, almost five times that of us. And we're talking about a country with half the population of us. So, if we don't want to discover the wheel, at least we can get an example. Success stories exist, as long as we have our eyes and our ears open. I close, Mr President and Minister, saying that it is really a very positive draft law. Most of the provisions in this regard are positive. Minister, I would also like to thank you for being one of the few who have listened to our proposals and implemented them and made them and proceeded to legislative improvements, even though you have not accepted all of them. We will certainly vote in favour of many of the provisions. Our vote will be'represent' in principle and in the articles on this bill. And we will be here to discuss any details you need and to help you as a Centro Association in your work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u32	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House forty-four students and students and three teachers from the General School of Spring. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, I say we give the floor to the three Members who have been registered, and then you take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, I would just like to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u34	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, I am tabling twelve legislative improvements so that the sitting can be read.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u36	I would ask that the legal improvements made by the Minister be photocopied and taken by colleagues so that they can be placed in their dentistry. We shall now proceed to the speakers on the list. The first is Mr. Balomenakis, from SYRIZA. You will also have a relative comfort of time as will the other two colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. The incorporation of the diverse provisions on corporate transformations which are the first time in Greek commercial law will prove to be a very useful legislative initiative in the near future. To date, changes in the company structure, whether intended or forced, were fragmentary and not rarely contradictory in terms of both the necessary formalities and tax. Many times ambiguity and contradiction have opened paths of tax evasion. It was often the delays in handling changes in local Public Financial Services, which usually ask for the Ministry's opinion, resulting in a significant time-lag that overthrows business planning. The main advantages of the new general regulation are simplicity and speed in a tax certainty environment and the protection of creditors of corporate entities. The avoidance of time-consuming and costly winding-up process, in which, in the absence of explicit forecasts, a large part of the parties concerned is considered to contribute to simplifying and speeding up a corporate transformation project. As we know, the economic environment is constantly changing. At other times, there is an opportunity to expand within a favourable context, sometimes an obligation to fold, abandon and reorientate a sector. Opportunities for cooperation and resolution needs are emerging for the continuation of an economic activity. So far the procedures have been long and often literally headaches, not only for the stakeholders, but also for their legal supporters. By unifying the law in the area of corporate transformations, in addition to speed and security, it is crucial that the uninterrupted and smooth continuation of the legal personality and the related corporate business of the transformed entity is ensured. Important, too, is that transparency is enhanced and the rights of the creditors to whom they may consider that the planned reform does not provide them with the necessary insurance and therefore ask for guarantees. On the question of ensuring workers in transformed corporate schemes, the draft law refers to the general provisions on succession. These provisions have been formulated in many legal systems. There is, of course, a European Directive 77 of the former EEC, as amended by Directive 98/1998. Today, the issues relating to the preservation of workers' rights in the event of a transfer of undertakings are adequately regulated, the general rule being that workers' rights are maintained and that the respective obligations are transferred to the new owner. The change in the person of the employer, as long as the undertaking's identity and economic activity is maintained, means regardless of the legal cause of the transfer of the new employer's self-evident substitution at the place of the old. We must also say that it is considered that a contract of employment continues under the same conditions, that is to say it transfers all the rights and obligations which exist in a work relationship. However, since some of the generally accepted arrangements have been formulated legally and because claims can be made against the new body, so they may be slowing down perhaps and decisively, I think that an explicit specialisation in the text of the law is needed to determine exactly what the employees' possibilities are to defend their rights, already from the stage of preparation for company transformation, that is to say, where decisions are made on the future structure, the distribution of workers, the form of contracts, etc. It would be right, therefore, for workers to be informed in writing and for them to be informed in writing as a condition of the completion of the transformation. It is also possible to allow staff to claim guarantees, as can the creditors of Article 13 of the General Party. This possibility will be more important, it is understood, when debts are owed, which, as experience shows, are usually the first victims of transformation processes or when transformation accompanies a restructuring of the staff. During the debate in the relevant Commission, the Deputy Minister for Economy and Development felt that these supplements could be made towards specialising in the form to be taken into account in protecting the interests of those who work. Article 10 defines persons who may be independent experts who will examine the draft Conversion Convention and report to the General Meeting or to the Partners, depending on whether the company is capital or personal. These are: Occupied accountants, audit firms registered in the Public Accounting Register and Controllers, certified valuers and class I taxable persons. There is no category of professionals who, on the pretext, also have knowledge and experience of negotiations, which require inventories and estimates of intangible and material things, values, rights and claims. I am referring to the lawyers who have also been certified as mediators. Given that the procedures for consulting and drawing up the relevant transformation contracts are not only depleted in tax matters, the experienced lawyer - mediator will be able to operate catalytically and offer significant benefits to the process of corporate transformation. As a result, it is certain that by bringing together all the individual arrangements in a single systemic legislation, it will facilitate the sustainability, consolidation and further development of thousands of enterprises, which, due to increased competition and the changing economic environment, are at a dead end. The new law will be the appropriate legal instrument for the resolution and development of many enterprises and for the creation of larger entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u38	Thank you. We are closing down - because one of our own-sponsored colleagues has asked not to take the floor - with Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Carras, from the Democratic Assent. Because I'm sure you'll need some more time, I'll put you instead of seven minutes ten, but at ten we close.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u39	Good, thanks. And because you give me time, Mr President, you will allow me, before I place the bill, to make a comment. The image of the Session refers me to an election period and not a short one. I see in the absence of many good colleagues who seem to be compelled to tour their constituencies. My parentheses are closing. I have also told the committee, Mr President, that always a bill concerning the form of companies is of particular interest and more interest to those of the legal persons who have a distortion in the direction of monitoring what is happening in commercial law. So it's the scientific ballot, I've said it and I'll repeat it. But I am thinking: in the current economic situation, will it be useful for its purpose? I say this for the reason that we are already moving towards the tenth year of crisis. The state of the Greek economy as much as it appears to have a weak growth, as the result proves to be stagnant. It is difficult to create new jobs for investments, and our rapporteur, Mr Constantinople, has said so, in the form of privatisation, the privatizations, the financing of Greek banks by foreign companies to buy them. Even the day before yesterday, Minister, the National Bank participated with a bond loan of 665 million to pay the price for the extension of the “Eleftherios Venizelos” airport contract. I won't do the summation now. Banking may be interesting for the bank, it may have a guarantee of payment, it may not "red" this bond loan ever, but it has a problem, you know, because they are deprived of resources from the real economy, the Greek one. An airport and especially the form of "Eleftherios Venizelos", with its ownership composition known - not to say it - and in particular with Canadian funds at the moment, as I remember, it can be financed by a bank abroad, unless the Greek economy does not provide the guarantees for the financing of the acquisition of a state-owned company or the extension of its concession. So what we have seen right now in the last three, four, and perhaps five years in the situation of companies is the violent breakdown. We do not follow the rules of transformation, we follow the rules of violent division: either through the implementation of the law on the liquidation of debited companies in operation - and I refer to the well-known n.4307 - I consider it to be a violent division, or even with the Banking Code, which has been subject to repeated amendments over the last three years. Why? In order to be able to sell the pieces, the remnants of the companies. In fact, these sales with the restructuring plans led to the removal of hundreds of millions of losses from the banks and even from sectors where no one expected it. All this needs to be taken into account, because - I personally am going to express - the Greek economy is still not in the process of development, and it is in the reverse. We all make good on growth, but we don't see it, we see a stagnation. I therefore fear that, instead of giving the capital of maintaining small and medium-sized enterprises, jobs, even lukewarm investments that will be required for the conservation of existing investments, have you considered, Mr Minister, the opportunity to gather companies, in the sense of mergers, to become large, some others that remain in Greece, and then their seats, tax administrations to travel abroad? We have many examples of avoiding taxation and insurance contributions to Greece. We've got too much. Fortunately, one last attempt - I will not say which company is, of course, - was voted against by the shareholders and this showed a resistance. But since we don't give incentives, what's the point? It is what I have said to the committee: if we have the possibility of motivating, of bringing such laws too. I will repeat that the bill is excellent, but I am afraid it will not be useful. Since we cannot, therefore, motivate tax, insurance, we cannot achieve the objective of creating larger businesses. I do not want to be tiring, but I shall necessarily repeat that I am afraid, I express the fear that bills of a similar nature will be a backdrop of business leaving abroad because they will create conditions by pooling them to go to the foreign banking system, to go to the large international stock exchanges and to leave our country. It takes a lot of attention to this point. Here again, there is the need for a referral, Mr President, which I have also made to the committee. I am making a comparison of the 1950s and 1960s with the decades that we are going through. At that time, Greece came out assembled by a Civil War and a World War, we then had the first development laws, for mergers, but we also had incentives to create limited liability companies, to create anonymous companies. These have been attributed, but on the way to the economic crisis they have become unreasonable. Today, then, we are still in a situation of economic crisis, because I must remind you that the memorandums may have come to an end, it may have been the three-year period of financing, but the conditions which are binding on our country remain, with the obligation to implement them. We are talking about surpluses, about things that put a loop in the Greek economy. If we do not solve the problem of the economy and, in particular, the problem of banks - it may not be a question of banking companies, Minister, because they have a different need for legislation, supervision, we will agree - if we do not see the banking system, which requires a bloodbath, we will not proceed. This is where I'm going to go off and say that the law on the protection of first residence expires in forty-eight hours. There is a lot to be said, there is going to be a piece of legislation, consultation of a great taxier, banks and institutions. Whatever the next piece of legislation, the scope of red loans must be cleared up. And the government had the opportunity, Minister, to postpone the tax. Because when it started to be cowardly - it is cowardly the postponement of the bank income tax in relation to the 2015-26 billion recapitalisation, I think it is, if I am mistaken, that you will correct me - and with the loan contract clause, that there will be a rationalisation of the delayed red loans, what have we achieved? We have succeeded with the inertia four years to make loans not by quality, by quantity, the interest and the outstanding balance, because they have remained for four years without any substantial intervention, the courts have not paid back. Here I would like to remind you that the day before yesterday there was also a volume of interna tionalism that speaks of a thousand five hundred eighty days, the time needed for a first degree trade dispute to be decided. This is where I want to fix them a little. It is not a thousand five hundred eighty days, it is less for trade disputes at least to the first degree. However, if they refer to trade differences in administrative disputes arising during or when administrative acts relating to either business creation or environmental conditions are adopted, the thousands of five hundred eighty days are short, Minister. We want ten years in the Council of State to end up having a decision. So we may want two and a half, maybe three thousand days to pass. With these considerations, therefore, I sum up and say: good legislation, good intentions, perhaps good intentions, but they do not match the current context. They do not match because they do not give the lead in incentives and support to small and medium-sized enterprises. We must also say this: labour-intensive operations no longer exist in Greece - so that we can remember the economic conditions on the left. We don't have work-intensive operations right now. There's an effort, even banks are closing shops, making voluntary exit programs to shrink in terms of staff numbers. Of course it is the technology that helps them in it. Therefore, since we do not have a labour-intensive business, in order to create a level of employment we need small and medium-sized enterprises, we must support small and medium-sized enterprises - I do not think that by transforming a peer into a heterogeneous EPE or an EPE into an EPE that we are solving the problem - we need to give incentives and let us leave a little further than that which concerns the large ones. I do not want to be verifiable, I would like to disprove this piece of legislation not to be a headline of concentration and departure for the outside business, in order to transfer their tax, administrative headquarters and, ultimately, our activities, and we to become instead of exporters of products, as we want, importers, as we will have with peaches, since we have spoken. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, your tolerance is too little, because I am aware of this. Producers, peach printers from northern Greece are trying to maintain a relatively reasonable level of exports. The whole world competes with them all, and there are examples of Greek companies that have now been addressed in Mexico, Brazil, that is to produce countries, to sell peaches and find closed doors, because the embargo on agricultural products to Russia continues. So, if we collect them, we have our reservations, as our rapporteur, Mr Constantinople, said. Thank you for your tolerance, in particular, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u40	It is now up to the Minister to give a little more time to answer the complaints. Immediately after that, the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Dendias, has asked for the floor, and then Mr Xydakis, and I suppose the other parliamentary representatives, too, will take the floor. The rapporteurs will have the right, if they so wish, to a short term. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try to be brief. The draft law we are debating today is a draft law in which we appreciate it very seriously, because it covers a great gap in our legislation on company transformations. I would remind you that we have recently proceeded with the revision of the law on public limited liability companies and of the EIA. We had promised that we would also bring the transformation bill. There are one, two more legislations, which are ready and which will be submitted immediately, concerning the supervision of businesses and GFCM - things that are linked and I will say next, because the subject has been mentioned - to have a comprehensive reform of company law and company framework. We therefore consider that we are covering a large gap. So far these issues have been dealt with mainly by case law and in many and in contradictory ways. We believe that we are solving a problem that is afflicting, employing and therefore contributing this bill to the normalisation of the market and to the formulation of a climate that is more friendly to the functioning of companies and to investment. Also, in the second part, on electronic invoicing, a universal agreement was found in any event on almost all sides. In addition to some exceptions, the large majority of the House agreed to the bill, because this also covers a need and is a step too important for the functioning of the market and for dealing with known problems in trade. And obviously this is part of a more general effort to digitise the functions of the state, which is a very important element, so that we can deal mainly with major issues of bureaucracy, tax evasion, etc. In the debate we have had in committee there has been very serious drafting of the bill, very important contributions have been made. I would like to thank the rapporteurs of the parties who have entered the detailed debate. Both Mr Athanasios and Mr Georgiadis entered with concrete proposals and improvements to the bill, but the general debate also helped us so that we had a good treatment. You will also have received the last text of legislative improvements, with which I believe we are most responding. There have also been interventions and placements of parties that I am trying to understand, but I do not think I can answer the logic of the bill. In particular, on the part of KINAAL today, Mr Constantinople has invoked a number of reasons why KINAAL will not vote on this bill, which, of course, has nothing to do with the bill. He referred to the 'Bridge' initiative, he referred to the surpluses, he referred to bank lending to some foreign companies that invest in Greece and go by saying. None of this has anything to do with the bill. So I will not go into the trouble of responding now, because I consider it irrelevant to our debate. There are many opportunities in this Chamber to have a general political debate. Now we're talking about a very specific bill. Any person who can contribute to this shall also contribute to it by making a different opinion. I didn't hear any different opinion. I have heard general political crises. So I'm not going to get into this conversation. I would like to make some clarifications on the remarks about things that have not been accepted. First of all, the tax system has said from the outset that it is a shortage. She'll be covered very soon. It does not affect the legal part of the transformations. But it is a necessary complement. At present, everything that has been done so far is true. Reference is made to the bill. There will be a direct deposit of a draft law, which will deal with incentives linked to transformations, not general real estate to businesses, because this is a matter of general economic policy. What we are talking about is complementarity, concerns incentives related to the transformations of companies. We are in agreement with the Ministry of Finance and, as I told you in the committee, the relevant bill will soon come. On matters related to scope, we have already answered that insurance companies, because they are anonymous companies and are also provided for by the directive, obviously fall within the scope of this law's insurance companies too. With regard to the following issues, a serious remark was made on the possibility of exempting from the obligation to report by the board of directors or experts on individual companies, as long as the shareholders agree that this contributes to or poses the risk of creditors being confiscated. Look, we thought about it. However, this possibility is also provided by the law on public limited companies resulting from the directive. So when this is the case for public limited companies, this could not be the case for smaller companies, for personal companies, that is to say, two measures and two weights. In this sense, we did not accept the comment on this exception. With regard to universal symptoms, in the case of conversion we have continuity of life. There is therefore no question of universal succession. The workers have mentioned - and rightly so - Mr Balommenakis. We told the committee we'd look into it. We did look into it in detail, but not by a large majority. We have also deliberately made reference to the question of workers, even though it is covered by a set of provisions. However, we also felt it appropriate to refer to this legislation and to refer to the relevant provisions. There is a framework for provisions of Union and national law, concerning the rights of workers and the possibilities they have. That's why we put the report in, and we're making the report. So this whole grid covers the issues you raised. In addition, workers in many cases also participate as creditors in this process. The rights of creditors are therefore also available. So we think we can't do anything more detailed. The reference to the general provisions plus the creditor's status, we believe, is fully covered by them. A question was also raised on administrative authorisations, that is to say, whether administrative authorisations in the case of mergers still apply. Obviously, we are also talking about administrative authorisations, subject, of course, to the regulatory frameworks and the role of supervisory authorities, whether the criteria for these administrative authorisations are met or not. Finally, an issue was raised about the clawback of pharmaceutical companies. We have made an effort to reach agreement, to clarify the matter with the Ministry of Health. We believe that there is no problem, because the companies involved in a merger have their obligations, they are obviously summed up and the new person that comes up will now have that to do so. I don't think there's any danger you mentioned, that we have some kind of increase in commitments. Regarding the time of the law, the forecast is to start from 15 April. Let's not wait. I believe that the other procedure has been completed on tax incentives. But if it has not been completed - which will have - we have many issues, because of the vacuum that existed in the area of transformations. We have many issues open, which do not allow us to extend much to the entry into force of the law. On the other hand, we are under pressure to solve problems that are still pending for both small and large companies. And now I come to the amendments. As far as the amendment on cannabis is concerned, I have explained that this is not something new. We won't be having the conversation again from the beginning. It is an issue that has arisen in the licensing process. It is necessary to clarify, because of the mixed nature of these investments, a clarification for areas that are highly productivity and for others. We repeat, however, that it is a matter of clarification on the authorisation procedure. Mr. Constantinople raised some issues. I repeat that the forecast and legislation in force to date is within a very strict framework. Investment interest there is a huge one. At the moment we have more than thirty-five files under way to license such investments. There is a large gap both on the world market and on the Greek market. We believe that the initiative we have taken is correct and will have very good results for the Greek economy. Today's amendment is a clarification and I repeat that it has come up with the needs of licensing. Finally, I come to Mr Kaklamani's amendment. About the same people we were talking about it and when we discussed the law on anonymous companies. There's a problem with the company type of RES. It tends essentially towards a process slowly not being used. There are virtually no new EIAs. They're the old ones. A large number of people are trapped in this shape and are trying to solve their problems. It had been put - and we talked about it - if we can make it easier by reducing the percentages for decision-making. What is now being proposed by the amendment - that is essential - is, at least in cases where large investment projects exist and a capital increase is required, to facilitate decision-making in the EIA. So, in this respect, there is a slight change in the majorities that are needed. That is the point of the amendment. In principle, that is what we have accepted. There will be an effort to improve, not to confuse itself with the rest of the bill and not to create problems for us, to put it into the other provisions, because it is essentially about amending the EIA law.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u42	Is he coming in?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u43	We'll get her in a little while. You'll see her. I think it's a good job. To complete it, to listen to the rest of the comments, and in the end we will see whether there is a need for something more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, too. As I said, the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Denkias, has asked for the floor. I'm calling him at the Step. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Xydakis will speak. I see Mr. Big-fashioned. He's in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, I have asked for the floor too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u46	You too, yes. You're the one who's ahead of Mr. Big-fashioned. Here, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor. Parliamentary representatives will also speak with a relative comfort.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin, Mr President, with your permission, with an important issue, but without legislation. It is about the natural disasters in Chania yesterday. I would like to express my sympathy, beyond the New Democracy, to the whole Chamber for those affected by these unprecedented phenomena. They tell me that climate change has come into being in such a way that forecast mathematical models now have little potential. Minister, I would like this if you would please, and I would like to draw your attention to it: I have the mandate of the President of the New Democracy to table an amendment, obviously overdue, which concerns this issue of Chania and which is a suspension of all the implementing measures, whether public or private, for a period which we will agree on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u48	I didn't hear you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u49	Let me say this again: we will put an amendment to you - we are preparing it - obviously late. I'm glad Mr. Balommenakis is here because he's a congressman of Chania. The amendment will cover the suspension of all implementing measures, whether public or private, of any form of auctions, seizures, accounts, etc. - for a period that we will agree - we will propose ninety days, three months, but that is not the point - in the patterns of regulation that had taken place in previous natural disasters - we have taken as the main model - so that there is a direct intervention of the Greek state in this matter. Because, if we wait for normal legislative function, that is to say that the House will meet again again, and so forth, it will be a week. And some things don't come back. Implementing measures shall not be retrospectively retroactive. So we think that the government will have no objection. And I think it would also have a sense of the House voting for such a vote, ladies and gentlemen, unanimously. It is not something that the New Democracy is doing as an initiative. It does not consider it to be a matter that is at risk of party exploitation. He's not seeking party exploitation. It seeks to relieve the wounded of something unprecedented. I'll get her for you in a while. I would ask, however, if you are kind, because it concerns, Mr Athanasios, the Minister for Finance, that the government has the relevant opinions. I say it again, it's time. It's not something we can leave for tomorrow or tomorrow. I have to tell you that I, when I entered the Chamber, looked to see whether the government itself has brought an amendment. The government, obviously in the need to deal with the problem, did not. Mr Balomenakis, I also rely on your embassies as Members of Parliament of Chania so that we can resolve this before the end of the meeting. And, if necessary, we should keep the meeting another five-minute or ten-minute open to vote on this, I think we can do that as well. I'm coming to the law now. I would add to what our rapporteur, Mr Athanasios, has said, that it is clear that this legislation is in the general sense that we are dealing with it positively. Of course there is the question, which is clear, and the rapporteur also acknowledged it, that there is no question of tax provisions. Minister, I do not know how you yourself have been involved, beyond your political capacity, in all of this. It's not negligible. Tax provisions, provisions on fees and all of this, in fact they can well cancel the application and usefulness of the best legislation. And all this must be made clear and not just tax, I say again, but total burdens. For example, I ask you: in case of mergers of companies for which a notarial document is needed and the notary document contains properties and has to be transferred, fees paid to the mortgage office or are not paid for in the mortgage office? If big business and large property are treated as a common contract, then it becomes extremely painful for the person who is trying to merge or break or move. So all this needs to be addressed in their detail. And that is why I think it is very right that the position of consensuals from the opposition, not the dissidents - I will make a small comment on the KINAL - of consentors to the idea and the greater number of provisions of the legislation that this legislation should have come and dealt with issues as a whole. This is how we will go into two fragmentary arrangements, which, even if they are governed - I do not believe - of the best of intentions, but they may still leave gaps and may cause too many problems. I must say that this piece of legislation - and I am sorry to say this - does not come within a framework of a consistent pro-business activity, which helps the Greek economy. The Greek economy is lagging behind in a total hostile treatment of the government towards entrepreneurship, which the word 'taxing' seems to be to a very large extent diligent. It is a policy that does not help - I think - competitiveness. I think we're falling again. We're in the fifty-seventh place. We lost four positions on the scale of the last exhibition of the International Competitiveness 2018-2019 of the World Competitiveness Forum. Generally speaking, I think that the Greek economy in the context of a government analysis is treated as a closed economy at the end of the 20th century and not as an open economy in a country of the European Union of the 21st century. In this context, innovation and new technologies and the linking of education to the labour market are also being viewed. So, in order not to get too much reasoned, a cocoon is obviously not going to bring any spring. In fact, here's half the cocoon. Because it seems the other half will come, in the Minister's opinion, a few weeks later. What would be necessary is for the government to be entrepreneurship friendly, to pursue a completely different policy. I want to finish - because I do not intend to go far - to raise another issue. It is a question of broader social policy. This Legislation does not apply to this legislation. However, the parliamentary representative always has to take a wider position on the issues of topicality. And I'm talking about the issue of widow's pensions. Minister, for us it is incomprehensible, even if, in view of the forthcoming elections, the government has spent a comprehensive policy on benefits and benefits and not real benefits. There's a difference. There are other benefits that have a long-term perspective, are part of a comprehensive economic plan and - if you like - through increased demand, on conditional terms, they can also offer the economy. And it is quite different that, in the face of elections alone, in order to provide the government - the government thinks so, we have the confidence that they will produce nothing, rather reaction - election benefits. There is, however, a clear and fair issue here, which concerns the issue of widow's pensions. You know that very well. The Treasury knows. It has been put in the Chamber by too many colleagues, particularly in the New Democracy, but not only in the New Democracy. The government for some strange reason has placed it in absolute isolation. It considers, in other words, that widow's pensions are something that has been reduced in the way - the unjust way - which has been restricted and must in no way revert to dialogue. It must in no way be restored, it must in any way be dealt with. We are completely opposed to that logic. I would like to end, Mr President, with your permission and with a comment on KINAL's positions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u50	You have plenty of time. You don't need my permission!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u51	I do. KINAL, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for someone strange - but clearly understood to everyone, I think, here in the Chamber - has been targeting New Democracy lately. For some strange reason, when the New Democracy says 'white', KINAL must say 'black'. When the New Democracy proposes a specific policy, KINAL must discover a conspiracy. When New Democracy suggests the self-evident, KINAL must express the view that this is something heterosexual and dark. And that was the position here of the rapporteur, extremely sympathetic to me, Mr Constantinople. I tried to keep an eye on his mind. And I'm talking in the first place. I am not saying the provisions which we may disagree on, that one thing is wrong or bad. And Mr Athanasios was placed in matters of nullity, nullity and impatient. There are other provisions. I'll tell you after an observation I have. But why is KINAL against the law? Let me get this straight. To understand whether we, too, are in favour of entrepreneurship, are wrong. What's their fault? Of course, the framework of the Greek economy as a whole, as the government is promoting it, is not what we would like to see. Of course! That's why we're opposition. That's why we're a different party. But in this particular matter of merger, division and absorption of companies with the least possible procedures, what exactly does KINAL want? Let me get this straight. Tomorrow morning, if he was talking to another government, what would he say? That this piece of legislation should be withdrawn, or does it tell us anything else? Because - you know - we in the New Democracy are watching them, but we have been watching them lately - I mean - and with a smile. Because they have invented other visas about Central Right Wings, which are supposed to formulate other thoughts, etc. These things aren't serious. And the existential anxiety of each party is respected, comprehensible, sympathetic, if you like. It cannot, however, be expressed as an aggression to another political area, which, in the end, is consistently doing its job. And we have said from the outset that when there are positive legislation, we will vote for them, perfect and complete! We cannot disagree with SYRIZA and the government to transfer them as consequences to the country and to Greek entrepreneurship. Greek entrepreneurship wants to liberalise the framework. This is the global trend. This is the European trend. We will help with our remarks, with our participation, improve the mistakes. However, this is a question which, in principle, finds us in agreement. I will make one final comment, Minister. It's a completely legal matter. It concerns Article 125, ‘Appropriate conversion of a heterogeneous company into a homogeneous company’. In the event of exclusion or exit from the partnership, I would suggest to my fellow Members that there should be a third paragraph underneath which, of course, says'reserved of the full responsibilities of the excluded partner'. Because, as it is formulated, without clarifying it and thus creating a gap, it makes it possible to interpret the conversion of the homogeneous and therefore unlimited liability into limited liability for the damage caused by creditors. Look at it a little. I think you'll see it, and I think I'm right about it, too. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Minister, please - I think it is a very serious issue and I think it is a sign for the Greek society - to agree on measures to support the inhabitants of Chania. And I am sure Mr Xydakis, too, who will speak after me, will take a stand on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u52	Thank you to the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr Nikolao Teddy. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr Nikolaos Xydakis has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much, Mr President. There's a couple of parties missing. It's okay. It's the Major Opposition present. First of all, as far as Mr Denktash's proposal is concerned, the Minister will also speak. It will be placed on whether it will be accepted. It is an amendment that has never been tabled. We don't have it in our hands.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u54	We're getting her now. We're writing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u55	We're waiting for her. There is no objection to the substance. We can move on. Nor will the burden for the Greek State be significant. Some entrepreneurs, farmers, livestock farmers, shopkeepers, households, who may have direct obligations in court, will be assisted. And I think we need legislation, precisely because they will appear before the courts. However, even if we do not have time to do so today, a bill from the Ministry of Culture is being discussed in plenary tomorrow. If we see and do not get the time today, there is a bill tomorrow, a plenary, and we will be able to take care of that. And with this bill, but also with others that have come from the Ministry of Development, the will and the drafting of the government for a wave of reasoned and calculated reforms is presented in order to modernise the entire production structure, facilitate healthy entrepreneurship and begin to give a breath to the Cylon, to the monster of bureaucracy that is facing the whole business world. We don't have much to add. I think the Major Opposition also criticized. It agrees, however, in general terms. I did not quite understand Mr Constantinople's criticism of KINAL. It's like she hasn't even read the bill. And that is why he is causing the remarks of the New Democracy. That's impressive. Major opposition, that is, broadly agrees and has individual objections. Elasson Opposition does not even come into the essence of the proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u56	It's not original.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u57	No, it has no opinion on the substance, but it has an opinion on the contents of the Centre and the Centre. Of course, there is space and a step forward here for political comment on developments, but the first job is legislative work, it is the responsibility we have towards the productive world and the economy and there with seriousness, documentation and arguments to judge the imported bill and to make counter-proposals. The generalities and charming, let's say, over general philosophical principles, which are not even philosophical, do not even make sense. New Democracy's colleague, Mr. Dendias, respected and sympathetic to political existential anxiety, but let us say something about what we have in front of us. You didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u58	But you're with the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u59	Sometimes, in other cases, there have also been constructive criticism and constructive proposals, which have been incorporated into the legislative work. At this time it has, I think, stopped all creative involvement with legislative work and production policy and we are entering the stage of defending the election tactics. It is your right, we simply see it and see it. On widow's pensions, Mr. Dendias said something. I think there has been an explicit assurance from the Secretary of State for Labour, Mr Petropoulos, that he sees it, that there will be regulation and, in any case, that Members of the Co-Police have said that there is a social disparity there. There is also pressure on the Vice-Presidents to regulate widow’s pensions that is fair, to show social sensitivity, but also to show a general household in the area of insurance payments in a more general context. We have nothing to add. I think we'll wait for the amendment if we can catch up with it today. Otherwise, the House has legislative work tomorrow. It has a plenary for a bill from the Ministry of Culture, and we will also expect the Minister to place himself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u60	Thank you Nicholas Xydakis, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. Mr Andreas Loverdos has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u61	I apologise to my colleagues who have not heard them - I have heard only Mr Xydakis - because he meets at the same time the Management Board of the Parliamentary Foundation for Parliamentary and Democracy, in which I represent the President of the Change Movement, Mrs Gennimata. I'll have to go back as soon as I'm done, because I haven't spoken. I heard Mr. Xydakis a little. I have also been informed of a revulsion of Mr. Treasury. I'm going into the draft law, making a review of its broad lines. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, before I enter these issues, to make a reference to a matter of foreign policy of interest to all of us. As a parliamentary representative, I can do this for one and a half minutes. The suggestions made to the United Nations Organization by the FYROM Foreign Ministry about how the use of the terms of the Presidencies Agreement will be made, I think, create a problem for the country. The concerns of the Opposition, when it did not want to take the responsibilities of the Ambassadors' Agreement, are true. Minister, everything we have pointed out and stressed on this very serious identity issue, Greece now finds it in front of it. Because, as the Prime Minister here wondered in an unrecognised way: 'But, I knew there was a problem', he said, 'the problem of the name. What do you now tell me about identities and languages?' And then he approached the fact of ratifying the agreement, so I see that the Maximos Mansion is also facing the consequences of the country's signature and the deprivation he has suffered to protest reasonably, where something bad about our interests is happening, because he has agreed. With our signature now and with our agreement any claim can be accepted. The suggestions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the neighbouring country are embodied in the agreement, reflect the agreement, copy the agreement. It is regrettable that this agreement with these problems gives basis to other processes, processes related to the discovery of minorities and so on. These developments are so simplified in time that neither one should be anxious to see that his views are being verified immediately, nor to ignore the fact that the historical depth of matters and the future of matters with this historical depth must be addressed in the light of national interests. If not, negative developments are ahead and we will suffer them. Now, Mr Xydakis, I beg your pardon very much, but four and a half minutes you have spoken from the twelve that you have had, and you have supported the draft law in a general sense that is good. With the same logic, a Member of the European Parliament can deal with the draft law with a phrase: 'It is not good' or 'it is negative'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u62	I'm not a rapporteur, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u63	Yes, you are a parliamentary representative. Here, then, we need to see from the opposition or the coalitional reason what is presumed to be a major argument. If this major argument leads to a vote, that is a straightforward political position. You, Mr Dendas, have said that with a smile you are facing our existential struggles as a party, with a smile and Mr Samaras, and you were all facing the country's crisis in 2009-2010. Crisis you created. With a smile you are now dealing with our own, which is supposed to be existential struggles, when with New Democracy in too many cases in Parliament, and at its most intense moments - in any case, I do not want to say as the people say - but you are 'discussing'. You're very few here. On the major issues, by a group of seventy-five people, you are two and three times less. What's your political reason for a politician? Politics of luxury, giving all the thanks to the government to take walks in stages and in matters that had to find very strong resistance. Well, not to us. Although we have a smaller parliamentary group - nineteen and twenty Members - we have a very strong opposition, and we have created multiple topics than you, despite your strength. Now, entrepreneurship in Greece from which, Minister, it is up to our future, because you and everyone when we talk about the primary surpluses by the end of 2022, all on whatever issue we discuss, but as a headline of all the issues, that is, the primary surpluses, whether we discuss red loans or we discuss the abolition of bureaucratic obstacles to the economy, whatever we discuss, we conclude that, in order to overcome the difficulties of primary surpluses and all the individual issues, we need so-called growth rates. We all say so. The predicted growth rates are not enough. We all say that. And while we are all saying this, when it comes to judging on the basis of what we are proposing - opposition - or what we are doing - the government - we are passing under the bar. We're judging negatively. Our witness, as opposition parties, or experience so far. Let's go see what the economy needs today to achieve shocking growth rates that exceed 2% and touch 4%, 5%, perhaps more, if possible. It's hard, but up to 4% and 5%, you can go. The problem with the Greek economy is its bureaucracy. Her paperwork? Oh, no. It is from: (a) the one being transferred to the economy from the bureaucracy of the public administration; and (b) the bureaucracy of the structure and administration of justice. These are the two big problems. They say that governments must help the economy and not be like Mr Tsakalots who, apart from his cute words, makes revenue and expenditure accounts in national accounts without being interested. I have never heard him refer to the issues of the economics of the Greek economy, namely business, the private economy. While we need something else, do we have finance ministers who make national accounts and expose us here and do not what? No, to give direction to the economy - we do not have a directed economy here, we have a free economy - but to relieve it from the shaping of bureaucracy. About your licenses: you praised them. Because we had been following and abolishing the authorisations of New Democracy in 2013, which we were in the government, but this legislative initiative had no hope of success in practice, and in 2013 the effort of yours, even 2016, was a minor result. Why? Because you may dismantle the word "licensing", but they come from behind a number of factors concerning the intervention of the administration in the economy, which capture the economy and do not allow it to be released. That's the first. I'm on my way to Banking Law. That's a very relevant issue about today. You brought 2016 or 2017 - I do not remember - legislative initiative, even adaptation, to Union law. We have told you that it is so bureaucratic and this new text, which in practice the economic dead are equally dead, and that the bankrupt is considered to be the one who is bankrupt and therefore out of the economy for some time, but opportunities for recovery are being given to him. Without such a change in our bankruptcy law, nothing can go ahead. Annulled people in their economic lives once and for all are canceled. Your bankruptcy law was another failed attempt. Other issues relating to assistant judges, mobility in the leadership of public administration, none of which has brought them as legislative initiative or even where things are too hard, for example, the so-called exclusive public deadlines that do not exist, as well as whether the legislator adopts them in the Constitutional Review. You have not even made a proposal there relating to administration and nothing to do with justice. You are now coming here to move a title of hope. I'll take it. It is an effort that mobility in the business sector is trying to help it by the draft law, under this title. What do we mean by'mobility'? Conversions, divisions, mergers. That's a very good goal to get in there to make it easier. When you get into the many provisions of the draft law on the subject, because the'second section' is a few adaptations to a directive, the main torso, almost the sole, the whole body of the draft law is related to mobility in the field of all businesses, all forms. What is it that you're approaching as the main critic? Minister, since this bill is published and it starts to apply, its first results will begin to be produced. I am warning you - the verb is not threatening - that there is no possibility of immediate application. It is not just his faulty non-connection to tax reforms that you promise for later time. Mr. Constantinople told you, right, that you'd be government? Do you have anything ready to warn us about this? You didn't say. Is the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance ready in two months to launch a legislative initiative, as you said or not? We do not know in what direction. However, as you say, if this change is not linked to changes in tax legislation, it has little chance of implementing it. That's the first. Secondly, Mr Karras' position in our parliamentary group was very characteristic here, but, Mr Athanasios, as rapporteur for the Staff Response, I heard you today, they understood how difficult the provisions of this draft law have been. The involvement of administration and justice in the course of business mobility will only give rise to problems. You know very well that if one of these problems, which is a nature of administrative, rationalisation attempt, speeding up procedures, is toward justice what delays are produced, despite the honest efforts of the judges, from the material which the courts have and from the problems that the country has in its infrastructure. So we appreciate that, as Mr Carras said, if any business would like to use this draft law, only in the direction of wishing to leave the country would it be useful. In other words, we believe that in the field of act, which verifies or cancels our political arguments, this draft law has no scope and we do not want to apologise to the society of the economy, saying that we supported something that had no scope for implementation, but what to do, had a good title and thus supported it. In your speeches - I have not been able to hear you today, I apologise, but I have read what was said in the Standing Committee - you have not demonstrated the points that things are leading to accelerating, and so everything that arises from the provisions is verified by your speeches, that is to say, our concern that you do not go ahead with things, but that you repeat a correct legislative initiative in the title, but that is to say that the content of a very serious legislative initiative is null and void on a very serious subject, but on methods and ways not appropriately, you repeat once again and, therefore, we cannot support it. In that sense, what my colleague, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, said, I am not going to support the draft law, and that is the explanation of our refusal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u64	We invite the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Ioannis Sahinidis, for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Fortunately, the Greek people are watching and they can see what is really happening in this country. However, what one does not clearly say is whether in addition to the directives which come from the European Union on the harmonisation of Greek law with European law, there have been instructions on the harmonisation of the parties. We have been following a number of uncertainties earlier between the Government's Parliamentary Representative and the Civilian Representative of the Vice-President. After all, we have become accustomed to getting serious bills together to disagree with some secondary importance. The only development you have brought is that of the subsidised policy you implement to convince Greek taxpayers that we have now exceeded the memos. Benefits, therefore, of all kinds and all kinds. But will anyone in this Chamber be able to explain how and where these allowances are paid? Of the non-existent investors you have brought to Greece? From the nonexistent extraction of hydrocarbons and oil? From the primary production sector, which you and all the previous ones have destroyed? From the revenue that you have not collected from the lists of shame, the known scandal lists? Minister, we have repeatedly heard, both from Ministers and from your MPs and also from your government officials, about the well-known lists. Everyone remembers very well, the Greek people have repeatedly heard of the list of Lagard, Boryans, illegal enrichment, offshore London, Hong Kong, lists for every city and every country. You told us that some fines have been made. But what has not been said several times in this Chamber is exactly what has been collected and how many have you put in prison. I guess there's a cover-up because a coroner's eye crow doesn't work. But explain to us, anyway, where you will find the money so that you can continue with this subsidy policy. Who works in this country to produce wealth? Where does the revenue come from the black work of illegal immigrants? From the businesses and plants that keep shutting down? From farmers and farmers who have left the countryside and migrate? Where and from who? From the sale of public property? You and the previous governments have promoted tax evasion as a unique means of survival for Greek citizens. You have promoted and defend the retail smuggling of illegal immigrants. What made me a terrible impression, however, and I shall mention in detail the amendment, which you have had the courage to bring into today's draft law. There is one question here: How much cannabis medicinal products have been consumed in drawing up this amendment? For the first time I have seen a party enter into the process of marketing its ideology. So Amendment Nos 1965 and 42. By simply reading the explanatory statement, references are made to all the activities of cannabis cultivation and processing, to efficiency and quality stability. Reference shall also be made to the environmental impact of the processing section and low nuisance, with a minimum environmental impact mark from waste management. You should also prove your environmental sensitivity. However, the explanatory statement states that the above provision also serves the constitutionally-established principle of sustainable development by serving and developing objectives for the conservation and conservation of agricultural land of high productivity. But where is the boom of this amendment? Certainly in the explanatory statement, but in the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, which states it clearly. And you know why? For in the first paragraph, all the substance and the truth of this appalling amendment are described. So what does paragraph (a) say? This amendment redefines the areas in which the varieties of the species Cannabis Sativa L may be cultivated and processed, with a tetrahydrocannabinol content - of the known THC - more than 0,2%. Installation of an automatic seller, in fact, we recently had for Indian cannabis products and in Pesmazoglou stove. A few days ago, the New Democracy also showed what I mentioned earlier that it is entirely consistent with you, because the Chief of the New Democracy himself has said that they are in favour of making places where it will be controlled. The problem with drug addicts, ladies and gentlemen, is not the area of controlled use, it is the fight against use. Projects need to be carried out so that these people can be dismantled. But what are the conclusions from this amendment? Firstly, the increase in the content of tetrahydrocannabinol above 0,2% means the well-known results that we have mentioned when you have reinstated the vote of the pharmaceutical cannabis in a previous draft law. What's going on? When processed and baked, the increase in tetrahydrocannabinol is such that it becomes a psychotropic substance, and even in consumption by young children by a biscuit or cake their parents will buy may result in severe poisoning. Conclusion two. The applications for cannabis cultivation have obviously exceeded all your expectations and, in the interests of satisfying your investors, you are increasing the areas where it will be permitted to grow, imagining an infinite chassis culture or perhaps hoping for revenue from chassis tourists. Third conclusion and basic. If you had the same sensitivity, the same passion and the same zeal as other agricultural crops, we would certainly have solved the issue of food self-sufficiency and the primary production sector. If you wish, ladies and gentlemen, to return our youth, who has migrated for a better life, if you want the countryside to live, if you want a sustainable and innovative primary production sector, simply do the Golden Dawn programme for farmers and farmers. Give farmers incentives, give them back the smile and the appetite for work that you have stolen in recent years. Remove taxes and duties on fertilisers, seeds, plants, agricultural machinery and buildings. Reduce taxes, reduce insurance contributions, reintroduce duty-free oil to farmers and farmers. Give guidance with information seminars on the international supply and demand for agricultural and livestock products. Subscribe small vertical family units. Show and promote all Greek products through our embassies and consulates and put them in charge to every embassy and consulate in order to be able to do so. Last and most important of all, with this in our view you should start, give out the debts of farmers and farmers, just as you have done with the banks, your parties, the canals and the germs. And if a wicked man finds himself in this Chamber from your so-called constitutional bow to say that we are plundering, I will answer the following: In the relatively recent past, a bad nationalist government had considered it fair - and it had done so - to give the debts of farmers and farmers, and you are wondering about the resonance we have as Golden Dawn on farmers and young people. You will soon see this work in the other professional and social groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u66	We invite the last of the Parliamentary Representatives, Karathanasopoulos Nikos, Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, I take the occasion of the debate, which began on the occasion of the forthcoming vote, as the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy said, to table an amendment for the flooding in Crete and Chania. But "it's too late for tears, Stella," we'd say. And that's why? Because this whole situation, which these days are experiencing in Chania, Crete and elsewhere, is not just a result of the weather phenomena, but is a result of the development model that you are defending both the New Democracy and the Government but also the other parties. A model of growth, which "beats" labour rights, which sacrifices the satisfaction of people's needs in the altar of profitability. Thus, it also sacrifices the protection of human life and the property of the popular strata. For the disasters in Chania and Crete in general, neither is it our root cause nor the God who hates us. It's a repetitive phenomenon, so it can't be a coincidence. We had the floods in Mandra with the tragic results, disasters throughout Greece by flooding phenomena and landslides, in Elias, Achaia, in Corinthia, in Aitolokarnania, in Argolida, in Evia and elsewhere and now in Crete. Of course, the cause is the weather phenomena, which may also be extreme, but above all it is the enormous shortage of the necessary anti-military infrastructure. This is the main problem, that is, infrastructure that shields people's property from extreme weather. From this point of view, of course, the government is going on infrastructural, a series of infrastructure, and it is also taking place in connection with the work carried out by the Ministry of IPTO, for the infrastructure. Recently, just a week ago, the Minister, Mr. Spirtzis, had gone to Heraklion, and there he was taking pictures of wide smiles in Kastelli for Heraklion's new airport. However, it was well-known and they had warned of the enormous deficiencies that exist in Crete as a whole in the issues of anti-military protection. But there is no interest in that. One will say: "But for all this to be done, Greece needs money and is in a budget sigh because of the memoranda, the fiscal consolidation it needs to do, the primary surpluses. So I am afraid that the works must be done and after a hierarchy." But here, we must remember that Greece has also been made available from the money of the Greek people and the rest of the workers, tens of billions of euros from European funds over the past years and over the past decades. Where'd that money go? What infrastructure was done for anti-military protection, for earthquake shielding? None at all, just some patches and retrospectives, since the effects of flooding or earthquakes had emerged. This is precisely because both the governments - the former and the present - all the governments together - and the regional authorities and the municipal authorities have had other priorities. What priorities did they have in Crete, for example? How to meet the needs of the tourist capital and of other parts. That is why they gave tens of billions of euros to such infrastructures, gave tens of billions of euros from the investment laws to create huge hotel units, leaving the island at the mercy of weather phenomena. From this point of view, of course, the European Union itself, which sets out the guidelines for financing both European funds and within these guidelines, is also part of the Government's Public Investment Programme. What are these directions? They are precisely the ones that serve the needs of business groups and not the people. In fact, there is the obscure directive of the European Union on cost-benefit. So, whatever infrastructure is done, it has to be measured by what a multiplication effect it will have. From this point of view, of course, anti-floating phenomena do not have a multiplier effect on the profitability of business groups, such as other infrastructures, for example private roads, private airports, private ports and a number of other infrastructures through which capital can raise multiple profits. This is the cause of the problem. And now you're acting to support who? Are you flooding them and giving some crumbs of crumbs when concrete measures are needed here? We say very clearly what it takes. Firstly, immediate measures to protect human life and the health of flooded areas. Secondly, direct and secure restoration of access to road transport, electricity, water supply and telecommunications in the excluded areas under the responsibility of the State. And thirdly, a direct record of the damages they have suffered and compensation to 100% rather than some pentokills that they give to shut down some holes that are not enough. In other words, all the damage caused by these floods must be restored. From this point of view, therefore, and from this example here and from the tragic effects of the floods, it seems clear that two logics conflict. What are the two confronting logics? The one logic that substantiates everything in how the needs of capital, business groups and urban order will be met. In this context, there is no room for satisfying the people's needs for anti-military protection, for earthquake shielding, for improving the position of workers and other people's layers. The other logic is the one that puts above all and first of all the satisfaction of the people's needs and not the capitalist gain and in this logic subtracts all the productive potential, which your logic many of these ruins, all the productive powers, through a central design that just can exploit all production capacities and forces, with the aim of a growth that will first and foremost satisfy the people's needs. That is what we are talking about, and that is something that comes from every issue that it is concerned with. In fact today this bill, the government's legislative initiative, is nothing more than another link in the shaping chain of an even more favourable environment. And the criticism of the other parties - all the other parties, from the Golden Dawn to the New Democracy - is to speed up this process of creating a more favourable environment. They tell you about incentives, tax incentives for businesses, about combating bureaucracy, about facilitating investment, about specific spatial frameworks. So where do we subjugate everything? The needs of the investors, as you call them, to the needs of business groups. This very favourable framework is that the working class and the popular layers of our country pay for, with this unprecedented attack on their livelihoods, on labour rights, on the fulfilment of public needs, on health, on education, on their social needs, on welfare, on addressing the impact of floods and earthquakes. That is why there is also a broad consensus in this logic, namely the logic of the one-way approach to capitalist development, which is also dangerous to satisfy people's needs. From this point of view, it is clear, Minister, that we as a JRC will oppose this logic, that is to say, the logic that all is subdued to the needs of capital and we will call on the workers to develop their action and their intervention in the face of this logic, the logic of stability, the restoration of market confidence in the Greek economy, because that is precisely the cause of the sufferings of the working class and the rest of the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u68	Thank you Mr. Nikos Karathanasopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece. Mr Pitsirlas has the floor to place himself on the legislative improvement which he has submitted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u69	I shall simply table a legislative improvement in Mr Kaklamani's amendment. We have reached agreement with Mr Kaklamani. It's a deal. We are simply tabling it so that colleagues can take it into account.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u70	It also came a short time ago, so I did not submit it earlier, a very small formal amendment concerning the Organisation of the Ministry of Economy and Development, the appointment of a representative to the OECD, which deals with the standard criteria. It's very...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u71	He needs a study.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u72	He doesn't want a study. I'll tell you where he's talking. It refers to three things. The first is in the time these representatives will be appointed each time. We say that they are formally defined from 1 August to 31 August. Secondly, formal qualifications should be required. As far as language is concerned, it is only the excellent knowledge of English, which is the working language. The previous provision said something confused or English or French, while the official language is English. Finally, not to be considered...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u73	I'm sorry, would you now bring this amendment five minutes before we finish?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u74	Wait a minute. Now came an issue that needs to be settled. Nor is it considered that the time of secondment as a time for a genuine public service to be a head of department. The person who goes there, in other words, for the time he goes, is not considered to have worked as head of department. There's no such thing as a privilege. This is removed from the applicable Regulation. So, in terms of language, in terms of the degree - doctoral and in terms of service time. Read the...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u75	And why are you in a hurry to do it now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u76	Because there are some - read it, please - ending terms and we should see...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u77	Do they end today?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u78	They end up in the next few days and have to be extended for a short time. Look at her and we can talk about her later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u79	But five minutes before the end?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u80	So the legal improvement relates to Mr Kaklamani's amendment, for which we have come to an agreement. Look at this last amendment that comes in for the organization and I will finally make a little comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the educational program "The King and the Revolution" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty students and students as well as two teachers from the 1st General High School of Alimos. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Those who want a short dentistry from the rapporteurs or specialists can speak now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u82	I beg your pardon, Mr President, are you tabling the amendment without having read it and asking us to make a short position?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u83	You haven't even given it to us!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u84	Now he's sharing right now. He'll share.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u85	He should have shared!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u86	Now they gave it to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u87	It will be shared and you will speak as long as you want to do the amendment. Until he's shared, Mr. Constantinople...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u88	Now they gave it to us. Is that her?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u89	That's her, yeah. You've got her.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u90	I'm sorry, is that a process? Are you approving this procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u91	Look, a little...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u92	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u93	One, one, please. Mr Constantinople, the Minister said that for some reasons which you will see in the amendment, he should come today.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u94	How's today?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u95	He also said that the elements of the amendment were related to Mr Kaklamani's amendment. Isn't that right, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u96	The amendment had been tabled in good time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u97	Yeah, obviously. It is important. Look at it, put it on it, if you have it in your hands...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u98	No, we're not! What are you talking about, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u99	Mr President, you must give the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u100	Is it serious what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u101	You should have rejected it, Mr President. It's ridiculous what's happening right now, no matter whether it's serious or not. It's ridiculous. Tell the Minister that these things are not done. Bring her another day. Does it end, in 91' an amendment 'Kodak', normal photography? What are we talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u102	So let the parties be placed. Here, Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u103	Here the Minister brings an amendment five minutes ago, signed by all the ministers. He hasn't told anyone. You are asking us to read it - let us interrupt the plenary to read it - and decide, because the Minister says that there are a few small issues. SYRIZA's crusader will be again! I say to you this: it is unacceptable that you as President of Parliament - the government can do whatever it wants - accepts it. Of course, I hope that the New Democracy will react to this. You agree to vote on an amendment that cannot be read, instead of bringing it tomorrow. The sensitivity of Mr Xydakis, who spoke to us before and taught us lessons of democracy, is great to vote for an amendment that has not been read! You must not accept it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u104	Good. I have to say to the Minister that, in yesterday's Conference of Presidents, this issue was raised with the last-minute amendments and we agreed to ask the Secretary-General of the Government and the Ministers, the amendments to be tabled to the bills, to be tabled at the beginning of the procedure. I would like you to investigate, Minister, if this amendment can come tomorrow, with the deadlines.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u105	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u106	Good. The matter is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u107	Can I have the floor, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u108	It's over. It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u109	After a rapporteur spoke...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u110	But the matter was resolved during the procedure. Are we going to talk about this now...?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u111	We want to observe something.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u112	Here you go, check it out, Mr. Panayotare.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u113	The Minister claimed that it was at the last minute and there are signatures of four Ministers. These four ministers were here and they put on their signature a little while ago? No, obviously something else is happening. This is an amendment - 'Kodak' normally photographic. That's what I had to notice, because he told us he's here now. Is there four ministers, Mr. Drasakis, Mr. Chakalotos, Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulos, here? Is he in the building? Is he here in the streets? No, of course not!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u114	All right, that's over. If there are secondary periods from the rapporteurs...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u115	I would like to speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u116	Soon, I imagine, Mr. Xydakis. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u117	Yes, Mr. President. In relation to the amendment, it has no particular difficulty. I accept, like the Minister, that he should go to the plenary tomorrow, where we have legislative work. However, it is a typical upgrade, an upgrade, a modernisation of the formal qualifications for posted to the OECD delegation. There are no evil or traps or photographs. It is a very simple provision, which modernises and upgrades formal qualifications. In other words, there is no need to create any impression that the role of the Bureau will be degraded. The President rightly said that these issues were raised in the Conference of Presidents yesterday and a solution is given. I would remind you that the President of Parliament yesterday in plenary on amending the Rules of Procedure - a working procedure which results in the upgrading and codification of the Rules of Procedure - incorporates specific regulations, which were latent and secret - was attacked by Mr Loverdos, who is currently reproduced in the press and in the channels, saying three lies, which were destroyed in the next ten minutes when the President explained. And this unfavourable impression of the legislature and of parliamentarianism remains. He said - let us say - that the Board of Directors does not run the House and the President responded - and unfortunately it is not replicated by everyone - that, precisely with this amendment, the amendment to the Rules of Procedure is explicitly integrated into the institution being governed by the Board of Directors. There was no report. He told me about the recruitments he made four hundred recruits. Desperate lie! The President replied - and this is not reproduced - that fifty-two people in the cleansing sector who were under contract with the contractor were integrated into contracts in the House, and forty-five years a fixed-term contract was concluded. No one permanent! Terrible impressions are being created, which also degrade our work. And the third thing Mr Loverdos said - and it is written in the Minutes - is that in the report on King Ferraios the President or some of these neo-communists - as they are told - put the 'ECON - King Ferraios' in the report. No falseer! The handmade posters of the “Ring Ferraeus” riots, without the ECON alone of the dictatorship, which, the entire group of 1969, was arrested, imprisoned, tortured, exiled, and suffered the grief as a follow-up to this great resistance, the great spirit, the King Ferraus. One fell. Mr. Loverdos didn't make it up to you. He said 'I didn't say it' or 'I said it once'. And it leaves the shadows not only on the President's face but on the whole in Parliament, which upgrades, codifys and modernises all Parliament's regulatory framework, giving a lesson of transparency, rationalisation and modernisation. And the shadows stay. In the same way, there is a fuss. I accept it as well, and the Minister accepted it, and the Bureau accepts that it can go tomorrow. There's no photo or evil or trap. There's nothing! It formalises and upgrades the qualifications of the Greek mission's people to the OECD. Nothing more like that! So let's take this tomorrow, but let's stop this demagogy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u118	Thank you. Before we move...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u119	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u120	Here, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u121	Mr President, I would like to speak on another point. I don't know if the last one is over. And before, on the presidency of Mr Kaklamanis, I was placed and said that at the request of Mr Mitsotakis, the New Democracy will table an amendment on the issues of relief for those affected in Chania. And this amendment has come now. In essence, it is a similar amendment to earlier amendments and earlier regulations, which have been voted on for such natural disasters. We have expressed the hope that it will receive the universal acceptance of this House. We do not claim a party benefit from this amendment. We simply condemn the relief of the affected. I am told that the amounts mentioned are the same as those that the government has legislated in Eye, Minister, and the rest are suspensions, again with the specific regulation of the implementing measures in Eye.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u122	Now it's a matter of what we're doing with her.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u123	Mr President, I think it is not the same issue. I think, in other words, that the whole Chamber takes on and understands that the issue is far from being exploited. Please ask my colleagues' opinion, but since the beginning of my position, I have not tried to seek to appear as a party position...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u124	No, we're not talking about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u125	I say this because I think it is Parliament's duty to deal with things when they happen and I stop here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u126	I will agree, but now it's submitted to the services. In other words, this very substantial amendment could have been tabled earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u127	It's five pages, Mr. President. The explanatory statement also had to be taken from Matti, so that there was no idea that we were trying to do something else. Let us be clear. Not all of this is done by God. I want to be honest. I thought the government would already have it ready and put it to the vote, but the government is now demanding...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u128	The Minister has the floor to facilitate the process and to achieve a result.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u129	May I give it to you, Minister, or may I testify to her?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u130	You should testify to her properly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u131	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u132	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u133	I have contacted the Treasury and have already been told that they have been dealing with this since this morning, that a decision is being taken on this matter. It is not certain that legislation is even needed. As the Ministry of Finance informed me, there will be a decision to suspend the necessary measures as a whole. Therefore, we should reserve to see the Ministry of Finance's decision and to make a better consultation with you, and if we have to come back sometime tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u134	If you agree, Minister, I would say tomorrow with the other amendment, that is very soon, because it is urgent.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u135	Tomorrow at ten he has legislative work.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u136	He has legislative work, so...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u137	I told you that the information I have is that the Ministry of Finance is already moving in this direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u138	So we're going to follow this process.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u139	What about the last one?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u140	The previous one, obviously, and we agreed and closed the matter. I do not want to repeat what Mr Xydakis said. Just read the amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u141	He has differences, it's not like Mr. Xydakis said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Athanasios, read her carefully. The previous one was in trouble. That is not what it has, but we agreed not to debate it now, so we will bring it tomorrow or tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u143	Before we proceed to the vote, is there any colleague who wants to give a second thought?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u144	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u145	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u146	I'll say a few words to close the procedure. First there was a well-founded debate on a sound discussion in a climate of understanding and productivity. It is important that we highlight two facts and, in my view, this is an example of good legislation. The first is that there is an assent of all social actors and producers and not only assent, but also recognised their own contribution to this legislation. The second is that the Minister has accepted a number of concrete interventions in counter-population. Some forty-two to forty-five legislative improvements have been made, and all this is in a spirit of a good understanding of dialogue and legislative initiative. From this climate for a reason incomprehensible to me, KINAL has been excluded. The JRC has a consistent attitude and has ideological differences in entrepreneurship issues, but the KINAL was, in fact, a surprise for us, because it was essentially absent from the process, it did not take place until the last minute. At the last minute today, about half an hour ago, we learned that we would vote against this bill. What I have to note is that we are rather entering a new political phase for this political area, where from the phase of self- marginalisation in which it has taken place, it is now looking for a departure strategy, distinguished by a withdrawal. While we are discussing a draft law on company transformations, the debate on surpluses and the accusation to us that we have accepted surpluses of 3.5%, from political areas that have accepted surpluses of 7.5% for decades, is not without them. At the same time, our commitment is firm, that the surpluses should be smaller in the country's budget, and we have been able to have surpluses of 3.5% for three consecutive years, so we are talking safe, and we can have them by 2022. In any case, it is our strategic aim that this 3.5% should be further reduced, and as long as there are international conditions and internal conditions to achieve this, it is, it is, and remains, our strategic targeting and we therefore continue to insist on it. The amendment that has been tabled to enable investment to be made in cannabis areas in general is in the right direction. It's nothing new. It does not motivate us to go to first-choice and high-quality fields, but it is only allowed there, obviously, because these are issues that arise from reality. At the same time, it is important that, because the cultivation of hemp and its industrial production - I am talking about the pharmaceutical industry - is closely interwoven, that is, the area of agricultural production as well as industrial production - and that is why it is being drawn up and specified in concrete terms. We don't offer anything new. This is what we are dealing with, so that there are no stumbling blocks for the forthcoming investments, because it is indeed a very important area of interest to us, because it opens up great potential for development. There was also a request on the part of Officerial Response with perseverance, I would say. We have recognised from the outset that, in fact, tax incentives are quite important but they are complementary to this legislative initiative, that is to say, we are not proposing transformations and changes in companies with an incentive to taxation. We are proposing the transformations, the facilitation and the establishment of a comprehensive legislative framework to facilitate these companies, namely, to facilitate real entrepreneurship. The incentive, that is, is to facilitate entrepreneurship and institutional shielding of these upcoming transformations. The tax incentives come down, they are supplements and, above all, they are supplements to reducing the cost of transformations that are required on the basis of the reality of the economy, and not to result as an incentive for transformations. So we have to say on this that the tax, which comes and committed itself to it, will complement and solve problems arising from the necessary transformations. One last thing: my dear companion, Mr Balomenakis, also - I think the JRC - made a position on safeguarding workers' rights, on issues arising after company transformations. This intervention is legitimate. We believe that we have anticipated this process, so we cannot imagine anything further. Article 12 provides, in essence, for all labour law applicable in the cases of transformations. The rights and knowledge of workers for possible transformations are data and come from labour law. We refer to it in Article 12. So we believe that we have legal certainty on the question of workers' rights, and there is no question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u147	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u148	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u149	Mr President, I had informed him that he was meeting the Management Board of the Foundation for Parliament and Democracy and I had to go. In my absence, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative attacked me for something that happened yesterday, was discussed here for more than two hours and was discussed today at the institution's meeting. He didn't do it. But after he did, I have to answer him again as far as I am concerned, but I have to. I have a parliamentary duty to do this for those who listen to us. First of all, his arithmetic was wrong. He said that I said three lies - in fact what a barbaric word'lie' - while he said two arguments, which I shared and which were verified.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u150	Three, I mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u151	The first argument, Mr President, is that a report on King Ferraios should not interfere with current political issues, and it was wrong not yours, but it was a scientific error to be within the posters of the report from a poster of the 'ECON King Ferraios', who were withdrawn before the opening of the report, but we had seen them and photographed them, and on the other hand to remain posters of the 'Ferraio King' of 1969 on the occasion of a demonstration by Petroulas Memorial of Resistance. That was right. However, it did not fit in a report on King Velestinli to claim - let us say - the current minister is also his descendant. We are all descendants of these people. It was wrong to refer to an organisation and not to refer to others, such as for example to the anti-FIFG. The second was about the recruitments to the foundation. Fifty-five organic positions, while there was no such provision, were a luxurious reference, interpreting in too many ways and in connection with the practice of recent years. The numbers of extra recruitment since 2015 and then at the end of the meeting appear to be two: Or a hundred thirteen as the majority says, or a hundred fifty as we say. Again, it is about forty hires a year that is inconsistent with the era but is in line with a more general policy of posted employees of SYRIZA. That's what we said yesterday. We've been through it. We've been through it. We're crashed. Perhaps the conflict also had a bad look that we did not want. We got the words back. And today, my colleague, has come to repeat them. I think he should think about it himself.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u152	Mr Charalambos Athanasios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to refer to the reservation Mr Loverdos and Mr Constantinople had about the difficulty facing the courts in interpreting the provisions. Indeed, it is a bill, Mr Loverdos, very large, which has specific provisions and concepts. I believe, however, that our courts will find their way and simplify them. But to date, things have been more difficult, because our law did not foresee all forms of transformation...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u154	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u155	...and were forced by the courts either on the grounds of the identity of the legal word or because it was the same subject of the companies transformed - their purpose was to make misinterpretations. This was called the abuse of transformation, 'drug transformation'. While we had quite a capable arsenal with regard to conversions, we did not have enough for mergers and divisions. We had mergers between, however, this type of company. We didn't have any different companies. So we had no anonymity merger with an EIA. We had no gang merger with a heterogeneous or an EIA. These courts were abusively regulating them. So today's law - and that is why we are defending ourselves, because it will help the country's development - comes to regulate these issues with all the problems that exist. I said my reservations too. I can't say it's a perfect piece of legislation, but he'll find his way from the courts. Minister, we are pleased about the legislative improvements you have put forward. You have tabled twelve new legislative improvements. Of these nine are in line with what I said in my speech. These, of course, concern Article 19, which we shall vote on, Article 21, Article 38, Article 71, Article 115, Article 117, Article 147 and Article 154. But we are not going to vote on Article 20, Article 72 and Article 116, which is similar. One relates to mergers and the other to divisions, because you have, in fact, quite rightly deleted paragraph 4 as unnecessary, because it was covered by the others, but the issue of nullity, nullity and irresponsibility is not solved. We are therefore pleased that you have accepted the remarks on all other provisions and that they will be voted on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u156	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately Mr Loverdos left again, and I wanted to refer to him. I was caught up with what Mr. Athanasios said. The bill covers a big gap. Cold reading of the bill will help very much. So it's good. I must congratulate and thank the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights very much for having worked under the chairmanship of Professor Agitides. Indeed, a comprehensive bill was drafted that provides for everything and which, instead, will help the courts to deal with the problems and will not make them difficult. There was a void. We had to cover it. We've got it covered. On the question of incentives, the tax provisions of the so-called development laws of the Ministry of Finance, I said they would come soon. But until the new regulation comes, the oldest laws of the previous governments apply, which we will, of course, improve, because they require improvement. There is, however, a scheme in force. There's no gap in that. There was no point in the legal aspect of the matter, which is completely covered. The second part will also be covered by improving the existing incentive provisions in relation to transformations. Political references were made in general terms. I do not want - I repeat - to enter this debate. The government, obviously, is monitoring the implementation of the Prespecies Agreement and obviously also implements a programme which the Prime Minister, the central body of which says: Now that the programmes have been completed and we have come out of the memoranda, the government has to develop a set of initiatives aimed at strengthening social cohesion and dealing with major inequalities and injustices that have arisen in the period of the memorandum. Of course, step by step. It is not a subsidy policy. This is to address real needs and problems, which are part of a comprehensive plan. This will be implemented up to the last antenna. This is why there is a density of legislative work. The government is trying to implement all these commitments and to pass all relevant bills. And here they want me to say - and to close - that this is precisely why, in order to be able to complete our legislative work, there is also a combination of bills. For example, we have brought with the transformations and the issue of electronic invoices, precisely so that we can promote many issues that are still pending. Unfortunately, this government has had to deal with outstanding decades. As far as company law is concerned, the law on anonymities, the law now on transformations and what will be followed for the supervision of companies and for GEH in particular, are outstandings that need to be covered, regardless of the purposes of the criticism being made here. Among us when we talk and all citizens understand that these are problems that need to be addressed and that their treatment will help. Mr Vardalis, there are obviously too many voters and members of the JRC who are involved in small and medium-sized enterprises, companies and are concerned with these problems. A large number of workers, the trunk, work in such companies and concern the future of companies. If you don't care about these small things, you don't care about the whole economy and about the future of work in Greece. We're talking about the present life, not the postmortem. In today's life we have to deal with the problems that exist today. And among the problems that exist today, very well or badly, are these too. So the government will continue to deal with them. This bill is a very bright sample, in relation to - I repeat - the gap that we have received. Finally, with regard to the amendments, I repeat that, in consultation with Mr Kaklamani, there has been a legislative improvement in his amendment and accepts it. He's going to the other provisions so we don't break the section of the bill before. The amendment on the OECD, on the permanent delegation, will not be debated today. We're pulling her out. With regard to the amendment tabled by Mr Dendias, I told you that, after consulting the Ministry of Finance, we will see the initiatives under way today. If there is a gap, obviously, the debate will be resumed tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Minister. I would like to make a statement to this House. The Secretary-General of the Communist Party of Greece and fourteen MPs of his party tabled a proposal for a law: "For maritime trade unions - Amendment and supplementing the provisions of Law 1264/1982, in order to fall within its regulatory field and maritime trade union organizations". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the above Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House organises and operates, twenty-six members of the ERIC. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Let us inform the ladies and gentlemen who are now attending the meeting that we are at the end of the debate on a draft law and that the vote will now be taken on it. The debate is closed at plenary level and we shall now be voting. The vote has been taken for a few months by means of an electronic system. So the MPs have their cards, it opens the system electronically, they are touch screens, the articles appear and as they appreciate and the result comes out very quickly. Otherwise, we had a fairly long process. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development is hereby concluded: ‘Corporate transformations and harmonisation of the legislative framework with the provisions of Directive 2014/55/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on electronic invoicing in the context of public contracts and other provisions’, and their adoption will be separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, a hundred and fifty-six articles, a farewell article and the whole bill. Each time on the screen they appear: 'To four articles to be voted on'. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure at the end that you have voted for all the articles, amendments, the hotel article and the whole. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any information, please contact the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u159	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u160	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u161	Following the conclusion of the vote with the electronic system, the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: ‘Corporate transformations and harmonisation of the legislative framework with the provisions of Directive 2014/55/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on electronic invoicing in the context of public procurement and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u162	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u163	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-26-S1-commons.u164	With the consent of the House at 14.10p., the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday, February 27, 2019 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work, only debate and vote at the outset, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Creating a child station at the Ministry of Culture and Sport, regulating the issues of the Ministry of Culture and Sport's Solidarity Fund, repealing the New Acropolis Museum and other provisions, in accordance with the additional agenda to be distributed to you.
