ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-26-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Only discussion and vote on the draft laws of the Ministry of Finance: a) Clear State Report, financial year 2017 and b) Dissolve State Balance Sheet, financial year 2017. The State's statement and balance sheet shall be discussed, as laid down in the Rules of Procedure, with the appropriate application of Articles 122 and 123(8) and Articles 107 and 97. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 107, which applies accordingly, the Conference of Presidents at its meeting on 7 November 2019 decided to hold the debate at a meeting and, if necessary, to proceed to a second. We propose that the speakers should be registered with a card and five minutes of speaking time, with a rotation of the speakers. Only the rapporteurs after the last speaker's speech has been completed have the right to secondary education in this procedure. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-26-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. The speaking time for the Parliamentary Representatives is six minutes, for the special speaker eight minutes, for the speakers five minutes and for the Minister nine minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I assume that you agree that the rapporteurs should be led by Mr Scandalides and Mr Logiadis, because they have committees and unsettled obligations. Good. The rapporteur for the Change Movement, Mr Konstantinos Scandalidis, therefore has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-26-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, it is demonstrated by the debate in the committee, but also the general economic evolution after the disastrous first half of 2015 that the price we paid was unbearable. The State Budget of 2017 is at the heart of this period. At the same time, the same pathogen that has been accompanying financial management for all these years is reflected in the policy of recent figures and less than in the development of the country. I shall begin with the undisputed and documented report of the Court of Auditors. I'll stay in five places. Firstly, for 2017 the upsurge in private debts to the public is EUR 100,34 billion, which for the whole year 2017 was increased by 6,47 %. Secondly, the Court of Auditors makes a detailed account of both the structural weaknesses of the administration and the omissions and the sources of the creation of new deadlines, which is one of the misdemeanours of the Greek public. Thirdly, the use of the reserve. Specific cases are analysed from the overview of the appropriations that have not been complied with under the provisions of Law 4270/14. In particular, eight cases are mentioned, totalling more than EUR 200 million in a budget, which means that there was also a lack of transparency in the use of the reserve. Fourthly, it is noted in another year that a register of fixed assets has not been established, as imposed by Presidential Decree 15 of 2011. It is a repetitive and unsatisfactory finding, so that it is impossible to record and assess the public property, which unfortunately by agreement in 2015 reached the entire superstate. The country is unable to assess wealth and hence to control its exploitation not only in the field of decisions, which have been allocated for ninety years to foreigners, but also in the field of elementary economic evaluation. Fifthly, the assessment of the ninety-six legal persons participating in the Greek State and 2017 was up-to-date. They were only five captured on the basis of provisional data from 2017, while sixty-two on the basis of 2016 figures, because they had not published financial statements. An earlier valuation constitutes an essential infringement of accounting principles, in accordance with Community rules. I think that these estimates by the Court of Auditors, which are made in an elegant and polite manner, as well as the debate prior to the committee, demonstrate precisely that all these essential criticisms made by the Court of Auditors are based on a reality that no one can question. I would now like to say some general political conclusions resulting from the 2017 balance sheet. First, by now reading the report from our rapporteur at that time, by Giannis Koutsoukos, during the budget debate, we see that the crisis in the use of 2017 fully confirms its assessments and forecasts, as well as the criticisms he has made for that historic phase. It is an account that contained financial measures of around 4 billion, the price paid by the country for the disastrous policy of the first half of 2015 and the tragic negotiation that followed and led to the third and most horrific memorandum. These are the additional budgetary measures. Secondly, from the 3,1 billion in revenues, ECU 2.5 billion. Some are new taxes imposed by 1-1-2017. They are precisely the ones who were asked to pay, in particular, small and medium-sized incomes. Thirdly, as far as the surplus is concerned, we have had ECU 1.2 billion. Overrun, as the forecast was 1.75%, i.e. 3.1 billion, and was formed at 2.44%, 4.3 billion, the surpluses, which Mr Tsipras had spoken about at the time, which actually meant bleeding from the many and small benefits for a few people. The relationship between direct taxes and indirect taxes has also deteriorated with the increase in VAT and excise duties. Since 1,15 in 2014, it reached 1.42, i.e. the popular layers paid far more than before. This, on the basis of the minimum economic policy manuals, is not a progressive policy. With regard to growth, overtaxation and the removal of resources from the economy and society did not allow the objectives set by the state budget to be achieved. Thus, in 2017, with a projection of 2.7%, a fall of almost 1% of GDP, was 1.6%. This totals between 2015 and 2017, which we are discussing - and we said this yesterday - is a loss of EUR 16 billion, based on the forecasts of the international organisations. Finally, there was a clear reduction in the Public Investment Programme by 800 million and a loss of significant European funds. In fact, this reduction is taking place at a time when the private economy is still at a standstill, recession and crisis, and as a result there is no investment, which would give some impetus to both employment and GDP growth. I think these criticisms describe this period of time and are also reflected in the balance sheet procedure of the State budget of 2017. After that, Mr President, our resignation will be voting against this report.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-26-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Scandalides. The government's meeting is the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Theodoros Skylakakis. Minister, you can take the floor anytime you want. Mr. Logiadis has the floor from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-26-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much. Good morning, everyone. Thank you very much for this help. I will be brief, and we have been through it before. Today we are talking about 2017, we are ending 2019, and this week we are talking about the 2020 budget. Is it the citizens who are watching us what they're thinking? Or are they not watching us at all? Or is that how we deceive the institutions? Because in the days that we were discussing here in Parliament on the subject of the Constitution's Review, the first issue in news was smoking. In 2017, the then opposition and current government opposed this balance sheet and balance sheet of the year 2017 and today it comes to vote in favour of it. I, as a new Member, ask myself: If we do not vote for him, if we vote against him, Minister, what will happen? Are we going to have an impact? It's been so long, it's been such a hard year, obviously the worst year, it's been the year the AIA settled here in Greece. If we all vote against it, what happens? So in 2017, ladies and gentlemen, it was the first year that the Greek State was obliged, under the commitments of the then government of SYRIZA, to achieve a surplus primary financial result at Eurogroup 15-6-17. In particular, the target for 2017 was 1.75% of GDP, but the 2017 budget measures, with increased taxation, cuts in wages and pensions, exceeded, with the primary surplus finally reaching 3.9% of GDP. The government then obviously became king of the king. I do not want to recall the words of the Eurogroup of 15 June 2017 in English, it is now the new 'Greek', with these primary surpluses. The Greek economy is binding on the primary surpluses. To make it clear to all of us that the public surplus means by definition a private sector deficit, it means permanent austerity, permanent bleeding of the Greek economy and public debt is also increasing, of course, private debt. The gentlemen and the ladies. The coup d'état and the Memorandum of Opposition speak rhetoric about development. But how is it possible to talk about growth without facing the elephant in the room, that is, these primary surpluses we have to have? So if we look at all this, the only thing that could be done would be the restructuring of this huge debt. At this point I would like to add that on 27 February 1953, the agreement between Germany and the victorious forces - we were also one of them - and a large part of Germany's debt was written off and the rest was linked to its exports. Germany was obliged to serve its debt only if it earned money from export. So, as they say at the time, the lenders had an interest in buying German products. A similar arrangement could help Greece, which, shortly before the outbreak of the crisis, spent billions on German tanks and more. I read - and then I will tell you where this is - 'If we apply something similar to Greece, then the Germans will only get their money if they allow a surplus in the Greek balance. And the Greeks will export products and host the hotels of German tourists until they pay back these cursed armoured ones." The Germans should not forget in the negotiations with Greece that Germany was once indebted and needed help, let alone that at the time in London Greece belonged to the lenders and accepted that debt write-off at the time of West Germany. The last instalment of this debt was paid with Germany on 3 October 2010, when Greece was in the constellation of the first memorandum. These are elements of the 'DEUTSCHE WELLE', they are not mine. The first and largest victim of this policy was social security. That makes sense. In short, ladies and gentlemen, no European country has kept a primary surplus of more than 1,9% for a decade, how much more than four decades. The only reason the lenders insist on such a foolishness is that only so can they pretend that our public debt can be repaid. We all know in this Chamber, of course, that our debt is not sustainable. Just, the Memorandum Arc doesn't have the strength required to admit it. We, as a PARTA25, propose the restructuring of the debt with a growth clause, as was the case with Germany in post-war terms, as I said, in order to reduce the primary surplus to 0% and to be able to 'breath'. Finally, I would like to add briefly that in 2017 this Independent Public Revenue Authority was created, which is neither Greek nor Greek. It's a very persuasive principle. Merra25 will not validate the first balance sheet - which has introduced the punitive insanity of the huge primary surpluses as a method of restructuring our debt and has led us to depreciation, impoverishment, humiliation and inconvenience. We are voting against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-26-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr. Loyadis. MEP Mr Constantine Kyranakis asks for a short-day absence abroad from 27-11-19 to 28-11-19, in order to participate as speaker in a conference organised by LONDON SCHOOL OF ECONOMICS. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-26-S1-commons.u7	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The special speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Charalambos Papadimitriou, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-26-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the statement of revenue and expenditure on the 2017 State budget and on the balance sheet of the same year. We are doing this right before next year's budget is discussed. It is also a progression in recent years, because it was previously made in January - February, when they found the time. We are therefore acting as representatives of the citizens. And that's something that matters. Hence the last line in the accounting reference to the net position of citizens, so that we know where we are at the end of each year's management. Look at the number. He's negative. But there is, in general, an intrinsic problem in public accounting since we have not captured public property in a proper way. And it is not as long as certain parts of the market are not working, because this country is still not sufficiently capitalist. I say this if Mr Chakalotos notices. The balance sheet shows the figures, as they were finally formulated and enables Members to control the government, the government at the time, so that we know whether what has already been budgeted has already been implemented. Furthermore, as the Court of Auditors has been systematically examined by this special Supreme Court, we have the assurance that the accounting rules have been complied with and that the figures are correct. The majority of these granted recommends the adoption of the balance sheet and balance sheet for 2017. It requires the continuity of the state and is explained by the post-election favourable development of budgetary matters and the improvement of the economic situation, two events that would be jeopardised if the parliament ever rejects the state accounts of 2017. We do not forget, however, that 2017 was a difficult year for citizens, another lost year for the economy after the two-year recession of 2015 and 2016. In 2017, the economy remained locked in the debris of the destructive experiments and allegedly delusion of the second Tsipras government. Let us remember the facts. In 2014, we had "headed out" from the recession. As systematic negligents, however, the Vice-Presidents do not dare to look at simple arithmetics. In 2012, the country had made the big and huge adjustment. GDP was then submerged by 7.3%. Next year we had another reduction in the national product, but less than 3.2%, which showed that we had begun to take the road towards'surface'. Indeed, in 2014, despite the unfavourable political juncture of the second semester and the doubts raised by SYRIZA's electoral rise, as well as his obsession to use the presidential election to cause elections, we had plus 0.7%, we had "headed out" from the recession. Instead of building on this positive momentum, it was then chosen to break down that progress, which our society paid very expensively and not just by taxes. They refused to close the second Memorandum and so Greece was unable to continue on the path of the promised debt restructuring discussion, both of which were express commitments by our partners and were relieved of them, of course lightly. Many think that what was wrong then, the famous first half of 2015, was those and then we're done. They say "Sign the third memorandum and then it all went smoothly, SYRIZA entered a normality". That is not, in my opinion, the case, unfortunately. In 2016, delays and GDP continued again by 0.2% at that time. At least until the first half of 2017, Mr. Tsipras and his team continued to behave incoherently and irresponsibly. They preferred to appear as resistance to the Memorandums when they were the same as they agreed in the most inappropriate memorandum by imposing heavy taxes. I will ask for Mr Tsakalotou's help in February 2017, because, if I remember correctly, he had a little - very agreed. And it was reasonable to agree to close the second evaluation that was already delayed. However, the obsessions of Athens, the obsessions of Maximos, led to another delay. So we finally got to what? In accepting a restructuring of the third memorandum with the second assessment, with even heavier obligations, including all those that follow us today, such as the monstrous pillow and a number of other obligations, of course, and 3.5%, which had already been imposed and confirmed. Thus, while in the budget adopted by the then majority in 2017, there was an increase in the national product by 2.7%, in the end GDP increased by only 1.4%. It's a huge difference! We were then talking about increasing investment by 9.1%. It's 5.1%. He then said the majority who voted for the budget that private consumption would increase by 1.8%. Finally, it stayed halfway through, just 0.9%. In 2017, it was confirmed that we have definitely lost the great opportunity to get our share of the monetary relaxation of the European Central Bank, the famous QE, to improve the liquidity of the credit system and to remain trapped in capital controls, thus crumbling the banking system that had already flooded with red loans. Generally, the budgetary policy remained problematic in that year, as the comments from the excellent report by the auditors show. The economy had returned, as we said, to a small recovery. However, the revenues of the budget have ultimately been reduced by EUR 2.3 billion. The tax on natural persons had reduced revenues by 1.1 billion, VAT was below 350 million, mainly emphasizing the excessive failure of the previous government to combat tax evasion and not the willingness of the taxpayers to pay their taxes, which did so with the above, at least those who could. Revenue from Community programmes has been kept behind by 2 billion, stressing the Court of Auditors. This is the result of the reduced public investment programme of 1 billion, a expenditure which has had the most negative multiplier effects, as critical projects have remained behind due to a lack of organisation, which has ultimately led to only half of this programme being implemented. Another policy was promised at that time, another was passed, another was agreed with Brussels and another was implemented. All they did at that time was overtaxing citizens and businesses, applying harder austerity, and the only result was eventually sharing some "fucking" benefits to citizens, which, of course, was hopefully becoming political customers. In the same line, insurance contributions to professionals increased excessively and the taxation of small and medium-sized enterprises doubled. These measures are now correcting the Mitsotakis Government and, therefore, there is no reason to lie about the fact that tax evasion or smuggling was allegedly struck. Let me just remind you that a statement by Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras promised that tax evasion would be arrested by three billion and even six months. It was the famous Lagard and Borgians lists. Only 100 million were collected and, unfortunately, lists were unable to serve this important objective of combating tax evasion. It is true that the second semester has changed a lot. Mr. Tsipras was at the Ministerial Council on 13-06-2017 and was discussing with the ministers what to do. "If this solution is not reached," said Mr. Tsipras, "and we remain in a proposal similar to that of the Eurogroup of May, my proposal to the Ministerial Council is not to accept it, not to agree on the Eurogroup and to go to the summit and ask everyone to assume their responsibilities." The revolutionary gymnastics kept well until then. Three days later in Eurogroup Greece agrees with everything. Of course, after the second half of the year, I have to note that from now on the good relationship has begun, the tender relationship with the people of the Community, especially the Commissioner responsible. Why? Because, quite simply, while it had been agreed with the lenders and was voted on by the House to have a primary surplus of 1.75%, it went 3.9%. One 2.15% more than GDP or 3.8 billion euros lost liquidity from the economy. We have pointed this out many times. I don't have to insist. The year 2017 was, after all, a lost year. Unfortunately, the Vice-Presidents do not remember that they have thrown the Samara - Venizelos government, on the pretext of electing the President of the Republic, because they are in a hurry to take over the government. And one wonders: Since there was no preparation, since in 2015, 2016, 2017, three years, we were in experimentation and revolutionary practices, why should they hurry so fast? You say, therefore, that the derailed train has put it on the rails. Obviously, you have been marked by Mr. Kammenos's advert. We now have a better understanding of the new regulation adopted by Parliament a few hours ago, with the Revision of the Constitution, on how to elect the President of the Republic. If we had this possibility then, the Samara government would have completed the second memorandum, we would have taken the debt arrangement, we would have exploited monetary funding, the QE, as all other countries did, we would have adjusted red loans, to a very large extent, by the end of 2017, would have no capital controls in 2017, we would have no growth compared to the other states in the euro area. For 2016-2018, Eurozone had 6.5% growth and Greece 0.9%. From the Court of Auditors' report I will get another characteristic extract, which bears witness to the total lack of government organisation in 2017. The European Union had intended to provide funds for medical care for migrants and refugees, but the government at the time was indifferent. It charged them all to the current costs of hospitals, so that the state expenditure could be launched and the Community money lost. In the middle of 2017, we were in this situation. Fortunately, the continuation was a little better and I want to be fair in this respect. Hence the support for Mr Mitsotakis' opposition at the time, precisely in insistence to get out properly, to get out of the Memorandum on time. In the two years 2016-2017, according to creditors' requirements, we had to achieve a surplus of about 5.7 billion. The government then took it to 11.5 and appeared as a champion of fiscal austerity, on the grounds that it builds a pillow - partly did it - for exiting markets. Watch out now. They believe on the side of Officerial Response that this is how they succeeded in declining bond interest rates. That's not how it happened. In 2014, the Samaras government last borrowed at an interest rate of 4,75%. The SYRIZA government last borrowed in March 2019 with 3.85%. In five years 1%, and less than that. Six months later, in October, when he just passed, the current government borrows with 1.5%. It is quite simply, I think, that what the country needed was to change direction, change government, pursue a policy of reducing taxes, restore confidence in entrepreneurship, and thus reduce interest rates. 2017 was another lost year. The balance sheet of the state, which I invite you to approve, is simply illustrating what the citizens now know. Go where he came from and never come back! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-26-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too. On behalf of SYRIZA, Mr. Armalene has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-26-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2017, whose balance sheet and balance sheet we are debating today, the change in the country's page, which was completed in August 2018 at the final end of the memorandum, began. The country's image was also reflected in a recent version of ELSTAT, in which it says that in 2017 unemployment was reduced by two percentage points. This trend then continued and continues to date. Inequality, as reflected in the Gini factor, decreased by one unit. The unequal distribution of income has also been reduced by half a unit. The risk of poverty, following social transfers, has been reduced by one unit. Child poverty decreased by two points. In other words, the SYRIZA government, which took over in January 2015, in early conditions of economic austerity and social inequality and with fully licensed funds, managed until the end of 2017 and mid-memorandums, to restore the derailed, indeed, track economy and gain the country's lost credibility, setting the foundations for the definitive end of the memoranda in August 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, the report sets out the elements of the state budget implementation and the government's accountability is being carried out with regard to the original forecasts. The balance sheet shows a structured view of the country's financial position, financial performance and cash flows for central government, in accordance with the current accounting system of the Diplomatic Accounting Changed Cash Base. Of course, the political situation today is completely different, since the New Democracy, which, as long as we have been a government, has not only been destroying it, but has told us that we are in a fourth memorandum. This has been repeated in general by the rapporteur, Mr Papadimitriou, previously. I will repeat that he forgot to tell us that in January 2015, which we took over the government, the fifth assessment had not been closed. There was the "mail Hardouvelis" on the table, which was in negotiation and provided a series of further cuts in wages and pensions and the sale of public goods. We received permit funds, which arrived until the end of February, for pensions and salaries to be paid. All this New Democracy considered them to be evidence, showing that at the end of 2014 we were starting to overcome the crisis, but without saying how the next assessments would be closed and what measures they would close. It therefore considers that if this policy were to continue, we would have entered a more rapid developmental orbit. So the New Democracy was talking about a fourth memorial and all this was celebrated on a solemn basis. What'd he do all these years? He was just ruining. And now he tells us that the economy and interest rates are going better, not because the country's credibility was won, thanks to the sacrifices of the Greek people and the titanic effort that SYRIZA made, but why New Democracy came in the second half of 2019. You forget that we handed you a 37 billion-billion-dollar pillow. You forget that unemployment fell close to 17%. You forget that all other indicators and growth index were on continuous rising orbit, nine quarters at positive growth rate. So, in the direction of this effort, which took place in 2017, all budgets were launched from 2016 to 2019, in a strict context, in which after August 2018 we started implementing policies of relief and social protection, which we had already implemented in difficult years, despite the fact that the painful compromise had been reached in August 2015. We have therefore managed to achieve the goals, to gain the credibility of the country. We have managed to achieve the surpluses, which you have agreed to be much more. And it's not the time to repeat the numbers, because they're already known. You questioned the clear exit, and yet we reached the clear exit. Of course, the country's image didn't come as lightning in hunger. However, if we want to do a dynamic monitoring and evaluation of the 2017 Balance sheet, we need to see it within a comprehensive framework of a political planning, which came after the second elections in September 2015. I would remind you that the 2017 budget was drawn up in the context of the commitments made by the third and - as proved - the last memorandum. Nevertheless, it is useful very soon to see what happened in 2017. In 2017, the country returned to positive and sustainable growth rates. For the first time in the last eight years there has been a small nominal increase in GDP compared to the previous financial year. In 2017 GDP increased by 3.536,000,000 billion compared to 2016. At current prices, GDP was 177.735.000. GDP in 2017 was less than 53,907,000 compared to 2009. From 2010, that is, from 2009 until 2017, the country lost 53,907,000 in GDP and not, of course, with our own governments. The primary surplus of the state budget was shaped positively in the amount of 1.290,000,000 against a deficit of 618,000 in 2016. This improvement was mainly the result of reduced costs, although the State's revenues were below projected. The rate of revenue achieved was 93%. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. As a share of the economy, state budget revenues decreased from 30.5% of GDP in 2016 to 28.5% in 2017. Tax revenues, direct and indirect taxes, amounted to 48,557,000, increased compared with 2016 by 900,000,000. And the percentage of tax revenues, compared to GDP, stood at 26.2% from 25.3% in 2015 and 20.7% in 2011. In 2011 we had tax revenues of about 20% and reached 25% in 2015. And this says something about how much the tax revenues have increased, the years you have ruled. In order to finance the overall cash deficit, the central government's debt increased by 2,322,000. By stacking GDP growth, public debt stood at 184.9% of GDP compared to 187,3% in 2016, which is reduced by 2.4%. Reimbursements, including those of the past financial years, amounted to 6.052,000,000 compared to a target of 3,289,000, increasing by 84%. This significant overrun of the annual objective is mainly due to the accelerated liquidation of the general government’s dues in order to stimulate the liquidity of the economy, and is in line with the provisions of Law No.4336/2015. The repayment of unpaid commitments from transfer payments amounted to 1,440,000,000 compared with a budget of EUR 15,8 million, that is to say, over EUR 1,424 billion. The overrun relates in particular to the payment of grants to the Single Subsidies Fund for the repayment of dues, the Single Social Security Body, the Local Government Agencies and the legal persons of the general government. Also, income aid and other transfers of 3,000,000 were increased by 1.2 billion compared with 2016. This increase mainly concerns income aid and other social protection measures, which increased by 1.8 billion. In particular, the social dividend costs increased by 775,000, the coverage of the provision of services of general interest increased by 466,000,000, where part of the cost of electricity was covered, reconnected electricity to households with low income, while the social income of solidarity increased by 501 million from 550 million in 2016, i.e. there was an increase of 1.019%.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-26-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Symphony, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-26-S1-commons.u12	I shall conclude, Mr President. In 2017, a social dividend of 770 million was granted. An increase compared to 2016 of 9.6% also presents grants to organisations for social policy purposes, mainly because of the grant to the newly created OPEKA, the Agency for Preferential Benefits and Social Solidarity. With this, therefore, we have also reached the report that I mentioned at the beginning of ELSTAT, where it showed that the country has entered a path of reverse course than the one that existed in previous years and at the same time the process of reducing social inequalities, which was for us and remains one of the cornerstones of our policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-26-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Viliardos has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-26-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are certainly not going to be positive in either the accounts or the balance sheet of the State of 2017, how much more so when the Audit Committee itself has expressed so much reservations with its reports and its nineteen observations, which include dozens of findings, which in itself affect the credibility of the financial statements. The first and greater clarification we requested during the debate in the committee related to expenditure on the service of public credit, about EUR 671 billion, which, as stated on page 44, exceeded the budget by EUR 99.6 billion. Especially as regards the proceeds from the sale of securities under a repurchase agreement, the repos, in other words, amounted to an outright amount of EUR 529.4 billion within only one year, when the entire government debt was of the order of EUR 328,7 billion and public revenues at EUR 53 billion. We asked: Why was it necessary? What is the reason why this procedure started on this area essentially since 2015? Unfortunately, we were not given a satisfactory answer, except for the fact that this was a loan recycling of around EUR 30 billion. It is something that we can of course understand, but not the reason why it is constantly under way after 2015 with increasing amounts. In the 2020 budget we saw it at around EUR 600 billion. The second clarification related to the additional funding of the parties of EUR 11,750,000. It is a huge amount, which would be right for the Greeks to know the reason given by a bankrupt country, which constantly increases taxes by reducing their wages. Why, really, should parties that collect so much money every year want more? Who gives them the right? Wasn't there even one to react? The following clarification related to the citizens' net position, which was negative at EUR 212,6 billion in 2017. We were told that, as in businesses, where if they sell what they have and do not have, they will remain in debt with what remains, as far as their creditors are concerned, something similar is happening with Greece, that is to say, that Greece is bankrupt so that the citizens responsible for the debts of their state should continue to owe EUR 212 billion after the sale of everything. We wondered whether they know that and that is why we are mentioning it. Continuing, we said that according to the Act, the 2017 Balance Sheet and Balance sheet procedure should have been completed one year after the end of the year, i.e. in 2018. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Therefore, we should normally discuss the balance sheet and balance sheet of the most recent year, 2018, with a view to drawing conclusions on the drafting of the 2020 budget. Here it seems that we have been heard by the government, after having submitted a few days later, the 2018 balance sheet and balance sheet, which will be discussed shortly, so that the 2020 budget can be preceded, as it should be. Furthermore, we have said that the value of fixed assets does not appear in the balance sheet, as was noted in the Court's report. On page 58 of the report, it is noted that the government's standing register is not linked to the state's accounts. So we do not know as a state what belongs to us. In our view, it is sad. As if this were not enough, it is listed on page 56 that the fixed assets were transferred to the supranational, which is mostly controlled by lenders, free of charge, without any prior assessment of them. However, if something similar were to be done in a business, it would be faced with huge problems with justice, with the shareholders who are Greek citizens and their leaders. Don't you think responsibility should be sought here? The EBRD in the 2017 Balance Sheet recognises only 828 million value in real estate, marinas and others, without specifying what it is. On the other hand, we wondered how it might be possible for EBRD to display the value of the public property received free of charge without appearing on the state balance sheet. How does the EBRD value the fixed assets? If we don't know, how will we judge the prices that he'll sell? In the balance sheet, however, only immobilisers carrying out a total of 1.6 billion euros appear. Furthermore, as regards equipment, can only be estimated at EUR 167 million, according to the balance sheet ‘equipment’ account, including the equipment of the Armed Forces of EUR 68,5 million? Only F-16 costs around EUR 18 million a year, new ones, and we have a hundred fifty-three different types. With regard to the value of public participations in non-listed undertakings, they shall be valued on the basis of their own funds accounts, which, if they are negative, shall be considered as zero. This is referred to as a problem and to the Court of Auditors' report on page 57, especially because historical costs are being used, while some financial statements are not provided in good time. An valuation should be made in market values, in the appropriate business practice, based on international accounting standards. In particular, in order to know what we have and not to sell our businesses at degrading prices. For example, we will refer here to the defence industries, RAS, EAB and ELVO, which appear in a negatively clear position, so at zero value, but are strategically necessary in Greece, while of course they are valueless. Fortunately, however, our constant pressure on ELVO has been heard, since, according to reports, it will be re-activated and hired five hundred to six hundred people, giving at least one breath in Macedonia where it has its huge facilities in Sindo. We also note the higher values of Egnatia participations of around EUR 6 billion, but for which it is being privatised for a fraction of its value. On the contrary, participation in "Eleftherios Venizelos" at 55% is estimated at EUR 268 million, when it is expected that 1.5 billion euros will be collected for 30% for sale. All ports are valued at EUR 118 million, that is to say, as the ship of a big shipowner costs. I'm filing it in the Minutes. On the other hand, participation in the surplus is only estimated at EUR 467 million. The number seems ridiculous, knowing how many assets we have been transferred there, along with our energy reserves. This is, literally, an accounting chaos. Continuing, in the privatizations for 2017, on page 57 of the Exhibition, we saw ELPEs, HYDAP, PPC, the ten ports, the Ennatia Road, the DESFA and the PPC. So we wondered why the reaction of SYRIZA, for example, in the case of the sale of the ELPEs, when it already existed in its plans. Regarding the Public Investment Programme, on page 68 of the balance sheet it was EUR 1.3 billion in the national strand and EUR 3.1 billion in the co-financed with the European Union, totalling EUR 4.4 billion from EUR 6.6 billion in budgets. Unfortunately, this is how we achieved the surpluses at the expense of our economy. The public now debtors at the end of 2017 owed 104 billion euros in total, of which 89 billion euros were from earlier uses. We have noted that they should be deleted if they are not collectable and that a provision is formed or held on another account, so that we know exactly what is due to the public. Finally, we were associated with the Court of Auditors' objections to the irregular use of the reserve. Of course, its use was not appropriate for meeting needs that were not urgent or predictable, as it proved. We have asked and got no answer as to whether the public has adopted the bilingual accounting system in all its services, such as every small enterprise in our country. For all these reasons, as we stressed at the outset, we are voting against both the balance sheet and the 2017 balance sheet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-26-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Villardo. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theories, after taking part in the educational program "Workery Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-one students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st Municipal School of Papagos. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, forty-eight students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Brissia High School. The House welcomes you. The Deputy Minister of Finance, responsible for fiscal policy, Mr. Theodoros Skylakakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-26-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened with interest to the rapporteurs' positions on the 2017 balance sheet and balance sheet. I was impressed by the position of the rapporteur for the Staff Regulations, because I noticed that speaking of the time had nothing to say. He didn't have any kind of self-criticism about what happened in 2017. I have the impression that an opposition which has become opposition because it was defeated a few months ago and has nothing to do with self-criticism, means that it has not yet understood exactly what happened in the last elections and why it was defeated. I will mainly speak of the elephant in the room of 2017, which is the famous surplus that was observed that year. In 2017, the agreement with the lenders signed by Mr. Tsipras' government had 1.75% target. This could agree and execute without having any problem with regard to the memorandum signed. The final execution with the latest data, Mr Papadimitriou, was not 3.9%, it was 4.88%. We went to more than four billion more than Mr. Shoeble's demand. I was not involved at that time in budgetary and political matters, but 4 billion, I think it is twice the mail Hardouvelis. And these four billion were additional to what we agreed on. Four billion restrictive policy had a very concrete and simple consequence. The government then, in its rapporteur's report on the 2017 budget, had budgeted growth of 2.7% and achieved 1.5% Note that 2.7% is very close to the 2.8% that we expect next year. It's not a huge number. It can be achieved by not exercising a restrictive policy for no reason. We'd say that in 2017 was the year Kaynes torn his diplomas. Kynes said if we want to speed up development, we have to have a non-restrictive policy. We had a restrictive de facto policy, from the agreement, 1,75% and 2,4% of the restrictive policy, which had been agreed. For this truth, the Qualified Opposition today does not find any reason to say, at least to accept it, "It happened, we were wrong". Instead, he tells us it was right, because, he says, that's how we created the pillow. The pillow, I think Mr Papadimitriou said very well, does not offer any enormous safeguards on the markets.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-26-S1-commons.u17	Others say the draft budget. It says exactly the opposite of what you said. You wouldn't write it down. Someone else must have written it. But read at least. It happened a month ago. It didn't happen two years ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-26-S1-commons.u18	Let's finish, let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-26-S1-commons.u19	I have read it very carefully and I am glad to have a dialogue. I'll tell you about the pillow. The pillow has a useful use, because it offers a chance not to go to the markets. That's what the pillow offers. The possibility of not going to the markets. There are two economic policies you can pursue. The economic policy of seeking to go to the markets because you have faster growth and because this reduces public debt much faster and the other side, to make a policy of overcrowding, to shrink growth and to say in the markets "I don't need you, because I have a pillow." In practice what this means for debt sustainability analysis, the institutions told us a few days ago. If one reads the analysis of the sustainability of the institutions' debts, it will see that there is a very large improvement, a spectacular improvement from June to now. From June to now, he hasn't changed a pillow. The economic prospects have changed. And the institutions tell us that 100% five to six years earlier is coming. In other words, the debt will go to 100% of GDP, which ceases to be a dangerous place from there on, five to six years earlier, in just six months that took place between June and now. What happened? There has been nothing but a change in the logic of economic policy. The pillow policy was wrong. You may not want to admit it, but the excessively restrictive policy that added 11.4 billion to overcrowding was no reason to do so. And these 11.4 billion you collected from 2016 to 2018 as a government, it was not the only restrictive policy that was conducted. At the same time, citizens' tax debts were increased at the same time by 18 billion euros. In other words, we taxed them over 11.4 billion more than Mr Shoeble and added a tax burden of 18 billion more, a sum close to 30 billion more than was necessary. That was the fundamental error of 2017. And as long as SYRIZA doesn't accept this mistake, I'm not saying anything more, I understand the circumstances in which this happened, but, whatever we say, it was wrong. As long as he does not admit this mistake he will not be able to look at the reasons why he has been defeated and what he will then, in my own humble opinion. I would like to say two more things concerning what has been developed by the honourable Members. Public property accounts. We must admit that the valuation of public property is not in any way correct. It is the subject of the accounting reforms that must take place in the next two years, it is Greece's commitment, it is also the government's commitment. We must finally measure public property properly. When we measure it, of course, and if we do so over time, we will find that the biggest destruction of public property occurred in the first half of 2015, when the capital controls were zeroed at the very great value, dozens of billions of dollars that the public had in banks. That's a reality. This is the basic deficit of our accounting data. But we also have to say something positive. Our accounting data after the Memorandums record the current reality with great accuracy - I would say to you more accurately than most European countries - and that is a good thing for this period. No evil is good, as the ancients say. There is therefore one reason why we must find a reason - to vote in favour of this balance sheet and balance sheet. I believe, in other words, that what is recorded for the 2017 cash side is right for these reasons, as is for stability and continuity, the government recommends voting for the 2017 statement and balance sheet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-26-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Minister. We are now entering the speeches of the parliamentary representatives. I suggest that it be done in reverse order. This means that from those who are here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, Mr. Loverdos, Mr. Tsakalotos, Mrs. Raptos, Mr. Tsakalotos, Mr. Tsakalotos, Mr. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-26-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. In today's debate both the New Democracy and SYRIZA, the two main poles of this bipolar system, tried to create a virtual rival, while both of these parties - together with the Change Movement - move on the same route. Why are they doing this? Firstly, because they of course want to implement the anti-grassroots policy with which these parties are militant, the policy that serves the interests of capital, with the smallest possible contradictions. Secondly, they want to encapsulate popular discontent so that it cannot manifest itself in an organised reaction and resistance and, most importantly, it is precisely to incorporate popular consciousness, popular strata, under a foreign flag, that is, that flag which sacrifices, on the altar of competitiveness and the profitability of capital, the satisfaction of people's needs. So we are discussing the 2017 balance sheet and balance sheet, which was the result of the very first SYRIZA - ANEL government with Minister Varoufakis. This first SYRIZA - ANEL government led to the third memorandum. Look out, let's go to that time. It is precisely then that the government pursued a roadmap which, in the circumstances of that time, led us to the third memorandum, which was also the original aim of SYRIZA, namely to go to a third memorandum, which would legalise the two previous memoranda. This third memorandum was adopted jointly by SYRIZA, New Democracy and Change Movement. The 2017 balance sheet and balance sheet that we are debating today was precisely the result of the third memorandum, that is, it contains the main, strategic choices in the third memorandum, which did not differ from the two previous ones, from the first and second ones. It had exactly the same philosophy, orientation and content as the two previous ones. What were his main targets? Its first main target was fiscal consolidation in order to make state debt sustainable - a vile debt - created by the policies of the governments of the past serving the targets of the bourgeoisie and the interests of business groups. In this respect, the main question is who paid for this budgetary consolidation. There is no doubt here. The popular layers were called upon to pay for this fiscal consolidation and paid through the tax raid imposed by SYRIZA, through reductions in their standard of living, whether these are pension reductions or these are further trades due to the reduction of social spending on health, education, welfare, culture and sport. This attack on the living standards of the people led to these primary surpluses, which our people called 'blooded primary surpluses'. The surplus, which was the result of this policy, is making it easier to make the state debt even more sustainable, because most of the primary surplus goes to the service of the state debt. So the people sacrifice their livelihood to serve a state debt for which he is not responsible at all. This is the one part of the third memorandum. The second part could have been nothing but the modulation of the necessary conditions to bring the recovery of the economy after a long-term capitalist crisis. So he continued on the road to the break-up of labour rights. Firstly, there are working jungle conditions that we are experiencing today. Secondly, it supported in every way the interests of business groups, creating an even more favourable environment in business groups - development law, strategic investment and a number of other measures taken by the SYRIZA government. Thirdly, it accelerated privatisation, despite the opposite, when there was a structured conscience towards privatisation. Indeed, he came to do what the previous governments of the New Democracy and the Change Movement, PASOK, have not dared to do, because of popular resistance, to mortgage the state property for ninety years. The mortgage on this state property for ninety-nine years has been made with the sole objective of 50% of revenue - if I am not mistaken, Mr Tsakalote - to go to serve the state debt and the remaining 50% to support the investments. Here, then, is the characteristic of the very classic policy implemented by the SYRIZA government. From this point of view, it is no coincidence that all these issues are reflected in the 2017 balance sheet. If we compare the current state budget for 2020, we will see that there are very small variations, but that they do not deny the essence, that it is an anti-grass budget for 2020, which confirms the continuation of the same policy of the previous governments, namely SYRIZA, by the current New Democracy Government. From this point of view, it is a one-way for the people to resist this anti-grassroots policy, to resist in every way, focusing on satisfying their needs, which prevent the interests of capital and business groups from being met. That is why the JRC is voting against, as it voted against the 2017 budget, balance sheet and balance sheet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-26-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr. Loverdos has the floor on the part of the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-26-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Reading the position of Minister Koklaakakis in the committee responsible, it is somewhat paradoxical to make 2017's balance sheet and balance sheet a government that emerged from popular sovereignty by changing political correlations. Because I lived through this in the very intense period 2014-2015 with the 2016-2017 balance sheet, I would say that from a paradox, I understood it as good, reasonable and useful for a serious state. Because the numbers of one government record them not as expected, but as numbers actually identified, the next, in the coming years, a next government, with a different political relation in the country. So I remember SYRIZA questioning that 2014 was a year of return to growth, then finding it government in 2015's accounts and balance sheet and confirming it in the coming years. Indeed, because I was present in all Mr Juliarakis' positions, and in the relevant documents, from 0.33% for the year 2014 - the first year of growth after the black years of the crisis - was converted to 0.6% or 0.7%, that is, something close to 1%. This is an important moment of a civilized country. The situation in the National Representation, in the plenary, goes exactly vice versa. There is an indifference to this control and we are confined to a brief process with positions which, in short or very remind of what we said about the budget for those years, when we were in opposition. We were then, we are now, so we feel confirmed about what we said in 2017. What does one note as an interesting element when he is a parliamentary representative and not a rapporteur, with a special responsibility to be very precise when it comes to the course of the numbers? We note, Mr President, that in 2014 we saw due debts to citizens, the governors, the taxpayers to the public of 75 billion, in 2016 being 93 billion, and in 2017, in the year we are talking about, to have reached 100,34 billion and vice versa an increase and the public debt to the citizens, the public's delays to the citizens. I then said, in the debate on the 2017 budget, that nothing is more vengeful, nothing is more avenged than a hope that has been disproved. I said that because after the wilderness of 2015, we were paying the cost of the reverse course. From where the country went out of the crisis, it had to go through a second phase of crisis and the cost was too great. I am not competent or able to calculate it, however, although it is not adequately reflected and we cannot agree to whether it is 80 or 100 or 200 billion, the taxpayer paid it with the increase in indirect and direct taxes that runs throughout the SYRIZA period, the relationship between the indirect and the direct taxes that is changing, is differentiated in favour of the indirect, that is, the most classic of a country's economic policy. Mr President, I would like to make two points of interest for the future and not for the past. I don't care how right we were. Whatever you had, you had. Looking at the next day and the next day, I would like to repeat two remarks made by Mr Scandalides and to develop them for one and a half minutes. It is not possible for this country to continue to have a public figure, which is a shareholder of ninety-six legal persons, and not to know how they are going. The Court of Auditors finds it impossible to control this course. If we say this next year, that is to say if we now coincide with the 2017 budget with the 2020 budget. And here we have a government that commits itself. But from what we have seen in the 2020 budget, it does not commit to another policy, it commits itself. I mean, the middle layers don't know if they'll be relieved. Now looking at the budget in haste, I do not demand you to respect my word as valid, I do not see any relief in the middle layers. Rather, the approach to the same sources of revenue is again, with some changes, of course, as far as free professionals are concerned, but we will see these precisely in the 2020 budget that we are debating in the committee these days. Listen, when the public is a shareholder in legal persons we need to know how each one of them goes and also how useful this presence is. When the Court of Auditors tells you 'I cannot appreciate', it is a problem for a favoured country. It is a very serious problem, because it makes calculations for the future with the eye or with ideological political principles: "I want the public to intervene, because this is my ideological starting point". Yeah, but what's he doing where he's interfering? We have passed the phase of the demilitarisation, we have passed the phases of the major demilitarisation, now we have confined ourselves to it, in a number, 96. That is what the Court of Auditors says. If that's accurate, I'm too. How's that going? We need this course, at least in the accounts, to have it in our heads, in our minds, to know what policies they need for legal persons over the next few years. Furthermore, for the efficiency of the public property. As Minister of Labour, Mr President, when I saw what assets this Ministry has and especially the funds, I said that the insurance system is rich. When I realized after a month that he can't sell anything, because no one's getting a signature, because the competition tells you're a candidate for the DA, then I realized you have a fortune and you're looking at it. Here, then, now that the property of the public has been in the superstate for a century, it is good for the parliament to monitor how this course is progressing. The former Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotos, gave me the passage of the relevant law, in which one reads that we have as a parliament the opportunity to control not through reading the reports but also through the invitation of the fund, to make us a record of what is happening in their daily lives. I think we need to make use of this possibility, I think we have not exploited it so far. Therefore, where we are shareholders as public and where we have public property, we need to know the course of things, so that we can understand the budgets better and the balance sheets to better control when we go backwards. I was telling Mr Scandalides, who wondered 'why so long after', that some time after that it is necessary. As you know, the first months of each following year relate to the previous year. Therefore, the state needs to do both the balance sheet and the balance sheet. Perhaps it takes a little less than the two years that we are going now, but in any case, it is an ex post procedure. Let us make it more serious, Mr President. In other words, from my experience in the years when SYRIZA was government, and now in the first year of the New Democracy, I understand that we need more seriousness in the balance sheet and balance sheet and fewer political words, that is, less political removals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-26-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Mr Eukleidis Tsakalots has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-26-S1-commons.u25	I think that both the government and opposition in most of the cases are talking about being out of the memorial and looking forward and looking back. It was not something you said before the elections, you now say it in your texts. What was the turning year that we were able to leave the memoirs? It was against you in 2014. SYRIZA "done you" because he did not help out the President of the Republic. Only this declares a recent memory loss, because in the summer of 2014 it was remodeled and you kicked Mr. Theocharis out and Mr. Stournaras left and entered Mr. Dinopoulou and writes the IMF that the program is being derailed. In the summer of 2014 you made a decision, no matter who the President would be, that you didn't want to go until the next November and you set it up from 2014, because since 2014 we haven't been serious about the Troika since 2014 you made a remodeling that gave a signal. In 2017, it was the turning point we came out of. Mr. Papadimitriou told us that we were still doing gymnastics and lionism. Do you know why we did this and delayed the second assessment between May and June? Because in May the wording said that the next surpluses should be at least 2%. As I said at Eurogroup at least 2%, i.e. it can be 3%, 4%, 5%, 15%. That's why we went in June. And in June we got the debt restructuring it set up, the whole framework, so we can get out of the memos. That was where the short-term debt measures, medium-term debt measures, long-term debt measures were agreed. From there the summer process of 2018 was set, so that we can get out of the Memorandum, with ten, fifteen years, with fewer economic needs than Portuguese, Spanish and Italian and have the country in the fifteen years to get serious and have a debate on how to make a development to deal with the debt. In 2017, this was decided. Have we slowed down the second evaluation in 2017? We're late because we had the IMF pressing for measures and countermeasures. You remember the positive and negative measures we had to take and they cost us too much politically. There is a great responsibility for the European institutions, because the debate on measures, as you admit, has nothing to do with reality. Because as the IMF was telling us, we would have had no surplus, we would have reached 1%. Diaselblum, in an attempt to resolve differences, said to do the measures - countermeasures and imposed it. The European institutions have a great responsibility, because instead of supporting and having the courage to think that the IMF is talking nonsense about getting to 1% of the surplus, because they had almost the same calculations we had, they said, let it be the compromise, because the IMF had found them with Shoeble. That's how it happened. And that is a European and problematic issue, that three European institutions did not have the courage of their opinion. And overcrowding is part of it too. I remember in 2017, when we discussed a similar review of expenditure like you, Mr. Dogsaki, we were saying - if my memory is not cheating on me, but about right numbers, over fifty, fifty down - that we would save 700 million, the European institutions said 500 million and the IMF said 20 million. That is why we have taken more measures than necessary, because the European institutions have always been compatible with the IMF. Why did they do that? Because Germany and the Netherlands actually gave the IMF the right to veto. And they said, 'We don't care.' You remember both the words of Rute and Merkel: "Without the IMF, a program simply does not exist". And they forced us to take more measures than we needed and forced us at the end of the year not to give more social dividends, because then they questioned the figures that Mr. Scully said. So let's get serious. There will be no historian of the future that will say that while for thirty-five years New Democracy and PASOK were government and allowed tax evasion, they built the client state, they did the Olympics, they did the military expenditure, they went bankrupt the country, the big problem was six months of the first government. Mr. Papadimitriou, when you say we were giving a dividend for our clients, you must be ashamed of yourself because you know that story. You know who built the client state and you know that in your party right now there are people with bachelor, master, with a doctorate who can teach in Harvard School of Government about how you are setting up a client state and how this client state has reached us in this bankruptcy. You should know that the dividend was made in a transparent way, in an electronic way and on criteria that we could not give to our own. Tell us if the criteria were wrong, but don't have the nerve to tell us that we gave it to our customers, you representing the New Democracy that created this client state, loved it, embraced it, created it, produced it, and now it's rebuilt. Look who you put in hospitals with Mr. Kikilia. Is that the denomination? Do you want to take them one by one to see who these new commanders are? And I'll be done. I think 2017 was the turning point. Of course Mr. Skolakis is right. There's been mistakes. It could have been different, but we were under the Memorandum, we created a plan for how to undo the measures and the countermeasures and we did it. We have built the framework for Greece to be able to have ten, fifteen years to be able to talk seriously about development policies. And we didn't do what you guys do. We did not leave you with empty funds, we did not leave you without a programme to be forced to find a programme in a month. You had these privileges. The great pillow that you say in the preliminary draft was positive was Portugal's experience. And when they ask me: “Why did you make this pillow? For the others to have it, the next one?’ - that's what a lot of people say - we tell them I'm not like their faces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-26-S1-commons.u26	Thank you. Mrs Rapti has the floor on behalf of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-26-S1-commons.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said, this draft law that ratifys the State's statement and balance sheet for the financial year 2017 shows, as has already been said, this paradox: our government, which, as an official opposition, had - and rightly - voted against the budget when it came to a vote by the SYRIZA - ANEL government. Although, therefore, there is a seemingly mismatch, which is, of course, due to the considerable delay in the process of adopting the balance sheets and balance sheets by Parliament, I would like to make a few points about the economic policy of the past few years in relation to and, of course, contrary to our own policy. As the State Secretary responsible mentioned earlier, 2017 was a paradoxical year, as in 2016 and 2018, and this is because under the responsibility of the then government of SYRIZA there was a huge overrun in the primary surplus agreed with lenders. Indicatively, this primary surplus agreed with the lenders for that year was 1.75% of GDP and a budgetary result for the general government was reached by more than 4%. This huge sum, the figure of 4 billion, as it has already been said, in just one year, hides - because all this was more than what the lenders were asking - what all Greeks and, in particular, the middle class felt on our shoulder. In other words, a ruthless overtax on the part of taxpayers who are ordinary mortgages. We all remember the twenty-nine taxes imposed by the SYRIZA Government, from the increase in VAT from 23% to 24%, the increase in the rates of solidarity levy, the reduction in the tax rate, the increase in the tax on all free professionals and small and medium-sized enterprises from 55% to 100%, the abolition of the excise duty on alcohol for the Dodecanese, the increase in pay-TV 10%, 5% in fixed telephony, the increase in alcohol and cigarettes, the increase in tax on beer, and wine, the duty on duty on coffee, the imposition of increased ENPY rates on supplementary ENPY for legal persons. So, at that time, in 2016-2018, the sum of surpluses, in addition to those agreed with lenders, reached EUR 11.4 billion. Of course this has been a result which has been at the expense of the development of the economy. Further, the taxes imposed and the debts of Greek taxpayers increased by 18 billion. So let us be honest: this money came out of the pocket of Greek taxpayers and Greece became poorer in projects for citizens, as the Public Investment Programme was reduced. The result is that in 2016 the SYRIZA government, which estimated a 2.7% growth for 2017, eventually saw a growth of barely 1.5%. And this anemic growth tended to turn into a structural weakness for the Greek economy. We have had even lower investments than the European average and our real production capacity and competitiveness have been reduced over the years. This has been despite the significant improvement in the world economy, but also in the European economy at the very same time. So, did we lose the development train? We here in Parliament respond unequivocally not and prove it by doing so. With the reduction of HPAI we have done by 22% in the mid-term since this summer, with the new development law that we voted on, in order to facilitate investment and create well-paid jobs, but also with the tax bill which is immediately submitted to Parliament and which contains significant reliefs for our economy and the households of Greek citizens, as well as for businesses. So we do the development and we support the income of the Greek citizen and also of the Greek family. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that, in the ordinary and necessary parliamentary practice, we will be voting in favour of this bill. At the same time, however, we are finally putting an end to the overtaxation of the Greek citizens and we are preparing for a dynamic and documented claim to reduce the primary surpluses in 2021 so that our economy and our society can grow further. That is what we have committed in the run-up to the election, and that is what we will do.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-26-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Rapt. I just want to remind you that this law is being ratified by lifting. Mrs Bakadima has the floor from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-26-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss the ratification of the State's statement and balance sheet for 2017. Since we are called upon to ratify something that relates to 2017, let us turn a little unnoticed back in time, in particular on 15 June 2017, when after the Eurogroup meeting on that day, in the communiqué that was moved, it was said that Eurogroup welcomed Greece's commitment to maintain a primary surplus of GDP of 3.5% by 2022 and then to follow a fiscal path consistent with the European financial framework. According to a European Commission analysis, this compliance could be achieved with a primary surplus of equal to or above, but close to 2% of GDP over the period 2023-2060. Yes, our country is obliged to serve the agreement on primary surpluses of 3.5% by 2022 and equal to or above 2% by 2060, since this is the restructuring carried out by our creditors, through public surpluses vis-à-vis the private sector, in order to repay an unsustainable debt. Of course I am not telling you anything new, ladies and gentlemen, since I am sure it is not something you are hearing for the first time. You may not hear for the first time, nor the fact that the exaggerated zeal of the then government has yielded more than expected, leading to a final surplus of 3.9% of GDP. What were the steps leading to this great success, resulting in grand celebrations? Increasing taxation, cuts in wages, pensions and benefits. Binding our country into the chariot of increased and unthinkable for the situation of surpluses, they cause no possibility of reversing a deficit in the private sector, resulting in the application of policies of bleeding and permanent austerity that sink the country further into a debt-sharing regime. Thus, the poverty and desertification that contributes to the deterioration of the situation is intensified. Meera, we move in the nets of a vicious circle of the debt cycle. The wage and pension cuts increase the public debt to the public, as they fail to cover fixed debts and tax contributions themselves and the public, in turn, is enough to owe the citizens more. This endless situation means, in order to achieve the objective of the primary surplus of 3.5%, even stricter fiscal and austerity measures must be taken. Looking at the absolute figures for 2017, without deepening, it can be brought to the wrong conclusion that tax policy has been rendered. In fact, tax revenues had an increase of 2%, an increase not due to a positive return on the measures, but to a comparatively greater increase in indirect taxes, as opposed to the direct ones which increased 1.1%. Ladies and gentlemen, although several times we have heard rhetoric about growth and boosting competitiveness, how can an effective development plan be planned and implemented when we choose to blind and avoid facing the elephant in the room, which is no more than 3.5%, operating and operating, for as long as we do not react to it, like a noose in the neck of all of us, while, finally, there should be brave steps to redress the work injustices and restore all the conquered who have been trampled and destroyed by the communiqué tsunami, which all governments have voluntarily served from 2010 to today? Unfortunately, there's nothing left. Social security has become redundant, while pensions have not been left unaffected, as the reduction in state resources has been even more painful for them, as the economic downturn has corroborated the distribution system as a function of unemployment and the need for social protection has been increased, leaving the weaker groups without cover and protection. This reduction in resources has also been felt in reducing public hospitals’ costs and subsidies and health structures and has been impressed by incomplete health services, while many hospitals have started to have a shortage of basic health and medicine, eventually affecting patients who could not meet their needs. How can we, then, celebrate that such a surplus was a success with the above target being a zero, just 3.7 billion GDP increase, when public debt continued and continues to increase? How can we celebrate, at the same time that more and more of our fellow citizens are getting to live near or below the poverty line, and when our country has lost most of its new scientists who, in search of a better tomorrow, left her, leaving abroad? As MERA25, we set the target of growth of 2.5% and, accordingly, will follow the level of the primary surplus, linking our own interests to those of lenders. Anaemic growth of less than 2.5% means a suspension of part or whole - depending on the rate of growth - of annual repayments and not a transfer of them in the future, but a definitive haircut. At the same time, we set targets for primary surpluses of 0% in a balanced budget of up to 1.5%. These objectives will be determined annually by the growth rate of the Greek economy. Within this framework, the overtax that exists to serve the out-of-real objectives of the primary surpluses shall be abolished. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'll be out in a minute. In conclusion, I would like to point out that, as a PART25, we will vote against the 2017 balance sheet and balance sheet, as we refuse to ratify the first balance sheet that has introduced and established the insanity and irrationality of the primary surpluses as a method of rescheduling our debt, which ultimately cause more suffering and problems in the already extremely afflicted and exhausted of the uprooting policies of the governments of the last decade in our country. Undoubtedly, no sterile policy of extermination of austerity, overtaxation and outrageous surpluses will work healing or bring back all the children he has driven away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-26-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that they are attending our meeting from the top Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-two students and students and three teachers attending from the 2nd Blessed High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the draft laws of the Ministry of Finance: "a. Consolidation of the State’s Report, financial year 2017 and b. Consolidation of the State’s Balance Sheet, financial year 2017.’ Asked by this House: Can the draft law of the Ministry of Finance be accepted: ‘Statement of the State's State Report, financial year 2017’? The accepting of the draft law, please rise. [[Accepting the draft law]] Apparently, most of them were raised. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Resolution of State Report, financial year 2017’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-26-S1-commons.u31	Asked by this House: Can the draft law of the Ministry of Finance be accepted: ‘Statement of the State's Balance Sheet for the financial year 2017’? The accepting of the draft law, please rise. Apparently, most of them were raised. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Principle of the State Balance Sheet for the financial year 2017’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-26-S1-commons.u32	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau to confirm the minutes of today's sitting, including the debate and vote of the State's Report and Balance sheet, for the financial year 2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-26-S1-commons.u33	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-26-S1-commons.u34	With the agreement of the House at 11.56 ́ the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday 27 November 2019 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, according to the supplementary agenda to be distributed to you.
