ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I'll start with mentioning the deceased Dimitrios Soufa. In an hour's time, as you know, his family, the parliament and the political world of the country will farewell to the former President of the Greek Parliament and Minister Dimitrios Sioufas, who suddenly left us after such an important presence and offering to the public affairs of the country. The fact that he has not been a Member in recent years did not mean that he has not always been present. He was a patron of all Parliament's initiatives. He was also on the board of directors of the House Foundation and tabled proposals. He also donated his political archive to the House and missed no event of the House. He has always been present, discreet, tender, and he is one of the people who all agree that he has honoured his role from whatever position he has served, without political feasibility, without political empathy. He was a man of measure, and that's why I think the whole House liked him and honored him. In an hour or so from now on, we'll all be there. We express our condolences to his family, his party and to the people who loved him. I think that in time the House will find the way to honor him. That was the first announcement. I'm on my way to the second announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce the letter submitted on Sunday 13 January 2019 by Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras to the President of Parliament, which reads as follows: 'Honourable Mr President, I inform you of my intention to ask for the reconfirmation of the Greek Parliament's confidence in my Government, in accordance with Rule 84 of the Constitution and Rule 141 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Please, as you immediately initiate the proceedings for the opening of the debate in Parliament's plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-14-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, with the letter of the Prime Minister calling for a re-confirmation of the Parliament's confidence in the government, you will be drawn up and distributed on a special agenda according to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, on the subject of discussing and voting on the Prime Minister's proposal for a vote of confidence, which will begin tomorrow 15 January 2019 at 10.00 a.m. Then I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Formatography presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Cooperations of the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, the Agricultural University of Athens, the University of Thessaly with the TEIs of Thessaly and Central Greece, the Pallemnian Fund and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents has just completed, and in accordance with its decision to discuss and vote on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Education is postponed until Thursday 17 January 2019, following the debate on the topical and urgent questions of parliamentary control. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-14-S1-commons.u3	The House has agreed. We also have a resolution of the Board of Directors of the Association of Officials of the Parliament on an announcement of the death of the former Minister and former President of the Parliament Dimitrios Soufas: "The board of directors met exceptionally and expresses the grief for the death of the great political man, who served consistently and unselfishly both democracy and the public interest, gaining respect and love for all. He decided unanimously to send a wreath and to follow the exile with an honorary delegation from members of the Association of Officials of the Parliament, to announce this resolution in the House and to observe a minute's silence at the board meeting." We do not think we should stick to a minute's silence before the deadly sequence is completed. It doesn't mean in time. I shall also read to you two letters from the President of the Group of Independent Greeks addressed to the President of Parliament. In the first letter, the following is inserted: "I hereby declare that the MEP Helena Kuntoura of Alexandros, as of January 14, 2019, does not belong to the Parliamentary Group "National Patriot Democratic Alliance".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-14-S1-commons.u4	In the second letter, the following is inserted: "I hereby declare to you that MEP Kokkalis Vassilis Konstantinios, as of 14 January 2019, is not part of the Parliamentary Group "INVESTMENTS HELLENES - National Patriot Democratic Alliance".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-14-S1-commons.u5	Finally, in a statement by Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the President of the Parliament - which, of course, has a date of 12 January, while others have a date of 14 January - the following is stated: 'I hereby declare that I leave the Greek Parliamentary Group of Independents (ANEL) as of today'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-14-S1-commons.u6	So after the announcements I've read to you, I think we can solve our meeting for tomorrow...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-14-S1-commons.u7	Madam President, I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-14-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Philly, although not provided for in this procedure, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-14-S1-commons.u9	I would like, since we are in a meeting, to express our strong opposition and our unequivocal attitude to the phenomena of violence, which were unfolded the day before yesterday in the demonstration against substitute teachers from ELAS, and which also resulted in the injury of a colleague, Mr Dile of the JRC. I think that this House must be clear - not only in condemnation but also in warning - that the repetition of such phenomena which directly affect democracy should benefit from the cruel legal treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-14-S1-commons.u10	There is no such procedure as that!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-14-S1-commons.u11	Four years you've been ruling!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-14-S1-commons.u12	Mr Philly, because there will be a plenary tomorrow, I think it is worth all Members present. Already the first reaction was the Minister of Public Order itself. Of course we would like to express our sympathy to our colleague for the abuse he has suffered, but I think it would be a good thing to discuss this tomorrow and to have the Members together here. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-14-S1-commons.u13	With the consent of the House at 12.21 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 15 January 2018 at 10.00 p.m.
