ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 3]] [[To enter page 5]] Before entering the topical and urgent debate, I have the honour of announcing the following: The Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Vice-President of the Government - Minister for Economy and Development, the Ministers for Home Affairs, Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, National Defence, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Citizen Protection, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic, Health, Culture and Sport, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, Deputy Ministers of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Foreign Affairs, Environment and Energy, and Secretarys of Education, Research and Religious Affairs and Culture and Culture, tabled a draft law on 19-12019: ‘Strengthening the Final Agreement on Dispute Settlement described in United Nations Security Council Resolutions 817 (1993) and 845 (1993), the Declaration of the Interim Agreement between the United Nations Security Council and the Interim States of 1995’. It was referred to the competent Standing Committee. I would also like to read a letter from Mr Amyras: "Mr President, I would like to inform you in this letter that since Monday 21 January 2019 I have been removed from the Potamian Parliamentary Group and I will carry out my parliamentary duties as an independent MEP." The abovementioned letter is entered in the Minutes and read as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to read a letter from the President of the Independent Greeks: "Mr. President, we know that he is appointed as Secretary of the Greek Parliamentary Group of Independent Greeks - National Patriot Democratic Alliance" at the Fourth Session of the Parliamentary Period, Mr. Maria Collia - Tsarouha." The abovementioned letter is entered in the Minutes and read as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with the first 253/7-1-2019 topical question by the Member of Parliament for the first cycle (B) of the New Democracy MP, Jason Fotilla, to the Minister for Health, on the subject: ‘Previous increase in cases and victims of the Western Nile virus’. Here, Mr. Colleague, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, because the world is listening to us, I would like to say that for some people it may not seem too timely today, the question about the Western Nile virus, because we are already out of season. We don't expect cases. The mosquitoes don't exist now. The question, however, is very topical because, as the wise people say, 'the children of mind before they are hungry'. So today we have to design the plan so that we can find ourselves in a better situation than the one we are facing this year. In 2018, then, we had an unprecedented loss of our fellow citizens' lives. In particular, we had forty-seven dead and three hundred and sixteen cases of the Western Nile virus, which is mainly transmitted through the stinging of contaminated common mosquitoes. I submit the latest data published. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Jason Fotillas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I referred to this unprecedented number in post-government times, because it turns out that the victims have stopped only because they stopped there being mosquitoes and not because there was some effect or any action to tackle the problem. And as I said again, I bring this to a discussion today, because I am concerned about the strategy that you will follow - and if there is, and what it is - for 2019. In the tragic inertia you have shown, it also contributed to the problem with the ICUs, because, on the one hand, there is insufficient number of beds available in ICUs, but on the other hand, when intensive beds are taken over by the events of the Western Nile virus, there is an inability to deal with the other incidents. There was therefore a clear deficit and a failure to act by the State and a risk and a threat to health, since the competent authorities left citizens incapacitated. You have - I will say - in a second year's time at some length in the hands of some fragmentary and fragmentary measures to deal with the consequences, such as, for example, the convening at the end of August of whole communication - I would say - broad meetings on measures. But that doesn't save the situation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude by asking three specific questions: why did you take all necessary steps to prevent the virus? Secondly, what is your strategy for 2019 and what will differ from that for 2018, which we cannot say was a success? Third, will responsibility be sought from the Ministry's services for inaction in the critical years 2016 and 2017, but also in 2018 that led to this result? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Firela. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. My dear colleague, I believe that the issue raised by the question raises a debate on the public health services of our country, the way in which they are organised and the question of whether they meet the current challenges that exist in our globalised world. That is the crucial question. I think you're making a methodological mistake. You make a mistake that has no scientific basis. If one looks at epidemiology even a little bit in literature, one understands that we cannot compare cases and physical deaths. Because stablely a percentage of all cases - and because of the Western Nile virus that have symptoms in the central nervous system - of 15% unfortunately has a bad ending. So we cannot compare cases per year and draw political conclusions, because very simply the Western Nile virus has settled in Europe and has a global dispersion. Now, it has been firmly established in Europe over the last ten years, especially in central and southern Europe. Case variability is approximately identical in all countries. This year in particular, which was a very great outbreak year, we had cases in Italy, Serbia, Romania, Hungary, Israel, Croatia, France, Austria and too many other countries. In fact - this is the most interesting - in all these countries, 2018 cases have been cumulatively more than the cases of the last five years. That is what I am telling you directly is under investigation both from the World Health Organisation and from the European Centre for Infection Control, the ECDC. The World Health Organisation considers that there is a link between climate conditions especially in this year's year, namely early rainfall at the beginning of summer and very hot season in spring. There was, then, this cramp of cases. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I really think it is absolutely unscientific to make this conflict, because, my dear fellow Member, it is not because of the government or the Minister or the public health services of the country, but on other multiple epidemiological factors. For example, as in 2015 and 2016, when we had zero cases, the government did not come out that we have zero cases this year, so it cannot be invoked by the government that in 2018 we actually had this increased number of cases and cases and infections in the central respiratory system and deaths. I believe, in other words, that we need more seriousness when dealing with public health issues. We have in our country reliable and valid scientific organisations, such as CEDEFOP, such as the competent scientific committees, set up to monitor the variation of these infectious diseases transmitted with hosts. We are in complete cooperation with Europe's institutionalised scientific bodies. From nowhere we have reports and complaints about unexplained cases in our country. It was about the variability that took place in all the countries of Europe. And, of course, it is also subject to research programs, which are currently under way by the ECDC, to determine the factors of the particular epidemic and infectiousity of the virus in 2018.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u7	Minister, let me remind you that you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u8	I'll be done, Mr. President, in just a minute. I therefore think that neither criminal inertia has been bad reaction, as you say in your question, nor is the country impertinent. I would remind you that many times there have been prophecies in this country for health bombs that will be activated, for collapses of the public health system, for dismantling of the ESS and so forth. This was all misguided from life. We have excellent scientists in the country, people dealing with infections and the epidemiology of infections. They are watching and there is a serious system of epidemiological surveillance, and they obviously also have the responsibility to introduce appropriate measures to the state. The West Nile case is multifactorial. There is also a need for systematic measures to combat mosquitoes, which are the responsibility of the municipalities and regions of the country, and the Ministry gives appropriate instructions at the beginning of the year. There are also personal protection measures by each citizen for common mosquitoes which transmit the disease. There is, of course, and there is also a need to take measures, especially for blood, in endemic areas. There are so-called affected areas, and there under the responsibility of the CSR and the CSR, interventions are made and blood donation is suspended by citizens living in these areas, so that there is no risk of transmission. So there is health insurance in the country. We are prepared to deal with cases that happen anyway. This threat is now cross-border. It happens in all countries in the same geographical unit. That is exactly how it is in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory of eleven Scouts from the 15th and 24th Cologne Scouts Systems. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Let us inform you that the reason why you see a few Members in plenary is that there is parliamentary scrutiny and procedure for the topical and urgent questions, during which every Member has the right to ask the Minister on a matter. At the moment, Mr. Fotillas from New Democracy has asked about an issue that will arise when the zeals begin, about the Neil virus and all that he brings to cases and victims. Mr. Fotella, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, I have listened carefully and your answers I have to say that I am more concerned about than reassured. You told me the state did what it had to do, that it did all right. But the dead arrived at forty-seven. That's not questionable. We had forty-seven dead. As to whether the World Health Organization is concerned and whether this figure is identical to the whole of the European Union, I should like to state in the minutes that the World Health Organisation is concerned about the Neil virus in Greece, and our country is third to cases in the European Union after Serbia - as you said - and Italy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u11	This applies to all of Europe, Mr Foila.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u12	I tell you that this is the document and I tell you what he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u13	Or the paper writes it like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u14	Minister, you will have the floor after your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u15	Report Point does not say about Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u16	You said - and it is very right - that in 2015 we had zero cases, in 2016 we had something minimal, perhaps zero, but little, anyway. I told you before what the wise people said: 'The children of mind before they are hungry'. This was because the four-year period 2010-2014...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u17	I have not interrupted you, Minister, and you are always noble and do not spoil it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u18	Minister, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u19	At that time, therefore, in time and systematically the CEDEFOP proceeded - in cooperation with universities and other public bodies - to a series of both prevention and suppression measures. We submitted them to you under Question No 1208/2018 by the New Democracy Health Sector. And these measures led to the elimination of cases of both the Western Nile virus and malaria. Enable the program "MERROPH", which you found, you didn't make it, the previous government had made it. You abolished, however, and stopped the MALWEST programme, which was and obviously had given its results, because as you confess, in 2015 and 2016, we had no cases, precisely because the MALWEST programme and CCI had done their work in the previous period. In August 2018, Minister, I made a public statement, expressing my concern that the number of the dead had then reached twenty-one. You replied to my statement and said there was no cause for concern. I want to believe that at that time you were not imagining, giving me this answer, namely that cases and dead would be more than doubled, because of the twenty-one we reached forty-seven. So, obviously, you had no cause for concern in August 2018, when the cases since you didn't worry until today have more than doubled. What I have not heard is something that reassurs me and that is different from what you have done up to now, so that I believe - and have reason to believe - that we will not have cases again tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr. Fotella, who was very precise in his time. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u21	I have never said, dear fellow Member, that everything is well-built in the health system and public health services that oversee this very sensitive area of infections. What I am saying is that we have sound and reliable mechanisms and excellent scientists, who are alert and that we do not need to create a climate of health insecurity and panic in society. This is the essence of the matter, and I think it is really unscientific and unacceptable and populist and demagogic to measure infections, deaths and epidemic counts every year and try to draw political conclusions from it. This is not done in any serious and civilised country in the world. Only in this country are these things done and it is a political controversy to see whether we have an outbreak of measles, which has been all over Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u22	But you have a short memory, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u23	Please, too! Can I tell you something? In this respect, you explain in a sense, because here all medical clubs came out in 2016 and we were told that we were criminalising against society, because we had an increased infectivity of the endemic strain of influenza, such as across Europe, and we had an increased number of cases. Next time, when the strain changed and the cases decreased, we didn't hear a word. So these things cannot be said. It is a very serious matter that public health, my dear fellow Member, should become the subject of micro-policy and, indeed, on these terms. Please, too! You can study, you can talk to the scientists in the country, with the epidemiologists. We have systematic communication with the ECDC, with the World Health Organisation and its office in Greece, we have incorporated into the theme and the diseases transmitted through transmitters precisely for reasons of sensitivity, so that we have the know-how from the World Health Organisation, we organise conferences and seminars and continuously retrain the human potential of the system in the new approaches and, in fact, we are trying to take all the appropriate measures so that our country does not fall short and has the reflexes it must in these cases. On the issue of the IMPs - and I will end with this - let me say that the fact that in the IMPs we have beds that have developed but do not work because of a lack of staff has been a timeless problem of the health system over the last fifteen to twenty years. There has been a great deal of deterioration in the time of the crisis, but at the moment, my dear fellow Member - and the CSCE data are available - we have the smallest number of closed intensive beds in the last 15 years. In other words, we have a total of six hundred and fifteen developed beds operating five hundred fifty-two. We only have sixty three closed beds that can't work because of a lack of staff and we're making an effort at this time through the institution of the other...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u24	There's the MPAs in there, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u25	Excuse me, but it's the ITHs. The figures are November 2018. I'll tell you the image of 2011 and 2014. So today, we have sixty-three that do not work because of staffing problems. In 2011 we had a hundred fifty-four and in 2014 we had a hundred-three. So the account that both in the health sector and in the sensitive area of public health services goes from bad to worse, that the country is a clear vine against viruses and microbes, that there are health bombs that will reap the population does not, insults the intelligence of the scientific world and, in my opinion, insults and affects your credibility as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, on this point I will tell you eight topical questions which were scheduled for debate and will not be discussed for reasons which I shall speak immediately. Two of these topical questions which will not be discussed are Mr Kyriazidis, who is waiting here, on the subject of health. The first, with number 271/14-1-2019, a top-circuit question from the Member of Parliament, Mr Spyridon - Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Health, concerning the medicine, will not be discussed because of an impediment by the Deputy Minister, due to a workload. The second, under number 273/15-1-2019, is a top-cycle question (A) by MP Laconia of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Leonidas Gregorakos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Studies of patients from EKAV to intensive treatment units due to a lack of medical staff", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister, due to a workload. The third, with number 276/15-1-2019, top-circuit question (A) by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Very serious problems in the General Hospital of Samos", will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister, due to a workload. The first, with number 272/14-1-2019, up-to-date second-cycle question (A) by MP Drama of New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Creation of the Bran Hospital/Oncological Clinical Department in the University of N.N. Dramas, will not be discussed because of an impediment by the Deputy Minister, due to a workload. The second, with number 277/15-1-2019, topical question from the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Problems in the functioning of the Centre for Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (KEFIAP) of Amphichia", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister, due to a workload. The first, with number 254/7-1-2019, topical question by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy, George Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Complaint against the Director of the Kilkis Hospital for a Worker's Violence", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister, due to a workload. Also, the third, with number 256/8-1-2019, is a topical question by the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece. Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "For the impact on the functioning of services and working conditions on services of the "Venezelio" Hospital from the fire that took place in the former buildings of the University of Crete on 23/9", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister, due to a workload. Finally, the second question under number 3143/281/7-11-2018 and application for the submission of documents by the Deputy Drama of the New Democracy, Dimitrios Kyriazides, the Minister of Health, on "the operation of the Ophthalmological Clinic of the General Hospital of Drama", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister, due to a workload. Mr. Kyriazidis has asked for the floor. Mr. Colleague, I'll give you the floor for two minutes. I would ask that the time be respected and that we do not exceed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. I have tabled two topical questions and none is discussed. Mr President, we have been critical days for our country and as parliamentarians we have a special debt, a national debt, and we have to lift to the extent of the circumstances of this shameful agreement, which was discussed last week in the light of the debate on a vote of confidence on the part of the Government as it was tabled as a proposal. Of course, this week we went right into this national swan. I hope that Members will be removed from the agenda. Mr President, at the juncture of 4 September last year, after an attempt of six months, the Deputy Minister, Mr. Paulakis, came to speak of a huge issue that tortures my county, my fellow citizens. I hope no county has such events and incidents in the sense of carcinogenicity. It is necessary for my fellow citizens to have access to prefectures away from Drama, such as Alexandroupolis or Thessaloniki, to deal with this issue that is afflicting themselves and their families. Last year, Mr. Paulakis had committed himself that by the end of 2017, the Pathological Clinic would be reinforced by an oncology - pathologist to deal with matters. Unfortunately, we have reached two years and there has been nothing like that. On the contrary, we see the clinics, one after the other, taking heavy blows to the notion of doctors' departure, as recently happened with the pathological clinic. The pathological clinic cannot deal with issues of cancer patients, since the relevant courses of chemotherapy would be established. Minister, since you're here, and you're in charge of the Ministry, there's a complaint from the doctors at the pathological clinic.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Cryazides, I'm sorry to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u29	I am talking about the same issue, Mr President. You gave me two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u30	Yes, but the two minutes I gave you are to protest the questions that are not being discussed and not to develop the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u31	That's right. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u32	But you are developing the issue right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u33	No, no. I am talking about that, precisely, the recent complaint by doctors at the pathological clinic, who say that they cannot guarantee the security of quality health services to their fellow citizens. Secondly, they say that they cannot guarantee their own security any more and everyone has to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u34	Mr Colleague, I gave you the floor, but not to develop the matter. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u35	The circumstance that the Minister of Health is here...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u36	I think it's understandable. It's not the Minister's responsibility. It is under the responsibility of the Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u37	He admits that in this way the Deputy Minister of Health...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u38	You objected. I gave you the floor. They are also recorded in the Minutes. So I would ask you very much not to open the debate, because it is not a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u39	In this way the Deputy Minister for Health cannot deal with his colleagues, i.e. he is not coming to answer. This is an insult and it exposes us. You, too, have to take a position. It is not possible since September 2018 that this timely question has been tabled in order to get an answer, and to have arrived at the end of January and not come due to a workload. Next time, the workload was that it was in the café of the House. That's terrible, inadmissible!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Miriazides, what you said was recorded. Thank you very much. You understand that we as a Bureau cannot force any Minister to come and answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u41	Minister, I appeal to you. You're sensitive, look at these issues. We are not expecting anything from Mr Polakis, since he is deceiving this whole parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u42	Let's continue with the process. Thank you very much. We continue with the fourth with the 259/8-1-2019 topical question from the Member of Parliament for the adoption of the PASOK Group - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Erasimism and manipulation lead to the failure of local health units (TOMY)'. Colleague, you have two minutes at your disposal for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the fact that the creation of the TOMY and the effort to respond to the problem of primary health care - which exists - was a bad idea with the creation of the TOMY. We have pointed it out from the outset. We pointed it out when you brought the law to Parliament and voted on it. We had noted that there was no funding - a separate provision of funding for space - there is no spatial distribution, there is no provision for a medical development plan. It was a little - very, very random. In December of this year, you indirectly admitted it, but clearly, too. We are already in January 2019, where the mother of reforms, the implementation and the development of TMIs and the application of the famous gate keeping in primary health was supposed to start, bringing - supposed - again a new era in primary care. That's what's been through. You yourself postponed the application for an unknown date, as a two-month old chaotic, where the insured were looking unfamiliarly for doctors, who do not exist, for the simple reason that, in December, from the two hundred nine supposedly supposedly operated one, some of whom were working in health centers and all - all primary doctors were eight hundred five to ten million. It was therefore expected to fail. And the question arises, is when will it work - whether it works - a primary health care system in the country? In what terms? Do you intend to make any changes in the way it is implemented, which has de facto failed? It's known that doctors don't come to TOMY and it's very reasonable. No one can attract medical staff, with very low wages, with full and exclusive employment, for two years contract and then, God has! It's an environment, which, obviously, does not attract doctors. And, as you are well aware, medical clubs refuse to enter a contract procedure, for how you try to implement the system. We are today at the worst point in the primary, as imperfect reforms are known - they usually create more problems than they existed and complicate the situation, even more. I do not claim that there was primary health care in Greece, which is hardly the result of the fact that you started from a very bad situation and made it, within four years, worse. The first and main question, then, is what will happen from now on. Is there going to be an application of primary health care? What about doctors leaving? They have already begun to act as credentials at primary level. We don't have doctors, but doctors, known as insurance measures, start choosing to leave the system, which means that the number is falling even further. And how will this be applied, the home, the system, which seems to be leading to a complete failure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr. Barriotta. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u45	Dear colleague, we have had this conversation many times. However, I think that the starting point for your debate and your question is absolutely problematic. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Let the page in. 48]] You abdicate us that we are delaying the implementation of a model, which you consider to be a mistake. I remember what you were saying here, in the debate on the bill, that they are unnecessarily structured, that they are wasted, some say that they are pharaonic, that they have a sense of statism and that they are Soviet-cut - that is what we heard - and that we are about to waste the money of the Greek people for no reason. So what's the truth? And that, in my view, completely undoes the claim that things are going from bad to worse. The truth is, my dear fellow Member, that sixteen months after the law on primary care is passed, we have a hundred ten new public structures, which operate with problems - I say - not with the full staff that we would like, not with the ability of highly medical resources. This, in my opinion, is a huge management, administrative and operational ritual, which has been done in times of crisis. In a country that has to invest in public structures since the 1990s, we, precisely because we had a plan and went to the Commission and negotiated it and convinced that it is both sustainable and operational and will reorganise - in a positive way - the system, we have guaranteed funding from the European Social Fund, guaranteed for four years. Of course, Europeans do not approve programmes and actions if there is no macroeconomic sustainability. So we've given evidence that that's why this program will be covered then. It's about 70m euros a year. There will be a gradual involvement of the Public Investment Programme and it will be covered by national funds. So we came to have a hundred and ten structures, in which, together with doctors, the second proclamation now, we will have in the next five hundred family doctors, about a thousand other staff, nurses, social workers, health visitors and administrative support. We have a new model: For the first time in the country, a primary care system is being implemented, with the family doctor core. This was the Achilles heel of the U.S.S., from its foundation. Since 1983, the founding law of the ESS has been passed, five or six laws have been passed, without being implemented. You know very well why they did not apply. The reason for this is that there has never been the political will to upgrade and broaden the presence of the public sector in a field allocated to the private sector. About you tell us - and that is the essence of the question - that since we have a developed private sector in the country, we no longer need to develop the public, especially in primary care. This, in my view, my dear fellow Member, is absolutely neoliberal logic. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] So we say we have problems. There's a delay. These reforms, all over the world, have a depth of time to go ahead. This is a new, innovative system. It has a culture of prevention and health education. Now we have a million eight hundred thousand citizens enrolled in family doctors. It is a very important percentage of the population for this very short time. Indeed, there was an incredible risk, which has been artificially cultivated in many medical clubs, but also in the media, that anyone who is not registered by 1-1-2019 in a family doctor will not be able to do anything in the health system. This is something that obviously could not happen. So we said we're going in transition. The institution operates and develops slowly. We want, of course, for the citizens of our country to be able to access a first-reported person and a first-report structure, such as local units and family doctors. This is a great intervention, it is a real reform, which, of course, will go ahead with problems, difficulties and resistance, because in fact, what is being played is that the public's presence is expanding in this area.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u46	Minister, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u47	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying this. Criticism of the pace, keeping timeliness, adequacy and better staffing of the new structures, do as much as you like. However, critical of the type 'this has taken us back', 'the system has broken up', 'it has disorganized', it is absolutely unscrupulous, my dear fellow Member. Nowadays, apart from these five hundred, who now complete the recruitment, we have over seven hundred contracted doctors with the EEA. They were seven hundred years ago, with a completely ineffective and not helpful - for the citizen - a system of two hundred visits, which you know very well that they were being exhausted in the first days of the month and then the citizen was paying out of his pocket. We abolished that. We have given the opportunity to open the system, which was closed, to young doctors and is an open invitation from the EEAS, under these conditions and conditions, which we have described in the conventions and which we will try - and we have already done so - to improve them, give them a chance as well as a chance to free professionals. However, there should be a public-private synergy. We do not think that everything will be done in the state and all needs will be covered through the ESS - under no circumstances - but clearly, we are on a course of strengthening public care and, in my view, much more qualitative care. That's what the picture says, coming from the patients who serve in these one hundred ten first TOMY. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, the cubit from which you passed under January 1st, I didn't put it, you put it. Indeed, there are a hundred ten, according to the evidence you give, but you had the cub of two hundred thirty - nine. You have about 45% compliance. That's something. You said 1-1-2019. You advertised it and committed to the troika for this too - to get the money - that the gate keeping will enter into force and everyone will have a family doctor. I say you couldn't do it because you've been wrong all along. We've been through this. And I say this to explain about neoliberalism. I am speaking as a party representative and a member of the party, who set up the health system. He built everything you found, with the problems he had, as a public system in Greece. Obviously, I can't defend private health or anything. I am defending a simple rule - you said it at the end - that the country, with statistics and not with the impression of patients, has too many doctors, has many laboratories, has too many specialists in primary health care. It has no system, it has never been - you are right, with the historical responsibilities of all of us - it does not have today, however. I don't claim you made it worse. I claim you're making a hole in the water. It's been four years and the situation is where it was before. The announcements are good - I do not question the intentions, you know, I have never doubted them for you - but, in line with the constitutional limits, you have six months of government life and you have done nothing. You did not answer any questions, you did not tell me when the system would be activated, as you described it. You postponed 1-1-2019. For when? As a complete system, with a family doctor everywhere, with gate keeping, with a secondary reporting system. This is not the case, it has not been done. I'm not just criticising, you know that I disagree with the way you develop them. I am in favour of the creation of a Single Primary Health System, which exploits the many and remarkable state structures. Because you're always confusing the state with the state. For me, it's also the self-government, which you have outside, which you have ruled out, and you have thrown it out. It's public, it's self-government, and it's got to be sought, and it's got to get in the first place. Public health services will also produce private individuals if the EEAS controls them and pays them, and the patient does not put his hand in the pocket. I'm sorry, but the statistics are flawing you. From time to time, more and more, increasingly poor people in the country buy the drugs, because they don't find a doctor to write them and look for individuals for primary health care, to run a blood test, to go to see them for a flu or a disease, because they don't have access to the health system, which is sealed. That's the truth. The figures are data and are getting worse, because the minimum funding you had and found, instead of investing in the existing primary state system, instead of hiring three thousand people in the urban health centers, which Athens has - and they subordinate and you know it - went to create new structures, which, of course, do not work, because we did not have infrastructure. Don't hide. We all know that WMD was created where the municipalities were kind enough to grant spaces, where there were spaces, because you had no provision for budgeting beyond Europe's money, taken from another programme, for payroll, for recruitment. The only thing that's happened is hiring non-medical staff. I have one thing to advise you, to solve the problem of medical staff: erase this horror of 'exclusive employment' for people to whom you are asking to provide services for two years and then four years, and God has it! Who will come with a grand and no medicine, without any other employment, for four years? Let's talk about this for permanent assignments. For the recruitments of this guy, what does he have to offer? That is the main reason, the archaic, the archaic, the obsession with an antiquated system of industrial relations, which no longer works what we want to say. Most doctors who had insurance measures and continued with IKA's doctors, you know, and I know they're leaving the system. Which you're surprised at! Certifications in the St. Anargyros and elsewhere have begun. People leave people who were already at the west of their working lives and would be gone anyway in four or five years. You force them to leave now because they must have an exclusive employment. So let us close matters that are time-consuming so that we can solve the primary health problem, otherwise we are not going to do anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u50	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u51	My dear colleague, first of all, the PASOK, has indeed made a big cut in the relocation. He made Law 1397, the founding law of the ESS and established a public health system. He also built the Agricultural Press Health Centers in the countryside, which were a great change and upgraded the care of rural people. Then, in my view, and products of the years, there was a mutation completely market and neoliberal in the approach, where, especially for primary care, the political option of not applying the original law was realised, not to become the Civil Health Centres that had been planned and to divest this field in the private sector. We also had the problematic and distorting polymedicines of the IKA - EEAA, for which, my dear fellow Member, you are in a parliamentary group which, while in the co-government, made a violent intervention, with Mr.4238/2014 and did - by putting a deadline to close their doctors a week - and that is why they left massively three thousand doctors. More mass bleeding in the health system never existed!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u52	And now the rest of us are leaving!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u53	Watch out. Don't give up on that. So, my dear colleague, we have given four years of transition to the seven hundred, about, remaining doctors from the former IKA - EEA - under insurance measures, which expired on 31 December, and I inform you that more than 60% of the health system has been left in. Primary care did not collapse, as many prophesied, and we really faced them trying to apply equality rules to the health system. As in the whole health system, my opinion is correct...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u54	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u55	Except for the universities and the military. Okay, these aren't health services.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Barriot, please. You don't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u57	I believe that this view which you are now expressing that full and exclusive employment, which was the core of the founding law of the ESS, is an outdated employment relationship which creates problems, etc., in my view justifies the designation that I have just said, of spreading into market-based neoliberal views. So, in primary care, we now have three hundred and fifty thousand free visits through these new structures. There were no such visits, dear Mr Barriotta, to the public health system. We have a hundred and fifty thousand patients who have now developed an individual electronic health file. There have been thousands of children's vaccinations. Prevention activities have been carried out in schools, community health education, interventions in social protection services such as CAPH, synergies with "Help at Home". It is a new culture and a new philosophy, which now records positive results. We are now developing two academic primary care units, one in Thessaloniki and one in Crete in collaboration with the NSA - University. We proceed to public reports in front of local communities. We are striving to see that there are interventions in the community at home. These were never in the health system. And it succeeds in doing so in the midst of a crisis, amidst limitations and austerity, while supporting today's public structures. We have been calling for four hundred and fifty-five places for the health centres in the countryside and towns, which are saying we do not support. We're supporting them. We have now been able to support them. We have also announced about two thousand three hundred places for hospitals. They're permanent positions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u58	Minister, you're about to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u59	It is indeed an intervention of support with the human resources of the health system. Is that enough? Apparently not. Needs are much larger. And we have a new model that will slowly grow with problems and difficulties, giving incentives to greater attraction. And - please! - the doctors hired at TOMY, my dear colleague, get EUR 1.650 clean. Don't say a grand!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u60	Minister, please give us a hand in the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u61	They get a payroll, curator I.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u62	But why don't they come?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u63	Because, my dear colleague, the doctors have left the country. There are eighteen thousand doctors abroad. There's Brain Drain. There's medical immigration. Mr President, allow me for two minutes, because I think it is interesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u64	Just help out a little bit, please. You've more than doubled your placement time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u65	If he's been talking all this time, I need a copy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u66	To speak again, I have no problem. I went to London, where I met with the Greek doctors' association of the United Kingdom. They are excellent colleagues of high quality. This club has three thousand three hundred members. So many doctors in Great Britain right now. You know what they told me? They told me: “We understand that our country cannot give us British, German, Swedish wages. What we want, Minister, to turn around, is to convince us that there is an environment of merit in our country and that those who really deserve will go ahead and will not perpetuate the known phenomena of customer relations and of 'immigration'. That's what we're trying to establish, and that's what we're trying to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u67	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u68	And the primary care and the Local Health Units and the institution of the family doctor are - let me say - the completion of the ESS, where the PASOK actually placed its seal in the 1980s.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u69	We thank the Minister, whom we are decommissioning. No more questions. I would like to make a statement to this House. The following letter was received by the President of the Group of the European Democratic Alliance, Mr Fofi Gennimata, from the Group of the Party of European Socialists: "Mr. President, I know that the Member of the State Mr. Athanasios Theocharopoulos from today does not belong to the Group of the Democratic Independence Parliament". The letter referred to above is lodged in the Minutes and read as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u70	Also, to announce some more timely questions that will not be discussed. The third under number 264/10-1-2019 a topical question (A) by the Independent MEP Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Recapitalisation and reordering of the Greek banking sector", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotou, located in the Eurogroup. The third, with number 257/8-1-2019, top-circuit question (B) by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance, concerning the "delegation of real estate to a Public Property Company (ETAD) - Fund for the Development of the Private Property of the Government (TAPID)", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr.Eklidis Tsakalotou, located in Eurogroup. The second question, under number 243/4-1-2019, of the MP Ilias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Giannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The feasibility and moderation of the transfer to the supreme building on the demand of the 51 state-owned property in the Municipality of Pyrgos", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Minister of Finance, Mr.Eklidis Tsakalotou, located in Eurogroup. The fifth question under number 258/8-1-2019 of the F Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Finance, concerning "the redundant workers of the Associations of Agricultural Cooperatives (ESA) Larissa, Elassonas, Farsalon", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotou, which is at Eurogroup. The seventh question under number 238/3-1-2019 of the Greek Parliamentary Serres of New Democracy Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Although the Ministry of Finance for the monuments and properties of great historical and cultural value that passed in the Supreme Court", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotou, located at Eurogroup. The first question with number 2932/31-10-10-2018 question of the circle of petitions and questions (B) by MP II of the Democratic Compromise PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Deletion of the Municipal Closed Gymnasium of the "National High School" of Saint Barbara from the U.S.", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotos, located at the Eurogroup. Also the fourth under number 262/9-1-2019 topical question first, (A) by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christou Papa to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Active need to increase military service", will not be discussed. There is a letter from the Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Kaidazis. We continue with two questions which will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Catherine Papanatziou. We begin with the second, with the number 244/4-1-2019, the first-round question (B) by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and the Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastinos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The increased VAT and the price of the air ticket". Mr President, you have two minutes at your disposal for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u71	Mr President and Minister, I would not have asked this question if the Work Centre of Rhodes and the Mayor of Rhodes had previously not made the world aware that the price of the ticket unacceptable. Because to go to Rhodes, and if you haven't bought the ticket, the price can be up to 350 euros, while, as you know, to go to England, you find a ticket with 50 and 60 euros and 70 euros. He was kind enough for AEGEAN's leadership to meet me and tell me that the reason why the ticket is so high is because we pay VAT, which is 24%, and the rest, about so much, is what we give the tax office, like every taxpayer and every taxpayer company. Of course, this thing will be answered by you if it is right. But what I can say is that in other countries and especially Portugal VAT on airlines is very low, they say it is 6%. This is at least claimed by the company ‘AEGEAN’. If we take into account that TURKISH AIRLINES is also subsidised by the State, it is a public company, to have a low ticket and attract tourists, beyond that citizens are charged with such a high ticket, and tourism is damaged. For how will the other one come to pay so much when he can go to the neighboring country with half or less of his homeland? I would like to say, therefore, that if you make a difference on these issues, what the state, the Ministry of Finance, will in any case gain from tourism. So he won't lose enough to damage the economy. There will be so much money in the country that it will definitely cover what will be given in the good sense of the term. So my question is whether in the foreseeable future there is a chance that it will change from the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, my colleague. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to start by saying that it is our Government's intention, if budgetary conditions allow it, to introduce legislation to reduce VAT rates, contributing to an increase in household income by further increasing the demand for goods and services. These reductions will also bring about a reduction in the transport services of persons, including air transport within the country. Besides, the measures announced by the Prime Minister at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, in order to boost the economy and the market and strengthen social cohesion, are the reduction in VAT rates, by 2 points, from 24% to 22%, and by one small, from 13% to 12%, from 1-1-2021. Here I would like to point out that VAT is a common tax system in the European Union and uniform calculation of the tax is a commitment by all Member States on the basis of Community directives. As you know, in our country today, services for the carriage of persons and their luggage, including air transport, are subject to the standard VAT rate. I should like to stress that VAT rates only affect air fare prices within the country, because in the context of the competitiveness of air tickets for persons from within the country to the outside and vice versa, VAT is not imposed at all. The airlines, whose revenues from international transfers exceed 50% of the total annual gross revenue, are exempted from VAT on delivery and import of aircraft, as well as services for the service of immediate needs, such as use of airports, cleaning, repair, etc. Therefore, we do not consider VAT to be the main reason for the price of the ticket. I shall refer to the others in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u74	Thank you to the Minister and to the economy in time, of course. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u75	Of course, there is no doubt that your intention is good. The question is, however, when the proposal will be implemented, because that is the question, when. It is also right to say what you said about VAT from abroad, but do not forget that there is internal tourism. In other words, a family that wants to go, for example, to Rhodes, if it is charged with such VAT, you realize that it is not going to Rhodes. I mention Rhodes because it's the most remote area. So I only partially answered my question. There is still the question of how much VAT can be lowered inside, because after all, as you know, there are charters - let's say it - and there's no need to take the normal plane someone to come, takes the charter and come at the price that the charter gives him. But what needs to be stressed is whether in practice you have had a dialogue with the airline, AEGEAN, which is essentially the air carrier of the country. There are, of course, other small companies, but it is still not important to make a contribution to this. So my question is this: is the Ministry in a way, not in negotiation, in talks with AEGEAN? Do you try to reduce the price of the ticket or leave it for when the conditions of the economy are improved, which, and the upcoming elections, do you realize that it takes an vague character? Therefore, I will once again insist on the chronological contexts. If you can, not commit to, proclaim them, because otherwise my question has rather academic and not practical character and, as you know, we doctors in practice want tangible results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u77	Following on from what I have said in my prototype, I should like to point out the Government's intention to support the islands and islands. Already in the last legislative act published on December 31, 2018, it is extended for a period of six months from 1.1.2019 to 30.6.2019 the reduced 30% VAT on the islands of Leros, Lesvos, Kos, Samos and Chios. I would also like to mention the fact that the Government for the islands of Greece is planning and implementing an island policy, which is the implementation of the transport equivalent, which harmonises the cost of transporting passengers and goods to the islands in relation to inland transport, by paying the beneficiaries the compensation for island costs. Also, according to document No 102/21.1.2019 by the Civil Aviation Service, which I will table in the Minutes, at European Union level, the aviation sector has been fully liberalised for many years. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of State, Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And the airlines set their own pricing policy, offering fares at different prices, starting from very low to high, depending on time of booking tickets and on the services offered. Unique State interference in the level of fares is made in the lines where public service obligations have been imposed - they are the barren lines - for which the maximum price of the fare is fixed. In relation to the level of tariffs, the airport modernisation and development charge, as well as the public airport charges, which also affect the fare’s final price, have not been revised since 2001 and 1994 respectively. Nevertheless, the Ministry of Finance monitors the effectiveness of the tax policy pursued and assesses the impact of the tax measures taken. In addition, we are considering improvements in the current legislative framework, with a view to economic development and tax justice, but at the same time also to achieving the budgetary objectives. In this context we will also consider the request put forward and when we are given the opportunity, perhaps we can implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the eighth question under number 241/3-1-2019 (B) by MP II Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Will our state finally protect our fellow citizens from unjust claims by the public, which are made by landmarking?" Mr President, you have two minutes, but if you want to discuss the question that is not discussed, I will have a relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, thank you. Madam Secretary, the question was raised a year ago that he claimed the public's 10 to twenty thousand properties perimeter to the neighbouring municipalities, for the reason that they were registered as private property. To be clear, Mr President, it was the following: during the realisation of the land, whether they were declared private property or public property, the public has come to state ownership and raised a presumption of public ownership, because they have in the past brought features of forests, and they have claimed their public ownership. There is a procedure in a committee, according to which individuals object and present their titles, and there is a parallel procedure in progress in the recent period, where the State raises complaints for recognition of its own property, when they had not questioned the first stage and have been declared private. The question, therefore, is that the public is raising rights from the beginning of the 19th century, where after liberalisation it has been said - it has been introduced, if you wish, since then - that it is forested on the presumption that it belongs to the public. Of course, in the 200 years of the free Greek state, things have changed very much. They've joined the town plan, they've changed form and they've troubled people by claiming the property they've paid themselves, who live, daily pay taxes, their property tax obligations, income tax. A year ago, therefore, the question was asked by me, Mr President, what the public is going to do and I asked the State Secretary. It had responded that the matter concerns the Ministry and a solution is to be found. Since, however, a year has passed just since January 2018 and we are going toward the end of January 2019, I raised the question so that the State Secretary can give us answers as to whether he has dealt with the matter or whether the Ministry of Finance abandons what was said at the time. And if he doesn't give up, how will he recognize the rights of private owners?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Mrs. Undersecretary has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u81	First of all, I would like to say that the main objective of government policy is to record public property and protect it for the benefit of all the citizens of the state. What happened now with the past governments? There have been decades of governance of the country in which there has been complete inertia in recording and protecting public property, resulting in the creation and perpetuation of complex problems, such as violations of public land. Since the taking up of tasks by our Government has started a struggle to solve past pathogens at all levels, but also at the one of public property. Our will is to record, protect, rationalise and manage public property for the benefit of society, while at the same time safeguarding the public interest. Therefore, the public is right to exercise the statutory powers provided for in those lands which have been on the presumption of rights under the ownership process.h After all, there are numerous cases of violations of public land - we all know that - which has been taking place for decades and not always for social or historical reasons, which means harming the public over the years. Throughout this climate of problems we have received, we have focused on managing and solving them on the social benefit, but also on the public interest, as I have said. Indicative of our intention and our work is the fact that we have proceeded to a pile of public real estate concessions to municipalities in the country for the benefit of local communities. These requests were spent so many years in the ministerial offices, without any solution being given. We therefore consider what we have undertaken in the context of the management of public property in detail and carefully, with a view to resolving it. We do not want to leave it to the bells, particularly issues relating to sensitive social issues that have been afflicting the citizens for so many years, such as the issue you raised in your question, which we inherited and which is a very big problem, which if it were so easy, so many years would probably have been solved. In fact, in municipalities periphery of Athens there are property of citizens who, before joining the town plan, had both forest and public character. With integration into the town plan, they lost their forest, but not their public character. Therefore, on the basis of the information submitted by the Forest Management, the services brought forward the alleged objections by law, claiming the rights of the State. Of course, you realise that the sensitive issues relating to property, that is to say, the main homes of citizens, need some specific examination and management for social reasons, without, however, overlooking and safeguarding the whole of us, which we are obliged, as both the Ministry of Finance and as citizens of this country, to ensure. In this context, then, we are working. I am going to refer to my denture of what action has been taken on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u83	I should like to say this, Mr President, to the Minister. Indeed, there is a presumption of ownership of the public office of 1832 and 1836. Today, however, these areas have been incorporated into the plans for a city of fifty, sixty and seventy years. They've been orchestrated by legal administrative action. They have been purchased by private individuals who have paid and built houses on these properties and new neighborhoods and new neighborhoods have been created. I must remind you here that we are essentially talking about refugee camps, Minister. We are talking about the Peristeri, New Ionia, where the problem arose, where people were kept from their lands. So the state gave them the right to build houses. I must remind you that the right to build up on the basis of town planning provisions was legal, since they were integrated into town plans. It cannot come after fifty or sixty years and say that the public interest, the interest in public property prevails. What I hear is a savings bank. I must say that the social interest prevails instead. I have made a proposal since last year - I imagine remembering - with two lines in a law to say that the presumption of ownership of the public is being lifted in the former forest areas that have been incorporated into the town plan. The governments concerned - and I am not only referring to yours, Madam Minister - many times within the framework of a customer or policy service have in whole regions lifted the presumption of public ownership. Let me remind you that your Government has lifted the presumption of public ownership in Mani because there has been pressure. But in New Ionia, in Peristeri, is it so difficult? And I'd ask you something else if you'd like. I do not think it helps the debate on this matter to say that the public has granted its land to the municipalities, because what has been granted was not allocated to solve problems for ordinary citizens who currently face claims from their homes, but made it within another policy. And to finish, I want to say two more things. The public, Mr President, - and I am waiting for the Minister's reply - has already proceeded with the conduct of the Vrilless - has been mobilised a few days ago - in apartments and claims the apartments and the cases of February. And say the last one. You referred to my second question, Mr President, which will not be answered. Do you know what's happened? It's not the State Secretary's responsibility. I've been waiting for Mr. Tsakalotos, but since I've had the opportunity, I'll say two words. With the S.H.I.E.L.D. where the tens of thousands of nineteen properties were transferred, has it never revealed that the gyms and nursing homes were transferred to the district of Attica? Don't question it, Minister. It is absolutely true what you say has been excluded from archaeologicals. I am not referring to archaeological matters, as other colleagues have said. It has been transferred to the Gymnasium of the children of Agia Barbara, the Day Center of Agia Barbara and the answer from the Ministry of Finance I don't get. To sum up, Mr President, I expect some specific answers. What will ultimately be the policy of the state? And I'm not talking about SYRIZA's government. I say that a state policy needs to solve the problem of these people, because it is more than twenty thousand claims through the Land register. They are twenty thousand houses that claim the public in Athens. I don't want to say anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, my colleague. Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u85	Following on from what I have brought to my prototype, I would like to point out the following: we are not actually closing our eyes. Many illegal owners of public land have been and exist in Greece. Many legalizations have been made in a way that gives rise to at least questions. But we also know that there are historically traditional areas for public use, without the legal title being given to them, such as the cases mentioned. In the context of the register which needs to be finalised - and we will do so - we are dealing with these categories fairly. The detailed examination is necessary because of the sensitive nature of the matter, but also because of the differentiation and differential of cases between them. The conceivable treatment of cases poses risks to the public interest, and that is why we do not adopt rough and unsatisfactory solutions, which, instead of solving the problem, give rise to new problems and deeper ones. The Advisory Committee set up by the Ministry of Finance was precisely that purpose and its views are a tool in resolving these issues. In the next few decades, we will have them at our disposal, and our aim is to resolve certain cases definitively, recognising the suffering of the citizens for decades. However, the solution on which we are already working should be justified by these special owners' cases in such a way that they do not neglect the legality and safeguarding of the public's interests. Unfortunately or happily, we are also called upon to resolve these chronic inadequacies or not, willingly or unwillingly - and we will do so in the best possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u86	I would ask you to submit these.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the sixth question under number 240/3-1-2019 in the second cycle (B) of MP I Piraeus, the Radical Left Coalition, Eleni Stamatakis, to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "The problem of housing services of the judiciary of Piraeus". The timely question will be answered by the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr Michael Kalogerou. Here, my colleague, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, a permanent request of over 50 years of the legal world of the Municipality of Piraeus, the wider region of the islands of Saronicos and all the institutions of the city is the housing of the judicial services - or most of them - in a modern and decent building, worthy of the history of the city and of the first port of the country. The solution chosen in the 1980s for the housing of the prosecutor's office, the prosecutor's office and the public prosecutor's office in the building of Sukouze was rough, without planning, for that time was an emergency solution, while until now the building is inappropriate, it houses these services and is still depriving the necessary emergency exits in the event of emergency. The housing of the rest of the services remains in public-leaved old and completely inappropriate buildings. The public pays around EUR 1,134,000 a year for the housing of these services in these buildings, which, of course, is inappropriate. At times there have been many searches for spaces, but they have not been successful. However, since 2015, the Ministry of Justice has announced the intention of the Ministry of Justice to finalise the problem of housing the most judicial services of the Municipality of Piraeus and indeed, housing them in the centre of the city, where the metro and tram will function very soon, next to the renovated historical Municipal Theatre of Piraeus, in the incomplete palace of the Rallio School. This building for forty years has been a shell in the centre of Piraeus, Minister, and on this side, a solution needs to be found. The municipal council of the Municipality of Piraeus has granted the Ministry of Justice this property. static studies have been carried out by the Ministry. Money has been given. However, the project is delaying and there is one concern in the Piraeus legal world, but also among the wider citizens, about what is going on in this process and how the project is progressing. I would like to ask you, Mr Minister, what is envisaged on your part and what timetable there is for the solution of the residence of the Piraeus court building.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u90	Mrs Stamaki, thank you very much for the question. It is a necessary question, which, in my opinion, should be updated at regular intervals, so that people involved in this matter, namely the legal world, the judiciary and, of course, the citizens and, in general, the Piraeus society, are aware of how exactly we implement the planning, how we move forward - step by step. I'm signing up to a point of your position. And you will see from the answer that I think we all need to find ourselves on the same page on the question of the housing of the judicial services, the primary court and the court of appeal at the Rallio School. In order to find ourselves on the same page and because the bodies involved - Grosso modo - are the Ministry of Justice, the TAXDIK and the Municipality of Piraeus, I know that there is a route to your questions and to questions from other Piraeus Members, so I will tell you what has happened over the last five months, that is, since I took office in the Ministry of Justice. First, a working group was set up in which all interested parties, i.e. both the municipality and the Ministry and the FIFG, are represented. I will therefore give you the decision to set up this group, which is not just a task force, but has already taken very critical steps to implement the project. On the basis of the work and the findings of this group, this group must record and record the parties' obligations. Secondly, the existing legal framework has been recorded. Thirdly, are the issues involved in the studies being addressed and, of course, a specific timetable is being recorded for the final purpose of what? The programme contract between the Municipality of Piraeus, the FAOIK and the Ministry of Justice for the start of the project. The first action, then, is the establishment of this group, which I think works creatively and effectively. Secondly, by way of a recent provision under Article 28 of Law No 4587/2018, we have explicitly included the possibility of funding from the FIFG, which in this provision is provided for in Article 28 that it can accept the concession of buildings, even for consideration. Why am I saying that? On the occasion of this question, it is important to clarify some technical details. What does it sound like in Piraeus? That there is the municipality, he has agreed to the concession of the building. For how long? Forty-nine years. Then what? Then - and that is why this provision has been made - there has to be - a question mark? - a lease relationship. What rent relationship will this be after the forty-nine years? Will it have a symbolic price, or will it be a commercial lease, which means that the commercial value of the property should also be taken into account? Third, on the basis of the findings of this group, the Municipality of Piraeus presented a 2012 appeal decision. I say this in order to clear up the landscape, because it is a great project, the success of which we will all want to believe. However, as far as the problems are concerned - and when I say problems, I mean procedures which are complex and need exceptional attention - each of the parties involved may want to create specific impressions for any reason, even unwittingly, for any reason. We have therefore dealt with the following question, that there is an irrevocable decision that states that the purpose of this donation was only to use this building as a school. So what did the ministry do? In cooperation with this working group, we have always sent a question to the Treasury concerning the granting of the use of this property, which we expressly request if the rights of the Greek State or the objections of the Ministry of Finance are raised as overseeing the national benets. We are in the process of waiting for the answer. Furthermore, for the reason I told you, in order to have a clear picture of whether there is a lease relationship after the age of forty-nine, we addressed to the competent DU, the IDU Piraeus - these have been made by December, Mr. Stamatakis - and we tabled this request, a request for an assessment of the property in view of the concession by the Municipality of Piraeus to TAXDIK for the use, which we asked for the objective and commercial value of the plot, the commercial value for the building on this ground semi-built construction and the lease value by square metre, etc. Already the DU Piraeus answered us. All these documents will be submitted to you. In dentistry, I will tell you what actions are needed at the moment and are being launched, on the one hand, by the Municipality of Piraeus, by the synergy between the technical services of the Ministry in cooperation with the FAO and the crucial issue of the financing of this project.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Here, my colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u92	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank you for the answers you have already given me to all the questions I have put to you. Still, it's been three years. There have been procedures and many entities involved in the city - the Municipality of Piraeus, the technical services, the town planning, the counter-region - but until now there is really no development. As I told you - but also from the answers you gave me - I see there is a greater involvement. I wanted to know what timetable you are putting as a ministry so that these procedures could be accelerated and the Piraeus society, the judiciary and the lawyers, can finally begin to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u93	Thank you. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u94	Mrs Stamaki, what is being presented as a delay is not a delay. It is essential to launch, take decisions and implement concrete actions. Do you know why I'm saying it? I say this because a registered will, which even appears to be common, does not mean - without anyone else - that it can proceed the next day. Why am I clarifying this? Because I fear, without any criticism of what has been preceding year, that the good intention, as recorded by the municipality, can often be brought to an end by the Minister himself, the technical services, from the FAO, to the good intention. Consider that I have taken note of specific publications dealing with the property regime, for example titles. That is why I told you that the establishment of the group was a very good decision, which brings results every day, because if a track - part - is not solved, we will not be able to be clear. Let me use the term "We will keep chasing our tails and trying to create impressions or delays or responsibilities over these delays". So I continue because the request is that and the Ministry's need is to account to you Members of Piraeus. It is precisely this process that should be transferred from the Piraeus society and the Piraeus Members to the municipality that you will always have a clear picture from both sides. We have therefore asked the municipality to ensure that there is no loose ends in this regard - I am referring to the property regime - the real estate cards with the records and the landmark charts relating to ownership. We asked the competent agency of the Municipality of Piraeus for a document on the existing urban situation, i.e. the building block, conditions of construction, etc. We've asked for a spatial status of the property. In relation to land use, we have asked for an amendment to the mooring plan in order to make use of a judicial palace. All that that seems to be delays or bureaucracy is the essence of the matter, so that we can actually have this work in order to use all of this in the studies. As far as technical services are concerned, the FIFG and the CBC - which is also involved in this project - is being finalised, after a detailed examination of the organic positions of the Piraeus courts. Finally, with regard to funding, the working party is currently doing a specific job in order to put forward a concrete proposal on financing, because there was no clear answer in this respect as to who would finance the project. Here, the solutions are the following: first, the FAO budget - one prisoner - and the Ministry. Secondly, the Public Investment Programme. So we can close funding from there too. There are also thoughts about the PPP. That is why I told you at the outset that it is good for this dialogue to be updated in order to check for you too - a step forward - how the Ministry's decisions are implemented. I sum up and conclude by saying that I want to be quite clear as this: the Ministry's will is clear, absolutely clear. This is reflected in the fact that we have caused all these actions and all these questions and all this armour, which has to do with the technical towns and - if you want - deciphering ultimately, the cover-up of responsibilities, who has to do what, who has to prepare how to study. You know, we say 'the studies are being prepared'. What does that mean when we have issues and loose ends like those that I have written to you? That is what I am closing down, Mr President, and thank you. Put on your account that the Ministry at the same time as it is called to solve the problem of Rallyo - and the problem of Rallyo will be solved - is, of course, a whole question of the housing of the Piraeus courts, because it is not just the primary court and the court of appeal. And you know that, very well that there are issues of the Peace Court, the Court of Justice and the Administrative Courts. We are in contact with the Piraeus Bar Association, both with the judicial associations and with the heads of the courts in Piraeus, in order to find alternatives to the rest of the spaces. The building, which will be liberated in order to transfer services to "Rallio" will be able to make corrections, which must of course be made, to house other services, which always concern justice, the subject of "Rallios judiciary magistrates of Piraeus". And put to the end, in your account, that the same Ministry and the same people and the same groups have been working to cover, lately since 2015, chronic problems of judges throughout the country, who are facing the problems that we can all imagine having faced the social state in that country, the structures of the social state. What happened in schools, what happened in the hospitals, also happened to all the courthouses in the country. There's been a memorial over courthouses. So we are dealing with the same problems in all the regions of the country, in all the courthouses, every day, with emergencies. I am not saying this in order to give you any explanation or justification for delays in Piraeus. The only reason for delaying Piraeus, in my opinion, is that it is a very big project, is a very big project and in order to give Piraeus society, we should all carry out our work, our tasks and we should all be safe that this work is going on. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-21-S1-commons.u96	With the consent of the House at the time of 19.43 the sitting for the next Wednesday, 23 January 2019, at 10.00, on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda to be distributed.
