ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-07-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 21-12-2018, the minutes of the IGC meeting held on Friday, 21 December 2018, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Urgent arrangements for the competence of the Ministry of Migration Policy and other provisions’.]] The Members of Parliament, Mr Metarakis and Mr Christos Bukos, from New Democracy and Mr Nasos Athanasios from SYRIZA request permission from a short-day absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-07-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. I would also like to inform the House that the Minister of Education, Research and Religion, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government - Minister of Economy and Development, and the Minister of Interior, Finance, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Culture and Sport, Rural Development and Food, the Deputy Ministers of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Economy and Development, Education, Research and Religious Affairs and Culture and Sports, submitted on 28-12-2018 draft law: “National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Agronomic University of Thessaly with T.E.I. Thessaly and Central Greece, Pallemnikos Fund and other provisions". The Minister of National Defence, the Minister of Finance and the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, tabled a draft law on the placement of a National Association Representative at the Headquarters of the Supreme Alliance of Transformation and Exchanges of Letters extending the validity of the above Memorandum. They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committees. The Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: "Following the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Supreme Allied Commander of Transformation (SACT) and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, on the placement of a National Association Representative at the Headquarters of the Supreme Alliance of Transformation and the Exchanges of Letters extending the validity of the above Memorandum". Finally, the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity submitted to Parliament the text of the International Labour Recommendation number 205 and titled: "Recommendation on Employment and Decent Work for Peace and Adjustment", adopted by the 106th International Labour Conference (June 2017). Members concerned may request copies of Parliament's Legislative Works Directorate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-07-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before we begin the debate on topical and urgent questions scheduled for today, I have the honour of announcing the following to the House: The first, with number 240/3-1-2019, top-level question for the first cycle of the Piraeus Parliament, the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Helen Stamatakis, to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "The problem of housing services of the judiciary of Piraeus" will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of Justice. The second question under number 238/3-1-2019 of the first cycle of the Parliamentary Serres of New Democracy, Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Other the Ministry of Finance for the monuments and properties of great historical and cultural value, which passed in the Supreme Court", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotou. The fourth under number 242/3-1-2019 topical question for the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning "with the transfer of real estate to a Public Property Company (ETAD) - Fund for the Development of the Private Property of the Government (THEPT)", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr.Eklidis Tsakalotos. The third, with number 241/3-1-2019, top-circuit question by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "It will finally protect our state's fellow citizens from unjust claims made by the public, by means of the Creation?", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr.Akaterini Papanatsiou, due to a workload. The 3143/281/7-11-2018 question and application for the submission of documents by the Deputy Drama of New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Health, concerning "the operation of the Ophthalmological Clinic of the General Hospital of Drama", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Pavlos Polakis on account of a workload. There is also the letter from the Secretary of the Council of Ministers confirming the reasons for the absence of the above-mentioned ministers. One question will be discussed, the first under number 239/3-1-2019, the second time question from the New Democracy MP, Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister of National Defence, on "The former 409 General Military Hospital of Patras remains". The question will be answered by the State Secretary for National Defence, Maria Collia-Charuchha. Here, Mr Katsaniotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-07-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I would like to give you a very small history of the last two years for the 409 General Military Hospital of Patras. In April 2017, the relocation was practically over, because it was hosting a section of the hospital "Agios Andreas". The hospital expanded, the new wing was ready. From the end of April - early May 2017, the relocation to its central building, "Agios Andreas", is over. Since then some discussions have started on what is going to happen with this property, a building very close to the city centre, a large building, which has hosted health structures in the past. In July, after a timely question to Mr Vitsa, they had discussed the possibility of having a primary health structure as a military hospital, since the area has too many military, security bodies. This is the wider area - Messolongi, Andravida, Araxos - which could, in fact, help them there. With a surprise, the Ministry told me that at the end of the day, while Mr. Vitsas was positive, it can't be done. Finally, before October 2018, after a meeting with the commander of the 6th RS, the 6th health district, he told me that there is a thought to build a health structure in this hospital. What I ask is this: Is there any such proposal to your Ministry so that we can have a new health structure from the 6th Ministry? Is there any thought from you so that this property, which has been made with the Greek taxpayer's money, will not be ripped off? Because we're going through there, we see it closed, we see it with wires and it really has to go back to life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-07-S1-commons.u5	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-07-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, I too would like to wish a good year, with health for the new year and good work for the Greek Parliament. From what I have seen in the file, from what you have said and as I have been informed, Mr President, and I will not go far, because it seems to be a well-known subject that you are following it - and I think it is very important - that you have already received two responses under parliamentary control on the use of this former 409 General Military Hospital. It is a question to the former ANYTHE, Mr. Vitsa, with a corresponding timely question and more recently, with a written question to the most recent former ANYTHE, Mr. Kouvelis. So what's happened? In January 2018, the delivery of the property from the Ministry of Health to the HETH was completed. It has been given to the HETH, i.e., this hospital with a letter of 15 January with a delivery-receipt protocol. This was therefore included in the lists of real estate no longer used by the Greek Army for military purposes, in order to exploit from the Armed Forces Property Response Service the well-known YEAPD. However, because of an incorrect initial registration of the property in question in the National Register as the ownership of the Greek State, as provided for in the Act, it cannot be exploited directly. That is why the ETH has already taken the necessary steps to correct this false registration, and we soon think that the issue will be resolved. I would like to make it clear to you at this point that, despite what has been said in this Chamber, the TTEHA has so far not received any requests from the Ministry of Health, as you have said - and it may have been a very good solution - in order to reap the property in mind as a hospital. Therefore, the Ministry of National Defence should have granted it - and at this point we agree that this property should not be left at the mercy of natural deterioration - and it was decided that this hospital, in 409 General Military Hospital of Patras, will be exploited by the Ministry of Defence on the basis of Law 4407/2016, once this typical error has been settled, which was mentioned earlier, with the Register. In conclusion, my briefing to you is that the former General Military Hospital has been selected by the U.S.S.EA. for immediate use as a private clinic - so at least this service, the U.S.S.S.S.EA., as a private clinic through an electronic auction, as foreseen by the law. In fact, by decision of the Defence Council, again as foreseen by law, the terms of the electronic auction for the rental of this property were approved at a starting price of EUR 660,000, i.e. EUR 55,000 per month, as an annual lease for twenty years. This means that a person concerned should be found in order to take care of it, use it and make it a clinic. This should therefore be credited and charged to the Ministry of Defence as positive, that it is exploiting and very quickly benefiting the army any property that has been declared not to be necessary for the needs of the Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-07-S1-commons.u7	I would like to clarify this: If I understood it correctly because of the vulnerability of the Ministry of Health, this property of the Ministry of National Defence, since the Ministry of Health was not interested, correctly, in order to use it, you took it out in an auction to become a private clinic.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-07-S1-commons.u8	If I may, Mr President, not because of oligopoly, but because of a choice of planning.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-07-S1-commons.u9	It's all over the place. He wouldn't want to use a ready-to-use building for a civil-type health center. That's what I understood as a doctor. In any case, we won't fight about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-07-S1-commons.u10	We're not competent.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-07-S1-commons.u11	He's not responsible for the Department of National Defence. That's clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-07-S1-commons.u12	Yes, yes, alas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-07-S1-commons.u13	Here, Mr Katsaniotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-07-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I really think that in this particular matter, because it is a matter that I have followed, I have also found a response - I must say it - from the Ministry of National Defence. He's here, he's answering. But I haven't found the same thing from the Department of Health. As the President said a moment ago, it is a large unit - because we are really talking about a very large building - which we have all paid for. If the Ministry of Health thinks it's not making any move yet, even though it did local press conferences - and I'm talking about the 6th Ministry of Health - that it needs it, I will agree that the Ministry of National Defence has no responsibility. From my point of view, when a property, which - I insist - is an investment by the Greek citizen can actually bring more profit and live again, for me it is really very pleasant. And because this government has not gotten used to us in such procedures, that is to say, trying to find private investors to get a real estate, use it and use it, I really am delighted. But what I would like to know - and without really wanting to press things - is a timetable. So, this will be able to come out in a month, in five months, in six months, in one year in this electronic auction? Or is it just about the technical problem? One more thing. If the Ministry of Health comes back and says "I didn't know and care", will this process be frozen or really started and will it go to the end? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-07-S1-commons.u15	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-07-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, too. These are issues which obviously also relate to the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. As far as the NSDP is concerned, there is a probable procedure. I can't tell you right now if it will stop, but it makes sense that the public interest takes precedence if it is judged so. However, once it has been in the hands of, let me say quite simply, this service of the Ministry of National Defence, this and the Military Council will decide whether to give it back for a public purpose. We've started the process. Therefore, a year has passed for the Ministry of Health to decide whether it would be used as a centre of civil health or anything else, that is, as a structure of the Ministry of Health. I therefore believe that we have been in the process of utilizing the NSDP. So any other conversation, I think it can't happen. And wishing for a private person to be found and wishful work. There is a very good or bad private health initiative. Regarding your comment on investments, I would like to say that I wish investment in the country would be made. It is not just frugalness of this government or any weakness. Unfortunately, even in our country, although we still have - although we have - this crisis - the investments were not made to the extent and at the speed we had and need, not only because some politicians did not want it - but mainly because the state mechanism or, anyway, the procedures envisaged are not being carried out at the appropriate speed so that steps can be taken towards the development of investment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-07-S1-commons.u17	The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-07-S1-commons.u18	With the consent of the House at 18.17, the meeting for the next Wednesday, 9 January 2019 at 9.30', on the subject of Parliament's work, legislative work: only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: "Strengthening the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Supreme Allied Commander of Transformation (SACT) and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, on the placement of a National Liaison Representative at the General of the Hellenic Alliance and the Exchanges of Letters extending the validity of the above Memorandum", in accordance with the agenda distributed to you.
