ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-31-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 30-1-2019 mandate, the Minutes of the FPI meeting held on Thursday, January 30, 2019, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Association of Higher Personnel Selection Council (PSC)’. Aid and upgrading of public administration and other provisions’]] Before entering the debate on topical and urgent questions, I would like to ask the House if it agrees, because it is a day of grief today because of the fallen in Imia, to keep a minute of silence, to rise to honor our dead. [[I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council to give us an answer on this matter.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS I have the honour to announce to the House the topical and urgent questions bulletins of Friday, February 1, 2019 and Friday, January 25, 2019. Oh, I'm sorry. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 305/28-1-2019 by Mr Athanasios Bourrais, Member of the Republic of Attica, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Prescribing Municipal Units of Megalo and Oinoi". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 294/22-1-2019 by the Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the PASOK Mr Dimitrios Kremastinou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "An unequal exclusion of teachers from claiming jobs for laboratory managers and for clinics". 3. The 309/28-1-2019 topical question by MP 2 Thessaloniki of the Independent Greeks Mr Aristides Fokas to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Social structures of municipalities". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 306/28-1-2019 topical question by MP Kastoria of New Democracy Mrs Maria Antonios to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Examination of student transfer objections". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question raised by Mr Mikhail Jelloni, the Minister of Economy and Development, on "The state of the Greek Sugar Industry (EBZ)" by Mr Serres of PASOK, Member of the European Parliament, with number 300/28-1-2019. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 4556/21-12-2018 by MP Heraklion of PASOK Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of State and Government, on the subject: "It continues to insist on the Ministry of Shipping on the unacceptable exception of Crete from Transport Equivalent". "B" A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 293/22-1-2019 of the current question by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis to the Minister of Migration Policy, on "Direct and Urgent Actions for the Decongestion and Identifying Centre for Samos and Management of the Protracted Crisis". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 285/21-1-2019 topical question by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios Prize to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Transfer of membership from the Medical School of the Democrat University of Thrace to the newly established University of Western Attica". 3. The 290/22-1-2019 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the "Capetagonal" building in Heraklion Crete. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 286/21-1-2019 topical question by MP II Athens, New Democracy, Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the "economic situation of Greek Posts". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 291/22-1-2019 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Yiannis Delis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, about the "transfer of students from musical and artistic schools". 3. Under No 269/14-1-2019, a topical question by Congressman I Piraeus, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The government is calling for a selective partition of municipalities with micro-participatory criteria, just before the municipal elections, causing confusion and inconvenience." 4. Under No 265/11-1-2019, a topical question by PASOK MP Mr. Odyssey Constantinople to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "At what stage is the project to attract visitors to Lake Ladona, amounting to EUR 1,289,618?" 5. The Question by No 270/14-1-2019, by Mr Charalambos Athanasiou, Member of the Commission, to the Minister for the Interior, on the subject of the "Democracy of the Municipality of Lesvos". 6. The question by No. 279/15-1-2019 of the current question by MP Heraklion of PASOK Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Direct actions to integrate Crete into the Transport Equivalent". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Argolidas of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Gilolas to the Minister for Environment and Energy about air pollution in Nafplio by a firework on the coast road of Neos Kyos in the Argolikos Gulf. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 2854/29-10-2018 question by MP Drama of the New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "with the transfer of a membership of the LAG from the Medical School of the Democritus University of Thrace to the newly established University of Western Attica". 3. The No 591/29-11-2018 report by PASOK MP Rodopi, Ilhan Ahmet, Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Timeline of the Muslim priesthoods of Thrace". A topical and urgent debate will be held today. Before entering the debate, I will read out the timely questions that will not be discussed. The second question, under number 303/28-1-2019, of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Argolidas, Ioannis Andrianos to the Minister for Development and Food, on the subject: "Great and unjustified delays in the implementation of the extension of the Palais to Koutsopodi, Mycenas, Monastery, Fichatis and Ermionidas", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, because there will be a symposium in Thessaloniki on the events for Zootechnia. The second question, under number 304/28-1-2019, of the second question of the New Democracy MP, Charalambou Athanasios, to the Minister for Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Increasing the approved budget for the Improving Plans for the Northern Aegean Region’, will not be debated as a result of an impediment to the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, because it will be present in Thessaloniki on the occasion of the events for ZOTECHNIA. The first, with number 298/28-1-2019, topical question of the second question of the Samos MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Conservation, Development and Continuing Operation of the Social Security Offices in Karlovasi Samos and Eugenios Ikaria", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Anastasios Petropoulos, due to the fact that he will be outside Athens. The third, with number 315/29-1-2019, topical question from the Z Vice-President of the Parliament and Independent MEP I, Spyridon Lykoudi, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on 'the living and working conditions of migrants in New Manola after the fire', will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mrs.Achtsioglou, due to a workload. The third, with number 301/28-1-2019, timely question by the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEGROGlou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The indifference of the Ministry of Transport on the problem that created the same and do not carry out tests for driving will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Christos Spirtzis, due to an official trip abroad. The fourth under number 284/21-1-2019 topical question for the Second Cycle of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Papapas to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: “Albanian street developments in the creation of “Greek Albania” will not be discussed. The fifth, with number 280/17-1-2019, is a topical question for the second of Parliamentary I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "The co-management of the Aegean is promoted by the Government", will not be discussed. The sixth question, with number 260/9-1-2019, is a second question for the Piraeus People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouziou to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Protection of crews from abandonment of a ship of inland waterways”, will not be discussed. The seventh question under number 261/9-1-2019 of the Second Cycle of the Greek People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Anthony Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "About the Macedonian Museum and other institutions, associations and unions of Macedonia and Article 6 of the Greek-Skopje Agreement", will not be discussed. The eighth Question No 263/9-1-2019 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Foreign Minister, on the subject: "Cazan ready to explode the state of Skopje", will not be discussed. For all this, there is also a letter from the Secretariat of the Government and Mr Gaitatzis. We will start the debate with the first under number 297/28-1-2019 on the first question of the first cycle of the MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Karagiannidis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on "the state of Drama Municipal Stadium". Mr Georgios Vasiliadis will reply to the current question by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport. Mr Karayannides, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-31-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the street in Drama, the National Stadium, as known to the Dragons and Dramas, has a long history of the country's sports data. Many athletes and many athletes have been trained and distinguished in the country, but also pan-European and Olympians, such as Costas Duvalides, who has European and Balkan medals, but also has significant discrimination in the Olympic Games. The question is that a problem with the scales has arisen for several years, which have been identified as inappropriate. However, a solution does not appear on the horizon that helps athletes as well as spectators to be able to watch games that, as you know, are not organized because of the ban on fans in the stands. Unfortunately, the main problem, however, is that the space under the scales was used as a gym in winter for the athletes of the track, but at the moment this thing is impossible, as a result of what training is done, to be done in the light of the day, that is, until five or six in the evening in winter and beyond the field actually close. I am aware of the important intervention of the Ministry with the Philodis programme, where funding will be given for such projects, but I believe that at the National Stadium the interventions should be a little more and why the auxiliary spaces for coaching and warming for athletes are needed, but above all because this project, that is to say, to drop the scales and build new ones, may exceed the amount given by a municipality and by a racing sports area. Of course, I do not know what the municipalities of Drama have said about that and it is a question. The five municipalities of Drama Regional Unit, what exactly have they submitted as a proposal if they have submitted? However, this stadium seems to me to be a stadium that we must also pay to the sporting space for the damages that exist and are not replaced, but also to be able to help a world that deals with amateurly and massively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-31-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Karayannides. Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-31-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Karayannides, the situation of the National Stage Drama is well known because of its importance, but also because of the fact that, beyond the track, it also hosts one of the largest - historical - Greek groups, the Glory Dramas. Let's see what we do. We have decided these four years to work and use the Public Investment Programme. We've done it, and we've increased it by 300% in sports infrastructure. We have now drawn up the 'Philodis' programme, as you quite rightly said, of EUR 50 million, which provides for financing projects of up to EUR 600,000 plus VAT. It does not mean that larger projects are excluded, just all the discount goes to the municipalities and not to the Ministry of Interior. With this policy we want to give local communities, local authorities, the first reason for the projects to be done and not the Ministry itself, because we believe that this is how you give self-government powers, so you seriously decentralise policies. However, the term and condition for a project are to be studied. For the national stage, no proposals for study have been made at the service over time, as the competent department has informed us. What could be done? Since there is a study, because the problem is a great one and the region and the needs of the region are great - given that there is no other sporting facility with these standards nearby - we could discuss the extensive interventions needed, since I repeat we have studies and create another financial instrument. That's what we're trying to do, and we're doing it all over the place where we have specific problems. We are making and finding ways to intervene, whether in cooperation with the regions or with other programmes of the Ministry of Development or with other programmes of the Ministry of Interior. We're looking for solutions. The point is, there must be the proposal, we must discuss it in order to find a solution. On our own, in a situation which does not belong to the public, the General Secretariat of Sports, it is difficult to take any initiative.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-31-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-31-S1-commons.u6	The proposal I have to make is to meet with the municipality of Drama, see, perhaps with a visit to Drama, just the conditions of the field and see the sports areas that the county has. Indeed, they are enough, but this field serves, as I have said before, hundreds of children, mainly with amateur logic, but several of these children are even more distinguished in sports performance. We do need to see financial instruments that could be extended beyond the proposal of the 'Philodis' programme, and this is indeed the case for this stage to be extended to the level of serious training of very good athletes. It makes me sad that there are no proposals, no studies submitted. It is indeed a 20-year problem. And when there is a 20-year problem, it is indeed important that there should be no proposal from any self-government authority, whether it is a region or a municipality. So let's have a talk about how we can get out of this dead end. On this field, the Pandramatics plays. Glory's not playing. I mean, it's Pandramatic's old court. Once the scales have been identified as inappropriate, there are no football matches. For at least three years, as far as I know, the ban has been hard. He started getting tougher than he was before. There are no races. There are no track matches. We have the only field on which international struggles could take place. In this particular case, you should know that about twenty years ago, as far as I remember, it had become a world record of 100 meters of women with obstacles. It is a field where they became Balkans, Mediterraneans and international struggles. We need to see how we can reopen this stadium, and for reasons of sporting interest in the region, because all the intra-regional races are forced to take place on fields other than Drama. You are right, however, that there must be a study of any proposal to be built up. I think that the money that is needed is not too much at the level of what we can do, but we have to sit on a table with the mayor and discuss the outlets we have in order to find an economic solution to enable this stadium to become active again and host athletes and spectators who will watch national and international struggles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-31-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Karayannides. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-31-S1-commons.u8	If it's not for Glory Drama, let's not talk about it! I'll go along with you. To make progress in the next few months in the process of meeting with local bodies to find a solution. As I said to you before, it can also join the Public Investment Programme, given that the 'Philodis' programme - what we have created and at the level to which it varies - will solve all the other issues and will include the largest part of the projects that we, even we, have had unresolved. That was the purpose of creating this tool. This means that we have larger'refreshments' in the Public Investment Programme to incorporate larger projects. In any case, what we need to see and what we are looking at in all our facilities is how we can increase our daily hours of use. So, look at the electrics and look at the closed sports spaces for the track, and most of all at a time when we are making extensive interventions in sports infrastructures. It is the first time after many years, over a decade, that serious investments and rehabilitation are made in sports facilities. There is, indeed, a great gap in your region. As long as there's a gap in the installation, so there's a gap in talent production, because to be able to paralyse a talent and parade an athlete, you have to have the conditions to create it in principle. Therefore, for us, if there is a study - I state it publicly - it will be a matter of priority to proceed to any restoration. If we don't go to total now, at least start taking the first steps now to make the installation useful. The point is that there should be a study.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-31-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister, and for the economy in time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Committee on Revision of the Constitution is tabling its report, in accordance with Rule 119 of the Rules of Procedure. Also, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-five students and students and three teachers from the 1st Glyfada General School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Unfortunately, you entered the Chamber at the time of the end of the procedure. We have had a timely question, and that is why you see there is only one Member and the Minister. The MEP exercises his right to ask the Minister a question and to have a fruitful dialogue between them. Unfortunately, you've come to the end. Nevertheless, we welcome you and wish that your tour in the House will be useful to you. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-31-S1-commons.u10	With the consent of the House at 10 a.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, February 1, 2019, at 10 a.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: parliamentary scrutiny, discussion of current questions.
