ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: In accordance with Parliament's 12-12-2019 authorisation, the minutes of the SZ's meeting, Thursday 12 December 2019, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Support programme for credit institutions securitisations’, were ratified under the responsibility of the Bureau.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS First of all, I will read to you the document of the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs, informing the House of the following: ‘We hereby inform you of the debate on the topical and urgent questions under parliamentary scrutiny on Friday 13 December 2019 that the topical questions to be debated are as follows: Question No 299/9-12-19 will be answered by the Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Staikos. Question No 305/9-12-2019 will be answered by the Minister of Health, Mr Vassilis Kikilia. Questions Nos 293/3-12-2019, 294/12-2019 and 313/10-12-2019 will be answered by the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Mr Constantine Ah. Karamanlis. Questions Nos 310/10-12-2019 and 312/10-12-2019 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Apostolos Vesiropoulos. Questions Nos 295/9-12-2019 and 308/10-12-2019 will be answered by the State Secretary for Civil Protection Mr Eleftherios Economou. Question No 309/10-12-2019 and Question No 1530/25/10-2019 and Questions Nos 1674/4-11-2019 pursuant to Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr Dimitrios Economou. The conclusion is that all the timely questions tabled will be answered. I would like to make a request to everyone, and I have read the relevant document to the honourable Members and to the ministers, to try to be in time, because then we have to start the debate on the bill. We begin with the fourth with the number 313/10-12-2019 top-level question by the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Mr Manolis Synthraki, with regard to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Building the North Road Axis of Crete (BOAK)". Here, Mr Synthraki, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the Northern Road Axis of Crete remains today, most of it, as was built fifty years ago. Of course, even worse is the situation in the rest of the road network. The unacceptable roadblock, the damaged bridges, the outdated speed limits prevailing throughout the North Road, the landslides due to weather phenomena, with shortcomings in support measures, are the main causes of tens of accidents with a large percentage of dead and severely injured. Any projects - semi-metres and improvements to date have only been limited to the level of tourist areas, Gouves - Malia, and what seems to be being done to meet the requirements of the big tourist capital. Minister, over the past twenty years all governments over the years, PASOK, New Democracy, New Democracy - PASOK, SYRIZA, now New Democracy, have constantly made promises to build and of course continuous deferred over time. There are contours between construction groups, which I think is a common secret of all and conflicts between governments. Meanwhile, the world is still being killed and a solution has not been found. The procrastination, in our view, relates primarily to the fact that a solution is being sought so that, on the one hand, the construction is done by individuals and, on the other hand, the profits of the construction groups are secured and, on the other hand, the state will put the least possible funding and the costs of transporting to users by imposing tolls. Is he going to be on a concession? Will it be with a public-private partnership? Will it include state borrowing? Is he going to be through an ESDP? Will it be a little bit of everything? What will it be? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is only clear from this that the basic aim of the governments over time is not road safety and the service of the people, but rather to ensure a certain and direct profit for one or the other part of the construction groups interested in the project. The question, of course, is that people are already paying unbearable taxes and traffic charges, which end up in the pockets of business groups and are not being exploited to meet people's needs, such as a modern, safe, free motorway. So we ask you, Minister, what measures you intend to take, the government, in order to build directly and without further delay in Crete the Northern Axis, from Kissamos to Sitia, and a modern safe road network in Crete, with free access, without tolls or other forms of exploitation and lending, with exclusive funding from the state budget. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u3	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Konstantinos Karamanlis, has the floor for his answer for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u4	My dear colleague, I will begin by saying that we in the New Democracy have not made any promise, but none at all. And you are absolutely right when you say that for over two decades, too many governments, local rulers, ministers and political persons have promised the Northern Axis of Crete, but have not answered one key question: where will the money be found? I repeat. How will funding be found for this project? Here, of course, we with the Communist Party have a very big ideological difference. I respect the opinion of the Communist Party that everything must be done in the form of public works, but the reality, European reality, requires that we move on to new financial instruments, such as concessions. And let me tell you something else, my dear colleague. The New Democracy since 2008 had told the ultimate truth to the Greek people. When the other major motorways were becoming the concession system, the Minister for Infrastructure had clearly said that this project alone as a concession cannot come out. That was a reality that we left and forgot. So what is the situation today? The situation today is that we received a competition for expressions of interest in July. It was a pencil on the map, without engraving, with the barbaric title 'approved for engraving', for which no one exists, but no study maturity. So where are we now? We don't have a study, we don't even have a drawing, I'm not talking about an environmental impact study, and at the moment there is no guaranteed funding. So let's see what we're gonna do. I should like to point out here, Mr President, that we have a partition in three parts, as you quite rightly said, one as a public work, the other as a PPP, the other as a concession contract. What SYRIZA hid, because you see SYRIZA had a huge ability to do white and present a virtual reality - was that the concessions were tolled. And not only did SYRIZA have a toll, but it also had a toll hidden, it had a subsidy of EUR 108 to 120 million a year, that is, this project would cost 4.5 billion over thirty-five years. As you can see, these resources do not exist. If we can be honest for once, it is to see whether we have or do not have the resources. So what are we trying to do? Firstly, we are trying and have already prepared an economic study, to find a way to fund this project. We have two options. The first option is to use revenues from another concession to finance it. But that wants the approval of lenders, that is the reality, and we are in constant negotiations with them. If we cannot make use of this tool, we should see whether with returns of some money from the central banks, the so-called returns of the central banks, we can finance such a project, which is over 1.5 billion. It is a difficult technical work, which will begin to be constructed at the earliest in 2022, because there is no studying maturity. So we will very soon present you with a plan for the uplift and reconstruction of Crete. The construction stagnation that hit the island over the last four years will stop. We'll find money to build the road. I told you two cases. Unfortunately, here our disagreement is that we want private people on the street. And I would like to inform you that the precursor work at the airport of Castellios, which had been stuck for two years, will immediately begin and we are ready to begin, which, my dear colleague, is a concession contract project. This is the process in Europe, to have individuals, together with the state, involved in the creation of major infrastructures. Unfortunately, the solution you prefer, you will allow me to say, today is not possible and is hardly implemented anywhere in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Synthrakis has the floor for three minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u6	Minister, obviously in our ideological differences it divides us into abyss, but I think we do not have a short memory, and we can draw conclusions from the policy implemented over time by the governments within the European Union. I would say to you that only yesterday a bill on state guarantees was passed in the banks, where a new year's 'gift' of 12 billion euros was given for the securitisations of non-performing loans. That is, basically, a carabinate, a new recapitalisation of banks, in front of all the others who touched around 120 billion, not to say about all the other measures to support large capital over time by all governments. There, where did you get the money? How did you thus find it, with the 'apal' of the hand, which we say in Crete, you have given a veil of billions to boost large capital, in the context of this sustainable development, and you are unable to finance with 1.5-2 billion a work of breath, a life-threatening project, and to stop traffic accidents and deaths in Crete? So there is a way to build a modern, safe road network, with the sole responsibility of the state, that is, in public terms, without any burden on the people. I would expect some kind of self-criticism on your part on behalf of the New Democracy. Because the New Democracy is neither a virginity nor a government now. The New Democracy, over time, ruled the place over many years, too many decades. This work has been unresolved for over twenty years. So what was the New Democracy's policy over the past few years to solve this problem? The attitude of all governments - not only now that you are, but also of the previous ones - gives us the right to say that the solution to the construction and operation of the new motorway to private tolls also needs an appropriate justification for public opinion to accept it. In our opinion, the more impoverished the Northern Road Axis, the more deaths there are, the more pressure will be put on the public that the only board of salvation is its concession to private interests and we are very well aware of the paid, structured studies carried out by various individuals to show that the Cretans accept the logic of tolls. Of course, if they're killed by dozens, hundreds, and you put the knife in their throats, they're going to take that kind of choice at some point. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In our view - and yesterday and today, both SYRIZA and the Government of New Democracy - are playing games on this issue. I will not tell you that projects with mature studies that exist in the Development Agency, about 100 million euros, have been depreciated in relation to the North Road Lake, the upgrades of existing roads, roads that are really carniols on the North Road, and there are mature studies. Why have all these issues not gone so far? So the delays that are being made are, in our view, the result of the dispute as to whether the engraving will be at the edge of the existing coastal road or whether it will move inside the North Road, with more tunnels, etc. It is about construction costs and what is of interest to individuals, one or the other construction company. Is it going to be a collapse on the existing road or more southerly, internal to the existing one? Are we going to tear down hotels? How many tunnels will there be? How much is one solution or another? Which solution is of benefit to each other or to the other company? Is it or isn't it? It's a common secret downstairs. These are said, they are heard, they are not our words. It is like what you said, that now life and security of the inhabitants have been brought to the Profruit of the demands of the great capital, of the European Union's policy, which you are obviously serving faithfully, in the context of ideological cleanliness of defending the interests of big capital.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Synatiakis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u8	That is why we are telling you again that Crete, the inhabitants, need such a Northern Axis, safe, modern, with the sole responsibility of the state. And here it is - and I conclude, Mr President - that the greatness of the position of the JRC's proposal is that only within the framework of another authority, with the socialized means of production and free of the burdens of such imperialist organisations, such as the European Union, the OECD and saying, could really be such a Northern Axis, not only for Crete, as a whole, in the transport sector. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u9	So where we're going, with twice the time, we're not gonna finish this afternoon. That is why I would ask that what I said at the beginning be done. The Minister, Mr Karamanlis, has the floor for three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, I will be very brief. First of all, as far as your argument is concerned, about why we give 12 billion elsewhere and not public works, I think that is a very simple argument and is made for reasons of impression. You know much better than I do that every modern country in the European Union needs a robust banking system. That's a reality. So don't say why we're giving money here and we're not giving it there. For there are specific procedures and regulations imposed by the European Union. I know that the Communist Party is against our membership of the European Union, but unfortunately we do not live in the world of the Communist Party, but we live in a world in which Greece is a Member State of Europe. So it's good not to say things the way we want to. Because, you know, left tumultulation sometimes goes off limits. Yes, the wish of all of us would be to have 2 billion today to start the North Road. We don't have one. So what are we gonna do now? Are we going to call our wish? Of course not. Obligation on the state and the government is to find solutions. The solutions presented for four and a half years were to throw ash in the eyes of the Cretan people and tell him fairy tales. Because, in the way that SYRIZA wanted to do the work without having done any study, without having any drawings, it was to subscribe the work with 600 million - that the Greek people did not have to pay, that is, the state budget - to put tolls and tolls on so-called tolls, that is to say to subsidise the project every year with 120 million. This money, then, does not exist. And yes, we are proud to be a centre-right patriotic party, which we first in 2007 and 2008 brought - while all the other Parliament and the other political parties were against - individuals with concessions, risking, investing and putting money on the roads we have today, the five motorways. I mean something else. You are in favour of the view that toll should not be tolled to Crete. To understand that we're a party we're not lying to. We have told the Prime Minister's mouth from the outset that we will consider getting tolled in Crete. And that's something we call it. We understand that it has a political cost. Who wants to pay tolls? But we live at a time when he's a user, he pays. This is, unfortunately or fortunately, the practice that exists in the European Union. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] What have we done so far and what are we going to do? First of all, we're talking about the whole project. The whole project will be built. It won't break into pieces. And we will tell you - and I will tell you if you want to do so in the Minutes - that specific studies have been auctioned at the moment. Four tenders were opened for the award of geotechnical research - it is the first procedure we need to do - for the Souda - Exante with a budget of 1,3 million euros, also for the Exante-Linoprea section with a budget of 1,2 million euros and for the Hersonissos section - Neapolis with a budget of 0,5 million euros, as well as an open tender for the award of a contract of supervision and evaluation of these geotechnical research, which is necessary to start the procedure. Because, unfortunately, my dear colleague, that has not been done either by the previous government. We are, therefore, committed. Mr. Mitsotakis himself as Chief of Officer Representation had come down to Crete and had raised road safety issues. And he said that this road, like Patras - Tower Street, is a shame not to have been completed. And we'll find the money with the help of private individuals to finally make this road. Because, I feel that the majority of the Greek people will agree with the view that it is better to pay a reasoned cost for the use of a motorway than for so many lives to be lost over the years. So there will be a solution. But first of all, since the procedures are running and running - such as studies, geotechnical environmental studies, see where engraving is going - we have to find the most important of all, namely funding. And that's what we're ready for, and we'll be ready to announce it very soon. Because, as you can see, the money doesn't grow in trees. And we must be honest once and not announcing projects without funding. Because you quite rightly said - and I am closing down with that - that for thirty years we have been discussing this major infrastructure project. If there was money, it would have been a dear colleague. And with all due respect, I think it is unfair to move the finger on a new government that is five months old and is currently trying to tell the truth and find money to be able to set a specific timetable for when the process of building this road will begin. And I would agree with you that it is absolutely necessary and we should not at one time discuss it, but start it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u11	We continue with the fifth under No 293/12-2019 current question of the first cycle of the Greek Parliamentary State, Mr. Vassiliourdou, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "OHIM Convention (Public Service or Infertile Lines)". Here, Mr Villardo, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the RAS, as regards the structure of the rail network in Greece, was founded in 2010, that is, when the memoranda began. They are no longer controlled by the government or by any other Greek administrative authority, but by the European Union. The companies covered by the FEK arrangement were OSE and ‘TRAINOSE’. The privatization of the OSE began as usual by Mr. Hadjidakis with his dear method of cutting and plunging, as with Olympic in the past, with PPC today, with PPC in the future, and so on. I'll testify to it in the Minutes all at once. In addition, the ‘TRAINOSE’ was sold to FSI in September 2017 for EUR 45 million. In fact, Greece had to sell ‘TRAINOSE’ from the European Union through the European Commission’s investigation into State aid launched in 2011. In 2013, the EBRD was established with the supreme owner. This company, which is the sole accredited body by the RA for the maintenance of railway equipment, was sold in April 2019 to the Italian now ‘TRAINOSE’ compared with 22 million with the approval of the Competition Committee. How it is possible for the committee to approve a monopoly is something that we cannot answer. Although it's not about your government, it's about the previous one. A state-owned company, therefore, "TRAINOSE" has been effectively subsidised by the 692 million, due to the OSE and cancelled against only EUR 45 million for the acquisition, has the monopoly on the provision of railway services in Greece with the wishes of the Competition Committee. In addition, it is subsidized with EUR 50 million per year by the public for the service of barren lines, while according to the journalistic survey - which we will present in the Minutes and for which you are being placed - not only the barren but all the lines are subsidised. And we do not know whether the Italians comply with the convention, which we have not seen. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It was recently announced that a contract was signed with TRAINOSE, so that it would be awarded for 15 years to EUR 50 million per year for barren lines, i.e. the status and cost of PSOs in force until 2020. The total cost of the contract therefore amounts to EUR 750 million. Our questions and our request here are as follows: First, why is the grant of a substantial monopoly on the Italian state railways for 15 years, excluding future competitors when appropriate auctions are made in air, sea and road transport annually? If you answer that because the Italians will invest EUR 2.5 billion over the next nine years, as you said in your recent interview - which we will also submit in the Minutes - is there a corresponding contract? The second question is: What are the barren lines covered by the new PSO contract and under what conditions? Will it affect other routes? Thirdly, we would like to ask you whether you have presented the new PSO contract as well as the results of the current one we have asked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u13	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, I would like to thank you for your question and to inform you that we did not sign a contract on 29 November, but that we signed a memorandum of cooperation. The contract will be signed in March. Why do we call this signature an important government? As you rightly said - to make a very small historical regression - the previous government of SYRIZA had agreed with the 2015 Convention - amended in 2017 - to grant TRAINOSE the sum of EUR 50 million each year for the so-called public service obligation, i.e. the barren lines. In 2018, therefore, SYRIZA shall notify the European Union, in accordance with Regulation 1370, of giving the barren lines to ‘TRAINOSE’. You're telling me: 'Why TRAINOSE'? Is there any other passenger transport company in this country and we don't know about it? In 2018, when this happened, did another company, state, public, private, say, "we're here"? No, because, as you well know, there is a company that currently provides this service. And, as you quite rightly say, this is a private monopoly. What do we have to do? We have already voted for the fourth rail package, which is being released by rail in the process of passenger and cargo - in the cargo we have other companies doing this - so that we can bring other people and other companies to the game. So, in order to avoid inaccurateness, I will say: The previous government had promised and started the process of giving the barren lines to TRAINOSE without any consideration. What did we do in three months? With the back of the wall we sat with the Italians and negotiated - and there was no alternative, no more "TRAINOSE" to wait - to take investment of 2.2 to 2.5 billion over the next nine years. Not 15 years, 9:00. And the money we give will depend on whether the Italians and the TRAINOSE fulfil the terms of the agreement. This, I think, is very important because it shows that we are not coming here to say: 'Hello, take 750 million, thank you very much'. This shows that to take the money privately and a private company - because the private company is the 'TRAINOSE', although the 'TRENIALIA' belongs to a very large extent to the Italian State - they must take concrete action. I would also like to say that the procedure for aid to rail is European practice, separate from the arid lines in air transport or shipping. What we are doing has been done in other countries of the European Union. The aim and pursuit of a government and a party that wants to be called liberal is to be able to operate liberalism in favour of the many. And here I agree with you, that the objective - and here you will be able to criticise us at the end of our term of office - is to be able to attract other companies to come to the Greek railway so that the Greek railway can become truly competitive. Today, however, the choice was very specific, because while SYRIZA was against the sale of “TRAINOSE” and was talking about a sale, he eventually sold it against a lentil plate, when the previous governments and the Samara government were trying to sell this company with a higher profit for the Greek State. I do not like to hear - and I say this with all due respect to you, Mr Colleague - the term'storage'. I think we need to overcome these ideas. We have to understand that the private sector when it operates under the supervision of a serious state, then it works for the benefit of the many. When we have business socks and contractors, it's not working. But you cannot claim that TRENITALIA is not a serious company and that this agreement works against the public interest because the money they receive from the barren lines will be taken as long as they invest 2.5 billion. And in there, I haven't put any more indirect investments, if you like, that will come. It is also necessary for the Italians to renew the rolling stock, because - and I think you will all agree with us - the Greek railway and the rolling stock remind us of a third-world image. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Viliardos has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. At the moment you have replaced a Greek State monopoly company with an Italian State monopoly company. It's obviously not privatization. It's something completely different. It's state-of-the-art from another country. In the second party concerning the convention, which you referred to, the EUR 2.5 billion, the agreement you have with the Italians, we would like to know whether there will be a contract to testify that the Italians will, in fact, invest this particular amount. We never claimed that the Italian state-owned company is not healthy. We know she's healthy, we know she has profits, we know she's big and she's investing in other countries. Now, we do not know whether the new PSO includes improvement of lines, new lines or other regional lines. We'd like to ask. Also, the Athens-Patras-Pyrgos rail link has been interrupted since 2007 and possibly rebuilt during these fifteen years of HSY. What's gonna happen then? We ask the same question about the Crete railway line, where it is contemplating its new engraving or the Thessaloniki-Kavala-Alexandroupolis linking, perhaps with an upgrade for Bulgaria. It is now noted, for example, that the railway line from Kiato to Agios, Rododafni, has been completed. In fact, the former Minister, Mr Spirtzis, attended a test route in April 2019 - you know - announcing that a train will be launched from the end of August. Initially, a diesel-driven train would be launched, and when the electric drive was completed, it would be converted into an electric train. In our question from 5-9-2019, about trains on the ready line of Kiato-Rododafni, you replied that the line was in the test phase and that it would be launched at the request of TRAINOSE at the OSE. We don't know if he has any motive to do it, whether he does it, and under what operating parameters. In any case, it seems that an official state has lost its ability to pursue a policy in the sensitive transport sector, which is almost all part of it to foreign lenders, overseers and foreign state-owned and semi-government companies. Also, through the last draft law on the interoperability of railway services, which you brought to the vote last month, we are unclear about the transparency of the manager in the formation of charges, which we believe should be charged to large companies for the benefit of the social group. To close, we want to ask the following questions: First, how does the new PSO affect the services of TRAINOSE? Secondly, is there an interest or are you planning to take action to increase competition with other passenger transport companies? What can you do on this issue so that there is no monopoly on Italian trains? Thirdly, can there be a burden of competition through the PSO contract, but also the operation of the ETSC - 'TRAINOSE' as a common scheme? What kind of competition controls are there? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u17	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u18	Let me start by saying - because I am sure that you know them, but it is good to know and those who are watching us - what the situation today is in the legal framework that governs rail not only Greece, but also throughout Europe. Rail transport in Europe has been liberated for several years. What does the state do? The State is responsible for infrastructure control. Therefore, the infrastructure projects are not done by the service operator, they are not done by TRAINOSE. Let us make it clear that the infrastructure projects are made by the state through OSE and the subsidiary, "ERGOSE". Where are we today? Four and a half years has not been done, but no serious network maintenance has been done. And this is what those who travel and use the railroad find, because at certain points on the Athens - Thessaloniki route the train goes with ten kilometers and especially in several places in Platy. That means that for the last four and a half years the state had had to do it, it did not. That is to know what the real situation is. Now you ask me what lines will be included in the DPO regime. This, as you can see, is an ongoing negotiation with TRAINOSE and will be finalised with the signing of the contract. I will inform you and tell you what the obligations are - and I shall submit the relevant document in the Minutes - which the TRAINOSE should undertake. What is the benefit of the national economy for the period 2021-2036: The use of rail network and infrastructure will bring to the Greek State up to EUR 300 million, because the infrastructure operator actually pays for the use as is done throughout Europe. The rental of rolling stock will bring to the State up to 160 million. The maintenance of the technical material is estimated to be between 250 and 300 million. The new hybrid trains that will come to Greece in 2021 to 2022, which TRENITALIA will pay for, are costing up to EUR 500 million. Investments in new technologies will reach 150m euros. And there is a table with specific investments called 'TRENITIA'. Whether TRENITALIA is a state or a private company, that - you will allow me to say - is an issue that I do not think should be concerned with. What should concern us, my dear fellow Member, is that we have someone coming, a foreign investor and investing in the railroad. If Greece has forty, forty, fifty years, been unable to bring the Greek railway where it is in other countries of Europe, we cannot say that "TRENITALIA" has come to invest. I agree with you that here we are talking about a private monopoly, at this stage. We want to develop the Greek railway, we want and want other companies to come and provide services. But alternatives at this stage, to be absolutely honest, do not exist. In other words, if we did not give this money, and if we did not enter a negotiation with TRAINOSE, so that she too would return, if you wish, three times that subsidy in nine years, we would not have had a railroad. So, you know, because politics is the art of the practicable and not the ideal, we must, at one time - I think - realize what the reality is, see what the weaknesses are and try to find out other foreign investment in the country - the investment of COSCO has come, now the investment of TRENITALIA - to improve infrastructure and rail, because rail will also play a very important role in the next ten to fifteen years. These are the new infrastructure in which, in my view, our country must invest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u19	The second question will now be discussed under No 294/12-2019 in the second cycle of the Greek Parliamentary State, Mr. Vassiliourdou, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "An extension of the regime of winding-up of the Thessaloniki Urban Transport Agency with its amendment of 28-11-2019 to the Mediation Act". Mr. Villardo, you have two minutes to develop your timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. In my prototype I shall refer in summary to the period after 2017, while in my denology in the previous one, to have a more comprehensive information. In this regard, after 2017, the state-owned OSH is attempting to take over, in the sense that the administration is in fact now being undertaken by the State. A law is passed in 2017 and the Pappa administration assumes. The Act provides for the following: First, the establishment of the Thessaloniki Transport Project Agency, Anonymous Company, OSETH, with a public purpose supervised by the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport. It succeeds the Thessaloniki Urban Transport Council, SASTH, which is abolished. Secondly, the acquisition of the OSTH and a gradual transfer of their work to PSYTH. The OSTH is being wound up, running until the transition takes place. Thirdly, the recommendation of the PSSY - Thessaloniki Urban Transport, Anonymous Company - which also has a public purpose. Towards the execution of urban bus transport in the Region of Thessaloniki and the means of fixed track, I mean train and tram. It is supervised by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. It would be transferred to OSTH's fixed assets. Fourthly, the acquisition of the shares of the OSH shareholders on the basis of the undetermined value of OSH's movable and immovable property that contributes to the new company. In order to buy off the OSH and compensate the shareholders, we should assess the fixed assets by a special consultant. This process had not begun in May 2019, so Mr. Spirtzis said that he left it for the next government, for you. The amendment of 28 November 2019 extends the status of the existing operation of the OSH to public service, but without prejudice to the compensation of shareholders. It shall abolish the ICCAT and reduce the responsibilities of the ICCAT. This happened at the last moment before the deadline for transition to the new regime expired. The amendment also makes an attempt to improve the operation, since it allows for OSH's transport work to be entrusted to the CBEL and secondly, some financial support is provided to the OSH and staff to be provided. It remains unequivocal what will happen after the expiry of the three-year period, i.e. whether it will remain public. However, there seems to be no mismanagement by SYRIZA - we always want to be objective - but perhaps there was a mismanagement by the shareholders, which we would like you to clarify. It does not seem reasonable to move to a new regime with better government supervision. Our questions here are as follows: Firstly, what is the timetable for the completion of the liquidation and under which conditions or conditions? Secondly, why did you abolish S.H.I.E.L.D.? Will you dismiss the pre-existing design in terms of both PSY and PSY? Do you intend to privatise or grant PSATH to the supranational, such as the OSCE and the OSCE? Thirdly, what measures do you intend to take to improve services, to grant tickets and to improve the bus fleet? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u21	Minister, you have the floor for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Comrade, you quite rightly referred to it and said that in 2017 the SYRIZA government voted for Law 4482, with which it took over the organization. Indeed, this statement - you will allow me to say - is the first statement that has been made in the European Union over the last thirty years. And since then, as a New Democracy - I, as a relevant Member of the European Parliament, have judged this, and we have said that the problems that will arise in OSH since nationalisation will be much greater than what we imagine and from the problems that we had when OSH was private. Here I would like to say that the European Commission has a huge responsibility, which has actually given this green light. But we're here now. This law provided for a successor of the OSTH that would be the Urban Transportation of Thessaloniki, the so-called PSYTH. The PSYTH would take over Thessaloniki's transport project after the winding-up process of the OSTH. In fact, the law in Article 21 provided, that the law would be adopted and ratified and the statutes of PSY SA would be in operation until 30 June 2019. Since then, it should have been ready for this company to take over the transport project of Thessaloniki. We became the government on 7 July and should therefore have received the operation of the HR. I remind you what you said, too, that the previous Minister said that the elections would decide the future of the OSH. What we received is well-known: a dissolved transport. We are currently managing a crisis so that urban transport in Thessaloniki does not collapse. From EUR 50,000,000, Mr. Papapas left EUR 25,000. We want to hope that in the mid-term we will go to the next period up to EUR 30 000 000. Mr. Papas, Mr. Spirtzis, with the incredible idea of statism, while taking over five hundred buses from the private OSTH, we were handed over two hundred thirteen buses with an average of over fifteen years. There will be a departure due to twenty-three years until 2020. Therefore, ninety more buses will go off. Today, almost thirty buses are circulating in the city of Thessaloniki and we know that the situation is tragic. We do not, however, live in the age of cartoons. We cannot resurrect a company from scratch within a quarter, four months or five months. What we need to do and what we do: Firstly, with the amendment we have tabled, we are actually giving this company life because the liquidation is not complete. Secondly, we have signed - as you quite rightly said - the transfer of transport work to the CBELs, to a CBEL consortium. I am pleased to tell you that gradually, as of January, they will join the OSH fleet around the hundred and twenty buses, which will change the image of transportation in Thessaloniki. In addition, we have already voted for an amendment allowing the rental of vehicles so that more buses can enter the transport project immediately, and we proceed directly to the tender for the supply of new buses, a tender which - I remind you - became the last minute of the previous government, a real gonatogram, which we have not come to cancel, but the Independent Procurement Authority has come and canceled the tender. We two days ago tabled an amendment to make this ministry a competition, so that buses are public property, to ensure the public interest. That's for your question about the superstition. So that's what we did to be legal. And we have the confidence and will to complete this competition within the next four months, so that we have rolling stock for Athens and Thessaloniki very soon, because the situation in Athens is not much better. This is the picture right now in the public transport, in urban transport in Athens and Thessaloniki. There is an older fleet, which is not environmentally friendly, a fleet that cannot serve the passenger public and organisations that are being dismantled. I understand and understand the anger of the citizens and I see it and I feel it and I hear it. But we will need the timeframe I told you - January - February new buses of the Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kampa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kampa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kandahara Kandara Kandahara Kandara Kandara Kandara Kandara Kappa Kandahara Kandahara Kandahara Kandahara Kandalla Kandahara Kandahara Kandalla Kandalla Kandalla Kandarasa Kandalla Kandalia Kou is going to take to get the Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kandahara Kandahara Kandah Kandah Khara Khara Khara Khara Khara Khara Khara Khara Khara Khara Khara Khara Khara We're talking about a huge competition. We must be very careful how to use this money, which is also the money of the European Investment Bank, to change the image of urban transport in the two major cities of our country, but especially in Thessaloniki, where the situation, in fact, reminds of a third-world country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Villard, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we didn't say we were waiting for miracles. We didn't claim that. Just for a timeline, we asked and you answered what we wanted. In my dentext I will also refer to the period before 2017, so that there is a more comprehensive picture. However, we understand in general that the means of transport handled by the superstate - I wish the OSH would not be subject to this - so it is what makes decisions and reduces the costs of reducing their damage while you receive the political cost. We fully understand that, although in particular OSH - as we have said - does not yet belong to the lenders' fund. We hope that it will remain outside the lenders' fund. In summary, I will now say the following about the time before 2017: First, OSTH had a specific operational status historically. He was a Legal Person of Private Law with private shareholders, but was acting on concessions with the State, signed at various intervals, in 1957, 1979, 2001 and 2008. They include the number of buses, routes, ticket prices, grants and other operating details. Secondly, the business risk, but also the form of policy, has the state, and the benefit of private individuals - which has given us a special impression - is without direct control, since it was governed by an eleven-member board of directors, whose seven members were elected by the shareholders, one by the public, one by the employees, one by the Region of Central Macedonia and one by the Municipality of Thessaloniki, if we are not mistaken. Thirdly, OSH shareholders were their motorists and descendants, who contributed capital or even buses when they were founded in 1957, when capital increases were made. Part of the shareholders are legal persons such as the Thessaloniki CBEL, the Workers' Cooperative, etc., as well as individuals. Fourth, fundamental and controversial part of the agreement with the State is that the state meets the operational needs of the OSH and a business profit, which is reduced over the years from 20% in 1957, to 15% in 2000 and is calculated on the value of the buses as new and from the value of the installations. Strange things. Fifthly, at the same time, OSH employs enough staff - as far as we know two thousand and thirty-three people around 2016 - so it is important for Thessaloniki and has scope for dealing with civilian staff. Six, there have been constant reports of deficiencies and delays in OSH, as you have said. In recent years, staff have declined at the expense of drivers, while administrative staff have increased. Seventh, OSTH serves routes to Thessaloniki, as well as to regional municipalities. The buses have been gradually reduced in recent years - as you have said - logically because of the past, and today it is said that some 200 are available. The latest OSTH - public contract, together with the supplement, defined its duration for up to two years after the metro starts operation. The subway is, of course, late if it ever works. But there is another interpretation of the Legislative Council of State, which expires on 3-12-2019, two years after the end of the European directive, i.e. just before your own amendment has been introduced. In this regard, we wonder why he has been so late and we are waiting for an explanation from you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u25	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u26	First of all, if you will allow me, Mr Colleague, to correct you. When we took over, the buses on the streets of Thessaloniki were two hundred thirteen. We're up to three hundred and fifty. Unfortunately, to be perfectly honest, three hundred and fifty buses may come out in the morning, but with the problems in buses, many times there are damage and several of them return back. So, because I don't want to say things that don't really respond, as the previous ones did, I'm going to tell you that today there are not more than three hundred buses in Thessaloniki and that with the rolling stock that OSH currently has, it's impossible for them to release more. That is why we are transporting transport work to the CBELs. You referred to the past. You are right that this was a special regime. It was the Royal Decree of 1957, which gave urban transport to individuals. What have we done as a state for all these years? And if you want, that's also a self-critic in the entire political system that exercised power and command. What did we actually do? We were over-supporting urban transport over the European average, and the taxpayer actually paid for it. For while the European average to subdue some routes to urban transport is 40% to 50% of the ticket price, we in the case of the OSCE and OSH were over 100%, because there was a transaction between political staff and social groups. Everyone free, students don't pay. They don't pay, but someone has to pay for it, don't they? Not to pay the Security Body, not to pay certain social groups. They do very well and they don't pay. However, if the state wants to make social policy - and I am in favour of doing social policy - these ministries must come and give the funds to the agencies so that they do not collapse. I think everyone will agree with that, because that is the logic. What's happened all these years and that's changed this year? They came later, at the end of the year, and there was a Bras de fer between ministries and agencies and never gave the money to the social policy agencies. So, at the moment with the Minister responsible, Mr. Pylakakis, we are pleased to tell you that this has been happening since the beginning of the year. The General Accounting Office of the State will be what will be responsible for taking the money and delivering it to the institutions, because as you understand the Ministries will think twice - the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Labour - whether they pay the OSTH or not they will be consistent with their obligations towards the General Accounting Office of the State. This is therefore a first streamlining of economics. Two. And I shall end with that, Mr President. I was quite clear, I think, about the game the previous government played. We have brought the amendment that we have brought in by trying to find another solution until the last minute. But unfortunately the formalism that exists in the Greek public sector forced us to bring the amendment in because we could not do anything else. We had no choice because we were just waiting to see how the liquidation was going. The liquidation at the moment is not complete. As you quite rightly know, there is a very great and intense reaction from the OSH shareholders who currently consider - and to some extent someone can say that they have a right - that they were deceived by the SYRIZA government. Why am I saying that? Because, my dear colleague, SYRIZA, if he waited until 2019, then by Regulation 1370, he could carry out another competitive procedure and call on other providers or even say "I then state OSH". But it did it in 2017, while two more years of OSH would have to provide the transport project itself. This, in the opinion of law-approved, leaves the door open for shareholders to claim more money from the Greek taxpayers, from the Greek State, which will make the account of Mr. Spiritzis and Mr. Pappas even more on the basis of the incredible process of stateisation. We live at a time when state transport is there. But beware: in Europe they are popular. You have the consortium of individuals and the municipalities where this percentage is provided. The state is coming and subsidises them where they should. We are not here, however, on this point. Here we have a regime which is peculiar. Here, in fact, we are transporting transport work to individuals, to the CCEEs. The goal is for OSTH to do what it needs to do, serve the metropolitan zone of Thessaloniki, not go outside the border of Thessaloniki, and other transport operators from now on serve the passenger audience. We have suspended for three years the creation of the IAS, so that we have a plan and see how we can have a system as it exists in Europe where individuals and the state are involved in the transport of a city. You know, we don't need to discover the wheel, we don't need to discover the powder. We must take good practice abroad, we must imitate what is happening in other countries such as Greece, what is happening in Italy, what is happening in Spain, what is happening in Portugal. I will not compare us with Denmark or Stockholm, where 80% of the buses are electric. But we have to go to a process which, slowly, our country will have urban transport which will be similar to European standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u27	The following three questions will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Dimitrios Economou. Series is the third with number 309-10/12/2019, a topical question by MP B2 West Athens area of the day25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Measures to deal with pollution of Volos from the incineration of waste by the cement industry "AGET-LAFARGE". I would like to remind you again that four questions should have been debated so far and three have been discussed. The reason is that both the Minister and the honourable Members have exceeded time. Hot request to remain in time. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. And as I will always do everything possible to fully respect the time. Mr. Undersecretary, the problem is well known. The burning of garbage at the moment in Volos has upset the local society. It also upsets the society of all of Greece as it seems that the government is open to expanding this measure elsewhere. You know Volos very well. At the moment, with permission from the SYRIZA Government, the industry "AGET-LAFARGE" in Volos almost within the urban fabric - separates them from a small hill - burns MDF particle boards, decontamination sludges, sludges of urban centres and industrial units, plastic and many other materials. The Greek studies and the study by Mr Christolis in 2010 showed that Greek cement industries cannot use waste fuel harmlessly, while international studies have shown that there is a release of carcinogenic dioxins and furans and an increase in carcinogen cases in areas around waste incineration plants. I have referred to the question of both studies. The plant's measurements marginalise the indicators 'to red' - exactly the limit is moving too specific indicators, in particular the indicators of nitrogen dioxide - while at times where zero measurements are made it is obvious that combustion is again taking place. So, at first, something has to be done with the measurements. Citizens have also asked the region for a study to see the origins of the misery that floods even during summer months the city of Volos. The region has entrusted Aristotle University with this study. The question is clear: will you suspend the authorisation and the operation of combustion there until at least the evidence comes out of the study? What will you do if this study shows that maliciousness and consequences come from the FMD?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr Arsenis. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. I know it myself. There are some periods of dysosmia. Safeguarding air quality is a key priority of the Ministry of the Environment, obviously, by its nature. This matter in Volos is well known. It's going through times. I remember three years ago, in another capacity, had taken part in a meeting at the Ministry of the Environment chaired by Mr Famelos. Since then, many things have not been done, it's true. The question raises different issues. One issue is the incineration of waste in general. What's going on here? In accordance with European Directive 98/2008, which has been incorporated into Greek legislation, waste measures should be adopted, including recycling. Recycling is a key element of modern waste policy. Recycling produces residues, so-called secondary fuels, which before being burialised to the CYPTOs must pass through a pre-treatment to obtain energy and some other materials that are present in this waste. Based on the annex to the Act you mentioned, the co-incineration of waste in the cement industry is a practice of recovering energy and minerals. Using these secondary fuels then reduce carbon dioxide emissions, reduce energy costs, reduce waste management costs, and economic and environmental costs. When burning these secondary fuels in rotary furnaces, such as ‘GATT’, there is a potential technique for the complete destruction of organic constituents. Therefore rotary furnaces are much safer than simple incinerators. It is not always the same as the general burning of waste as you mentioned. In any case, this practice is best practice at pan-European level and is generally used by the cement industries in Europe. For the installation in Volos, environmental conditions are provided for when secondary fuels are received. Moreover, these checks concern the non-exceeding of limits on chlorine and mercury. With GDP, the controlled biomass combustion in “AGET” has been approved and in this environmental study an assessment of the characteristics and installation of combustion has been carried out, including the amount of chimney, but also the climatic and geographical conditions of the area. The legislative procedure followed, the consultation took place and the approval was then signed. That's all about protology. I'll finish in dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u31	Here you go, Mr Arseni. You have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you have already referred to chimney. In breach of the European directive, an entire paragraph of the European directive has not been incorporated. The 2013 incorporation did not transfer Article 46(1) which clearly stipulates that cement production industries should calculate the level of smoker so that the exhaust gases produced are safely kidnapped in order to protect people and the environment. That doesn't exist in integration. It is a matter for Greece to be condemned and of course it will not pay these fines to a private company that will burn this garbage, but again the Greek taxpayer. In 2017's GDP, we see that the ‘GATT’ received a derogation for total organic carbon, claiming that it does not come from the incineration of garbage, but that the material it uses, in essence, of the newest layers of clay it extracts has more total carbon. This is the same excuse that all the cement manufacturers in Greece are using that term to change. We're talking about quadrupling the limits. The Scientific Group of the Committee on Citizens' Fighting of Volos went and saw the mines of "GET", did control and sent the results to the region showing that this claim of "GET" does not apply. Of course, the region never answered. The scientific committee itself has shown exactly how it violates both the discharged pollutants provided for by the 'GATT'. The region never responded again. The situation is very difficult. As you know, both young people and schools and citizens are constantly on the streets, very simply not for some ideoscopy, but because there is an intensely burnt plastic evil. And just because experience of burning Volos is not good, I think that the immediate priority is that combustion should not go any further in Greece and stop at Volos until at least the specific results of the study of the Aristotle University, which, after the pressure of the inhabitants, has been demanded by the region, but also that there should be more thorough checks on the quality of the company's emissions measurements, because it is strange at times where tobacco is present, as well as the studies of the material that is entering and burning there. Because there are complaints that this is completely out of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr Arsenis, and respect for the time. Minister, you have the floor for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to reiterate, in general terms, on the issue of incineration that the incineration of waste is a well-established and best European practice and has not generally been proved to cause problems in itself, in any case. So there is no question of rejecting it as a general method. But let us go in the case of the 'GATT'. There's been a lot of checks. In 2018, an autopsy was carried out at the premises of “AGET” by environmental inspectors and by the Region’s Environmental Quality Control Scale. Sampling was carried out during this autopsy. The sample was checked by ‘Democritus’. The audit report was made public in November 2018 and it appears that the company and the establishment concerned fulfil all the conditions of GDP. Checks are also carried out within the national environmental inspection plan and will now be made self-conscious by the Region Control Scale, in cooperation with the College of Inspectors. The results of these new know-how and any other material will be exploited - you have mentioned some specific things - and we will see what we will then do on the basis of these new elements that will be assessed as a whole. I would also like to mention that the responsibility for monitoring air quality lies with the regions, in this case in the region of Thessaly. The Ministry of the Environment and previously has financed regional measurement stations and has recently anticipated new funding in July 2019 for the modernisation of the plant and the addition of the possibility of a pollutant gas analyser allowing to be assessed and pollutants or nuisances that are not currently evaluated. I fully understand the concern and concerns of the people in Volos. Tomorrow I'll be at Volos, and I'll have a personal picture of the subject and how it's evolving. Current data do not lead to an obligation or need to lift the environmental impact study. At the moment there is no such evidence, but the issue is being considered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u35	We continue with our first question with the number 1674/4-11-2019 question of Parliament's cycle of references - questions B2 West Athens, the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Charulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Atmosphere pollution and its consequences - upgraded levels of quality of life". Mrs Kafantaris, you have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to address the Minister and say that a number of questions are tabled, such as this simple question, by over thirty SYRIZA Members for its air pollution and its consequences, are not answered, so they are necessarily made timely and the relevant Minister comes in - I do not know if you have that responsibility - to answer these issues to a timely question. We also want to help with the responses of the Ministry to create such an environmental policy that is to the benefit of the quality of life of the world. I now come to this particular issue which is a continuation of the previous one and concerns air pollution. It is true that atmospheric pollution is a major problem for large cities at pan-European and global level, perhaps. In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, however, the report titled “An overview of the implementation of the European Union’s environmental policy 2019. Exposure to Greece’. This report on the situation of Greece for 2018 and issued 31-7-2019 states: ‘The European Union has developed an integrated package of legislation on air quality, which establishes standards and health-oriented targets for a number of pollutants’. The World Health Organisation - as we understand and think we all agree - states in its reports the great, serious issue of impact on public health from air pollution. Worldwide 3.7 million deaths are attributed to air pollution. The European Environment Agency says that there are four hundred and twenty-two thousand early deaths due to atmospheric pollution, of which three hundred ninety-one thousand are in Europe-28. It has a serious impact on public health - we all agree - but also on the economy, because the economy is actually being burdened with losses of workers. In 2005 the OECD estimated that in 2060 costs would increase to around 2% of European GDP, which is about the consequences of air pollution. I will say, for example, that air pollution is essentially linked to climate change. At the moment there is a conference in Madrid, which we held until yesterday, from the Greek Parliament. Air pollution issues have had an important place, because they also affect the phenomenon of climate change. The ozone and soots contribute to climate change by strengthening overheating. Climatic and meteorological factors also interact in an interconnected way by causing changes in phenomena and magnifying the negative effects of pollutants, metals, etc. Gas pollutants are burdening air pollution and we need to deal with it. The areas responsible are transport - land, sea, air - energy production, industrial activities, consumption of energy resources, agricultural activities and practices in waste management, etc. Because I have heard you before, Minister, burning is not the best practice at pan-European level. This is a big issue. Some other time we may be talking about it more specifically. I will now say that despite the measures taken at times, as shown by the 2018 Environmental Report by the National Environment and Sustainable Development Centre with a base year in 2016, and the annual data published by the Ministry of the Environment, there are pollutants for which there are still excesses of the limits set by European and national legislation, especially in relation to nitrogen dioxide and ozone in Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u37	End up in the questions. You're far beyond time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u38	I'm done. In addition, and in relation to fine suspended particles, PM2,5, although no annual limit has been recorded since 2010, all recorded annual values exceed 10 micrograms per cubic metre, corresponding to the relatively stricter price of the World Health Organisation for the Protection of Public Health. As we understand it, there are solutions, I'll tell my dentistry. We are simply concerned here about the effects of air pollution on public health, and of course we are asking when a short- and long-term plan is to be drawn up to deal with problems and to protect air quality. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-seven students and students and three educational attendances from the 5th Grade of Painters. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Today, parliamentary scrutiny is being carried out. Other days, legislative work is done and laws are passed. That is to say, the Member is asking and the Minister is answering. Minister, you have the floor to answer for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank Mrs Kafantaris and other Members for the question. Mrs Kafantaris' interest in these matters is something that I personally know from another capacity in the previous House when she was chairman of the Committee on the Environment and other Members of Parliament, of course. Indeed, the fact that it comes so quickly after the recent elections - obviously air pollution has not been created in the past five months - shows that it is a matter of intergroup interest, recognition of de facto responsibilities, which are time-consuming, and the importance of the problem and the need to have solutions. Obviously the issue, as I mentioned in the previous answer, is the first priority of the Ministry of the Environment. The Ministry of the Environment has also recently taken a number of measures to deal with air pollution. Earlier included the application of best technologies to industry, the operation of the Environment Inspectors and others. In the last five months, however, concrete measures have been taken, I would say a lot for the time being. The first is to promote the liberalisation of the gas market, which will lead to much greater penetration of natural gas into the energy mix. He's in the process right now. The second is the promotion of the electromobility and use of new technologies vehicles for both private cars and public transport. I would remind you that the competent Interministerial Committee is already drawing up a national plan for electricity, which we believe will be completed in June 2020. The withdrawal of old-tech and polluting vehicles and the provision of appropriate incentives is also considered and I would remind you that the relevant arrangements were incorporated into the bill of the Ministry of Finance which was recently passed in the House. Measures to reduce the use of IX and shift to mass transport, but also to soft means such as bicycles, are promoted by the Ministry of the Environment in recent years and today. I am referring also to the creation of new bicycle roads, to supporting the development of Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans that are continuing. Recently, the Ministry of Infrastructure took an initiative in this direction. Finally, in the same direction, reducing emissions contribute to measures to improve the energy efficiency of buildings. There are special programmes, such as "I save at home", before and after the election, and now there has been a new one, but the "I save at home" will continue in the next phase as well as the "ELECTRA" programme, which concerns public buildings. I shall mention a few other issues in the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u41	Mrs Kafantaris, you have the floor for three minutes for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u42	Clearly, Minister, in the new ESRB which is currently being discussed in the Committee on Production, Trade and the Environment, some measures are being presented that Greece intends to implement. They are incorporated into this national plan, as you said, electricity, sustainable urban mobility plans, heat pumps, gas promotion for heating. However, I would like to make a comment here. When we talk about 2050 for a climate neutral Europe or for the coaling of the economy and Greece, gas is not painless. Natural gas may be a transitional fuel, but at a certain rate, because natural gas also has a negative environmental footprint, especially with the release of methane. Let us not forget that. We will of course see you in the consultation on the new ESRB. However, I will say here that the measures which concern air pollution and its treatment are many. I will also mention the revision of the green ring regime and the ban on the free movement of oil in large urban areas, the uncontrolled use of biomass as a domestic fuel - I put a question mark in order not to find ourselves in conditions 2012-2015 that households with excessively increased electricity prices were forced to burn what they wanted and I fear that the price increase in PPC and electricity will have in energy poverty - and the development of networks for the means of transport, especially fixed track, development, protection of terrestrial salts, greenery, prevention of smuggling and, of course, the even greater development of the air pollution control network. Indeed, air pollution has not occurred in the last four, five months. Clearly no one can say that. However, Directive 50 of 2008 provides for the establishment of an operational plan. In July 2019, the respective project for Thessaloniki - prepared by the Region of Central Macedonia - was in a phase of integration, and the competition for the respective plan for Athens was opened with funding from the Greek Ministry of Finance. What stage of implementation are these? How are their results to be integrated into the Ministry's policy? How are all stakeholders to be consulted and the public as measures which will have a direct impact on the daily lives of the citizen may be required? That is what I wanted to ask you, Minister, and to say that the network of air pollution measurement stations has twenty points of responsibility of the Ministry and nine other nineteen in different regions of the country, which the respective regions have responsibility for. Very recently, there have been or is going to be the installation of stations to measure difficult pollutants, but the network density that has to be increased even more, eleven to twelve cities in Greece are covered by only one station, thus being point-by-point readings. There are also new activities, Mr Minister, for example, the cruise which is a heavy burden on air pollution. So should there also be a number of cruise ports to monitor this pollution? This is a subject that has been raised recently and is not only in Greece. I say, however, that we see measuring stations in both Greece and such points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u43	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would once again thank Mrs Kafantaris for moving along a wave of logic and understanding on a serious subject which we do indeed care about. He also made specific proposals, which we will really see. They look reasonable to me. I'm committed to appraising them at the Ministry. Mrs Kafantaris was mentioned on the National Air Pollution Monitoring Network. There's been a long time already. I would add that it works at the Ministry of the Environment and the National Reference Laboratory for the Quality of Atmosphere, which also has an important role to play in dealing with pollution. It is known that the Ministry of Environment and Energy is monitoring pollutants on a 24-hour basis and issuing relevant communications when there is a problem of overrun. Fortunately, it is not as common as the phenomenon is, but such things happen and may happen in the future. Regarding what Mrs Kafantaris said, the air quality plan in the wider area of Athens, I would like to say that she is currently in the open competition phase. The purpose of this contract is to draw up an action plan to combat pollution in Athens. The plan concerns atmospheric pollutants for which over-periods have been recorded over the last three years and also pollutants for which over-exceedings have not been recorded over the last three years in order to maintain the acceptable level of the situation today. As I said, these are only some of the elements of the policy of the Ministry of Environment and Energy. Let me refer to the National Energy and Climate Plan recently presented. This is of course about global pollution, but global pollution also comes from gases which contribute to local pollution, and so there is interaction. The consultation process is under way and we will certainly discuss all these issues in the consultation of the ESRB. Only two points I would like to say in addition. One is that natural gas is indeed transitional. It's not the best fuel possible. It's much better than today's. The Government has already announced full degreeisation in 2018. This is an internationally very high objective and it shows that we really mean that we want to reduce pollutants both locally and globally. Transitional measures such as gas are necessary. I think we all agree, especially for a country like Greece, but also elsewhere, because it is also being used elsewhere. Thus, with this logic, natural gas is promoted. Secondly, with regard to the increase in PPC's price, I would like to say that it can indeed have a negative effect, but, as the Minister, Mr Hatzidakis, has already explained, it is due to the situation that the current government has received from PPC on the brink of bankruptcy. Some measures were necessary, and unpleasant in some cases, including a small increase in prices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u45	Thank you. We continue with our second question with number 1530/25-10-2019 question of the circle of petitions - questions by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Haris Mamoulakis to the Minister of Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Compensatory benefits for the Municipality of Maleviziou with the reduction of energy facilities in the Linopera AIA". Mr. Mamulaki, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you are aware of this from both the spatial and the energy perspective. The region of Gaziou, i.e. the well-known Linoperamas in Crete, which has been a very well-prepared area for half a century, has - I would say - the most outdated technical facilities in Crete and the oldest and most outdated in the country. It's a heavy impact on the environment. There are measurements from the University of Crete, from the Mediterranean University of Crete, as well as from the Institute of Technology and Research. Unfortunately, there has been a reasonable improvement in moving these mooring infrastructures from the region, given the lack of the island to date for proper supply. Nevertheless, in recent years, I think that things have gone ahead, the energy supply of Crete is guaranteed, as far as we know, by the two ongoing interconnecting projects of the island with the mainland. On the one hand, the so-called'small cable' is already in a phase of construction between the Peloponnese and Crete, 2 out of 140 MW in total. In the first half of 2020, we are expected to have, as a matter of fact, the first important completion of the link. There is also the ongoing work of the great interconnection of the island, the so-called 'large cable'. We see that now it does not enter the PSI, Project Common Interest, but goes as a national project. We welcome this effort, because I think it is speeding up the procedures for correct and rapid connection, which is now a really urgent need. However, what we have to do is predict both spatially and rhetorically the next day in a large area, which has really suffered pandemics. Regarding the measurements - and I do not want to jeopardize the data in the wider area - to say that it is very close to the city of Heraklion, the fourth largest city in the country, with what this entails. In any case, it is a time-consuming request from the local population and recently accepted by Mr Hatzidakis at a meeting on 22 October, just a month and a half ago, the mayor of the region, the Municipality of Malevizio. As the former self-government happens to know the region well, and as an engineer I can also understand the consequences, I ask the following question: First, since there is a political commitment, what is the realistic timetable, what is the roadmap of actions so that what is going on? Given the assurance and completion of the projects that we can take care of this respectable surface - Mr President, I should like to point out that it is a hundred acres of eighty acres of land of excellent relief and in a region which has enormous development potential in recent years - what is envisaged on behalf of the Ministry, so that we do not live a corresponding 'Greek Crete', which we are saying below? That is to say, we have to predict from now, in the field of land-use planning, a master plan, perhaps, the specific process. That is the major question. And, of course, there is also the political and economic part - technical, because there is also a political commitment over time by the previous government, but also by the present, to the compensatory benefit of a region which has suffered, as I have said before, a great deal of social and economic impact, and no doubt for the people who live there and in practical and medical matters. That is all, Mr President, and Minister. I'm waiting for the answer, and I'm going to go for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u47	Minister, you have the floor for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the question that is really constructive. Indeed, this is a well-known matter. There is no doubt about his seriousness. And the Prime Minister has also spoken with Mr Hatzidakis and the Deputy Minister of Energy, Thomas, recently. As far as electricity interconnection is concerned, a method was indeed chosen, despite the known reactions and objections, which might have had some logic, but we chose it because it was the fastest. And it is good that there is a more general consensus on this method for the implementation of the interconnection project. Now, in the case of the Linoperama factory, as you mentioned, in October, the Minister met the Mayor of Malevizio. At this meeting it was agreed that the unit should be closed, it is indeed old, polluting and ineffective. That was also a product of this meeting, but anyway it was a little too certain that things would go that way. The decision taken was to replace this unit in the Linoperms immediately - as direct as possible - by linking it to an underground cable in this region, which will lead to a conversion station outside Damasta. There is a commitment that the installation in Damasa will not be visible from any point of the settlement, it will not appear. The location was selected after a study. Six alternative posts were selected. Their evaluation was carried out on specific criteria: impacts on the environment, anthropogenic effects, effects on archaeological sites, land uses and technical criteria. A specific position has been chosen, not arbitrarily, through this process and the licensing process is now under way. Now how does the Linopera station get along? We are currently at the stage of environmental licensing of the project and its evaluation. The process after the conclusion of the consultation - I think that the consultation has not yet been completed, I am not sure - will be completed with the approval of the environmental conditions, which will also constitute the safeguards for the environment and the Damasta area for as long as this unit still needs to function. On the IPTO side, specific interventions are planned for the area currently operating. I'm going to the lynopera now, but maybe I'll answer for the lynopera next so I won't spend any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u49	That's the big one, the Linopers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u50	The lynopers are yes, but I don't know what you're going to say next to answer that. Okay, well, Already, rehabilitation projects are being planned. These include earthworks for the time being, because there is to be reafforestations and maintenance for at least five years of irrigation, etc. The environmental impact study and the technical specifications of the project are detailed references to the actions taken in this direction and are available. In order to restore the location beyond these actions, which I have already mentioned, topics such as those mentioned are indeed existing, namely the need for compensatory and support measures. Of course, the region has been heavily penalised, there is no doubt about it, which is why people are entitled, even though they are late, even afterward, even for the next generations, to have some compensation. The investigation of the countervailing measures is progressing. Inside it may be a master plan, as you say, we are talking about it right now. I am sure there will be help from all the local players, it is not a party or a political one. So in the next period, we will have new in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u51	Here, Mr Mamulakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u52	I can say that I have covered half of the first part of the question, since I am pleased to hear that there is a first approach to the question of post-training, in fact, a very burdensome area, as I have told you by a hundred eighty acres. It is therefore important, in the first phase, to plan, study and approach what will happen after the move, release of these mobular infrastructures from the region. We know that the cold reserve will, of course, remain, as well as an electro-productive pair, which we learn from what we are learning - and I hope it will have a certain time to stay there and not be there - is a part of the energy bill, which we voted on ten days ago, and which presupposes the existence of this electro-productive pair - for what reason - because when the landing is completed and the connection is completed there must be a velvety transitional period to ensure the current situation. Now, however, I would like something more important, Minister, and mercy on your scientific subject. It is a good thing that we have a retraining service, that we should take care, that we have a right and a right and a technical and environmental release in the region, but what is most important in our view is what? It is to provide with a serious spatial approach to what is going to happen, because, as I have said to you, the area is of great surface and must be in line with the existing structures surrounding this area and the developmental nature, which, as I said, is particularly strong and emerging in the wider area. And that is what I would really like you to say in response to what the timetable is at the level of a serious study, because we want to avoid phenomena, such as the Heraklion region, you already know in the supranational area of the Guernese, which is to be built on the former American base. Thirty years now there is there and there is a place - let me the term - skull place. So we need to take proper care from now on and given the circumstances and circumstances if you want to do something right for the region, but this will also be surrounded by a scientific approach that is appropriate to the area, and I think it is also the nature of the investment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u53	Here, Minister, you have the floor to answer the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Look, as far as the future is concerned, you are absolutely right, we have to predict. The environmental licensing study of the project has already, at least as far as the environmental dimension is concerned, made predictions for the future, of course, of how things will evolve from an environmental point of view, but it is not just the environmental one there. That's right. There are other dimensions and development and services in the local area, compensatory. I cannot give you a specific timetable at the moment. But they are being examined, we are already in the process of examination. The idea for the master plan is positive. We are also moving in this direction. I hope that soon I will have something more specific to say. We won't be long, though. And I am sure that with the help of both local society and parliamentarians and all interested parties, we will be able to compensate for what the people have suffered for decades. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-two students and students and four educational attendants from the 1st Gymnasium of Galatium. I also have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the Parliament, after having previously participated in the educational programme "Work Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, seventeen students and apprentices and two educational escorts from the Elementary School of Lamou. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I inform you that at the moment there is no legislative work in the Chamber, but there is so-called parliamentary control. The Member is asking and the Minister is answering. We will now continue with the first with number 299/9-12-2019 current question of the first cycle of MP Chania of the New Democracy, Manousou Voloudakis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Evaluation of SMPs and ANFAs for financing public investment". Mr. Voloudakis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as is known from 2012 until the end of 2014, our homeland regularly received the money from the profits recorded by the European Central Bank and other central banks of the countries - members of the euro area, which they had recorded from the markets in Greek bonds. This stopped in 2015, after the "proud" negotiation, the flows were stopped and when they started again, the money came with a commitment that they would only be used to repay the debt or guarantee it. With your taking up your duties, you raised the question of the repayment of this money without any commitments, and you achieved in the last Eurogroup a clear statement that this money can be used for public investment, by means of a procedure which, of course, needs to be further agreed with the partners. The total amount of funds to be paid to our country by 2023, including the instalment discussed in the last Eurogroup, is 4,8 billion. This is, obviously, a sum that, if used for public investment, changes the investment landscape in the country, changes the image of infrastructure in the country, changes the development prospects in the country. And it is, of course, a new pool of money that has not yet been distributed. According to the report that has covered all this discussion, the partners are asked to present them with mature investment projects for infrastructure development which could absorb such funds. Since that is the case, I believe, Minister, that the first priority among these projects should be the BOAK, the northern axis of Crete, the road axis of the last region in the country without a motorway. I will say more in my denture, but I would like you to reply, Minister: is this really the case with your discussion with the partners? Is there a procedure for drawing up a list of projects to be financed from this money? For the rest, I'm going to continue in my dentistry. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, too. I now give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Mr Staikoura, to answer the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u58	Mr Colleague, your question is correct, important and timely. It highlights an important issue for strengthening the country's investment and development potential and prospects, the one that comes from exploiting the profits of the European central banks, the retention of Greek bonds, the well-known ANFAs and SMPs. It is an issue that, as you quite rightly pointed out, for the first time was raised by the Greek Government and decided at the Eurogroup last week. In particular, the last Eurogroup was recognised and a good course of the Greek economy confirmed the progress made and decided to disburse the second package of measures to alleviate Greek debt, totalling EUR 767 million. These measures include the release of the second dose from the profits of ANFAs and SMPs, which you also rightly pointed out are without conditions, without prerequisites, as set out in the previous government. It should be noted that the total of these profits amounts to about, a little more than you said, at EUR 5.1 billion. It should be recalled that this amount has been initially agreed to be given, under conditions, in equal instalments, every six months, from December 2018 and until the end of the enhanced surveillance period of the country, i.e. in May 2022, in eight instalments. Therefore, each disbursement is expected to be around EUR 640 million. It has only been done to date, in 2019, in the government of SYRIZA, which went directly for the repayment of the debt. It was not decided to disburse the second dose. However, as you quite rightly pointed out, for the first time and recorded in the Eurogroup communication, it was decided to assess the possibility of making use of these profits by ANFAs and SMPs for investment purposes in order to strengthen the Greek economy's development prospects. To achieve this, it has been decided to initiate the relevant technical treatment, in cooperation with the institutions, in the following period. The Greek Government is already working in this direction, since we ourselves have demanded and achieved the incorporation of the relevant provision in the decision. We are planning, methodologically and responsibly, political priorities, development guidelines, mature infrastructure projects. Such a project, under assessment, is also BOAK's.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Voloudakis has the floor for three minutes for his denology. Here you go, Mr. Voloudakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for confirming the substance of what was said in my question. I would like to add a few words to the public debate, which I think is now basically starting, on what these investments will be. It is clear that since these must be in the context of the agreed discussion with partners, they must relate to projects with a large development footprint and projects which will be easy to show. A large single project such as BOAK is, I believe, the most appropriate case that could be included in this debate. BOAK is a project costing the Agency for the Development of Crete to about 2.5 billion, with a more extensive account of what needs to be done there, including expropriations, VAT etc. It is half the money that will be available by 2023, in general. Minister, although this is obviously not your issue, the Ministry of Infrastructure is also involved, but I believe that here there is a very great need for Crete, which is really a national need. This is why the work of the BOAK has been integrated into the election programme of the party that today governs as a 'national infrastructure project'. So we have this data. We have the tragic delay in the implementation of the NAFO to date because, in fact, there was no guaranteed funding. Here, then, we have a source that can cover most of the part or why not all the costs of the project. There is, of course, an ongoing process and work in the Ministry of Infrastructure, and we expect the appropriate Minister's announcements to be forthcoming in the near future. However, as part of the work done by the Ministry of Infrastructure is also to find ways of financing the project, I believe it is absolutely necessary to see that there is a new source of funding here, a source of funding that has not been discussed either for the BOK or for other public investment. It's completely changing the scene of public investment. So far the national part of the Public Investment Programme actually does not exceed 1 billion. So when we have so much money it is like we have the possibility of making twice as much investment every year from national funds. So I think, Minister, although this is certainly a broader government issue, what you have told us today is very important, so that this dialogue, which, of course, must also be public on how this money will be used at last, can finally begin. The opportunity is here, the opportunity will never again be presented and Crete cannot wait. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u61	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u62	My dear colleague, both from your protology and from your denology, and from the question, I understand, I recognize and share your real and essential interest in this project. I am pleased that today the parliamentary control process, with regard to the Ministry of Finance, on the occasion of your question, which is the first to be done on this issue, because of the recent governmental success in the last Eurogroup, is focused on investment initiatives, with a strong positive development sign, as you have said, such as the BOAK, which so much need to fill the huge investment gap that exists. Indeed, the dialogue begins and begins with the government's choice and initiative. BOAK is indeed a major project of infrastructure, road corridors in the country, it is a project of life and breath for Crete. As you said, it is a national infrastructure project. The Government of New Democracy assesses all options. The previous government of SYRIZA had drawn up a so-called ‘project’, which was both incomplete and incomplete, an essentially tender for an expression of interest, without any study maturity, without any guaranteed funding, with additional difficulties for its tender as a single one. We will study the possibilities of financing this motorway, a project which, of course, is not done at one time, but which must be done, and as a government, we are approaching this project with methodicity and realism. Specific initiatives will soon be taken and, together with the Ministry of Infrastructure, the financial possibilities, which are now being opened up and the financial instruments available, will be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Minister. We are now moving on to the third with number 295/9-12-2019 in the first time question from the Member of the State of Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kaminas to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: 'Recent complaints of unjustified violence by police'. The State Secretary for Citizen Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou, will answer. Here, Mr. Kamine, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. We read in the newspapers, Mr President, that Mr Chrysochidis has been the most popular minister in the last few months. I don't mind that. There has been such a security gap for years, so that there is no need for a Citizen’s Minister to do many things to show his work. As mayor of Athens I had repeatedly stressed, both within the municipal council and outside, that the lawlessness that existed from time to time in the center of Athens would at some point bring the repression. Why? Because a large part of the population would be looking precisely for this solution. Days ago, then, on the anniversary of the Gregopoulou murder, we witnessed some scenes of violence on the part of the police. That doesn't have to rave us either. It's only natural that after so many years of inertia, some reincarnating ensembles that exist within the police force, in ELAS, now seek revenge. We must not forget that in the parliamentary elections where policemen voted in separate sections had very high percentages the Golden Dawn. These high rates, I imagine, continue to exist. This is a real danger and we will not solve this problem by talking about 'pats, pigs, murderers'. So we amplify the most extreme right-wing forces within the Greek Police. The greatest guarantee, however, is the police itself to investigate disciplinary misconduct. There is currently the National Mechanism of Investigation of the Citizens' Counselor, who has been established to cooperate with the police and investigate these incidents. I ask the Minister, which of the incidents that have seen the light of publicity in recent times have been referred to the Citizens' Counselor, what answers has the Citizen's Counselor gave, and what measures has ELAS taken? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, too. Mr. Economou has the floor for his answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. A key and unnegotiable priority for the Greek Police is the protection of the constitutionally established individual and social rights of citizens, as well as the facilitation of their exercise in the current constitutional order. I would like to stress that the priorities of the Ministry of Civil Protection and the Headquarters of the Hellenic Police are the control of any illegal, irregular or inappropriate behaviour of police officers, both in the performance of their service and outside orderly service. Such checks shall be carried out through the incomplete monitoring of all incidents throughout the territory, as well as complaints or information, by issuing and similar orders. Moreover, the defence of the authority of the institutions, such as the Greek Police, primarily dictates the internal investigation of any suspicion of infringement by its staff under the guarantee of the provisions of administrative and disciplinary jurisdiction. As you are also aware, by decision of the Minister of Civil Protection, on 21 November 2019, a special committee was set up, chaired by Professor of Constitutional Law, Mr. Alivizatos. The task of the Committee is to monitor regularly the implementation process by the relevant bodies of the observations and findings of the independent administrative authority of the Co-Chairman of the Citizens' Association, in part concerning the administrative investigation of disciplinary misconduct, which may be carried out by the staff of the Hellenic Police. I note that, in reply to your question, the special committee referred to above, since its establishment on 21 November 2019, to date, has met once. The Greek Police, moreover, faithfully following the doctrine of transparency which it supports and applies, with the initiation of the arbitrary investigation mechanism, immediately aligned with the obligation to notify the mechanism of all relevant orders of the jurors of an administrative inquiry, Article 26 of the d.d. 120/2008 and preliminary administrative examinations. Since the entry into force of that principle as a national mechanism, that is to say, as of 9 June 2017, the Headquarters Police Office has sent correspondence in electronic form, which concerned four hundred and forty-three cases for arbitrary investigations falling under the provisions of Law 4443/2016. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] In particular, in 2017, from 9 June 2017 to 31 December 2017, this address was sent to the Citizens' Counselor ninety-two cases, of which forty concerned juror administrative examinations under Article 26 d.d. 120/2008, and fifty two preliminary administrative exams. In 2018, he sent a hundred and eighty-one cases to the Citizen’s Counselor, of which sixty one concerned juror administrative exams under Article 26 B.C.E. 120/2008, a sworn administrative examination under Article 27 of the same Presidential Decree and a hundred nineteen preliminary administrative examinations. In 2019, from January 1st 2019 to December 9th 2019, he sent to the Citizen's Counselor a hundred seventy cases, of which fifty-four concerned juror administrative exams under Article 26 of the B.C. 120/2008, three jury administrative examinations under Article 27 and one hundred thirteen preliminary exams. In relation to the alleged instances of abuse, mistreatment and extremist behaviour of police officers allegedly committed on 17 November in Athens, following the end of the events and the march, and raised as such in the electronic and printed press, I inform you, in reply to your relevant question, that there has already been an order for preliminary administrative examinations. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Likewise for the alleged incidents regarding the mistreatment of civilians and the extreme behaviour of police officers allegedly taking place on December 6th in Athens following the conclusion of the events and the course for the memory of Alexander Gregopoulou and made public on the electronic and printed press, a sworn administrative examination was ordered.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u67	Minister, you have to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u68	In all cases, the investigations were commissioned to officers who have no administrative reliance on the services involved and the officers involved. And after they were finished and before a decision was taken, they will be sent to the Citizens' Counselor for control and opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u69	Here, Mr Kamine, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. We will be able to say that we have really taken a big step on the issue of police disciplinary responsibilities, when culture prevails within the European Union itself, so that it itself effectively through normal disciplinary procedures, namely the juror of administrative trials and preliminary examinations, impose legality. I am sure that the committee chaired by Mr Alivizatos will do a very good job. But its greatest offer will be to pass the spirit within the police force that the police themselves should control these incidents. Unfortunately, we have a great tradition of arbitrariness and incompleteness - not to say inexistent - to investigate such cases in the Greek Police. There are too many, massy, condemning decisions by the European Court of Human Rights. I will tell you a story, Minister, since I was a Citizen's Counsellor, which concerns the Port House, but there are also PPE. It's the Zodul case. An immigrant, who was raped by a group of porters, appealed to the Citizen’s Counselor. The Citizens' Counsel has checked the disciplinary procedure - the one had been carried out by the Port Council itself - and found it completely unsatisfactory. He ordered a new disciplinary procedure. He wasn't heard. The party concerned appealed to the European Court of Human Rights and for the first time after the dictatorship the country was convicted of torture. We have too many other decisions, where there has been very great sluggishness and even incomplete investigation into disciplinary cases. The Citizens' Counselor has proposed to you as the National Opportunities Investigation Mechanism by the Security Body at least in these cases, the Administrative Head, the Chief of ELAS, apologise, once these offences have been dropped, due to the delay of the Greek administration and the Greek justice. If he had then done so, as requested by the Citizens' Counsel, our country would have avoided this conviction of torture. I repeat. It is welcome to establish mechanisms outside the hierarchy of ELAS in order to investigate disciplinary cases. But the great victory will be when the ELAS itself will now be able to deliver justice within it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u71	Thank you too, Mr Kamine, for being absolutely consistent. The Minister has the floor. Please, Minister, answer within three minutes. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u72	With regard to the way the staff of the Greek Police are performed, I repeat that the Ministry's position on the basis of the absolute and absolute respect for the fundamental principle of legality, from which the actions of the state bodies are carried out, is consistent and unnecessarily resolute. Although it is unnecessary to say, the question of protecting the rights of citizens and the behaviour of police officers towards citizens is, without question, of primary importance for the political leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection and the leadership of the Greek Police. Let me point out here a reality regarding the Greek police and its political leadership. The Citizens' advocate is not treated as an independent authority supervising the respect of human rights by the police. Because the police itself in its internal process has much earlier frameworks and disciplinary mechanisms, in order to deviate the behaviour of police officers not only to be controlled but also to be punished. In fact, it is not by chance that Minister Chryssohoid's initiative, without being compelled by anyone or dictated by circumstances, for the creation of the so-called and 'Alvizat' Commission. Nor is it a coincidence that the Greek Police - as the arbitrary investigation mechanism itself says - was directly in line with the obligation to notify the case in question. It is worth noting, in fact, that the Greek Police after the yearly report of the Citizens' Counselor for 2018 took a legislative initiative in line with his proposals with the aim of improving the way disciplinary law, as laid down in the provisions of Presidential Decree 120/2008. Furthermore, it has also been proposed to amend specific provisions to that end. I would mention this in support of the position that the institution of the police is not inactive or anachronistic. I would like to assure you that we are defending and guaranteeing the protection of the hard core of the individual freedoms on which the Hellenic Republic is founded in an absolute manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u73	We move to the sixth question under number 308/10-12-2019 of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament 2 North Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Klonas Gregoriadis to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "Police violence and arbitraryness during the commemoration events for the anniversary of Alexander Gregopoulou's death". Mr Gregoriadis has the floor
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, first of all, thank you very much for being here every time to answer us. Mr President, Minister, last Friday after the end of the course for the eleven years of memory of the murder of the minor Greek citizen Alexandros Gregopoulou from police in an hour's service, we have all seen on social media and the channels that incidents have taken place - fortunately - of short duration and extent on the roads surrounding the region of Exarches. And yet, during these little incidents, the police, as always, naturally brought in. As we all know, there are no arrests, Minister. However, during these invitations, we were amazed - I think most Greeks were surprised by this - men of MATs to strip people who were inclined, men of MATs to beat people who had already surrendered and shouted "I surrender". The audiovisual material of these attacks, Minister, is a virtuous witness to humiliation and violation of fundamental human rights. The Greek Police and the leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection are responsible for the attitude and behaviour of police forces. Let me repeat the question I asked in an earlier question: Do we live, Minister, in a police-driven society? The men of the Security Corps have the right to perpetuate basic human rights and violence? Are these violations and unacceptable practices being controlled by the police, or are they covered and protected by political leadership? I have heard you say about the SADs and list them. I want you to answer how many of them led a police officer to prison, or whatever. I want you to give us that number too, not only how many SADs have been done, but how many of them have worked. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Will the findings of the ESA ordered to examine these incidents on how police forces act, be used to refer the perpetrators to justice, or will impunity continue? And I shall end right away, Mr President. Mrs Anastasia Tsukala, who teaches forensics at the University of Paris Sud, says in her article: "The solution is to implement the decision of the Chief of ELAS which obliges the repression forces to bear distinctively". I remind you, Minister, that fate and fate play strange games. This decision is yours when you were the Chief of the Greek Police and you were totally embodied in the political lead of Mr. Michael Chrysochidis. I want an answer to that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u75	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. As I said before, the protection of the constitutionally guaranteed civil and social rights, as well as the facilitation of their exercise in the current constitutional order, is a key and unnegotiable priority for the Greek police. Following faithfully the doctrine of transparency that the Hellenic Police supports and applies within it, with the start of the operation of the Succession Investigation Mechanism directly aligned with the obligation to notify the mechanism of all relevant orders of a jury of administrative exams and preliminary administrative examinations. In particular, since the entry into force of this mechanism, from 9 June 2017 until today, the Police Officer’s Directorate has sent a total of four hundred forty-three cases for arbitrariness under the provisions of Law 4443/2016. It is also known that by decision of the Minister of Citizen Protection on 21-11-2019 a special committee was set up under the chairmanship of the Professor of Constitutional Law Mr.Alivizatou, in order to monitor the implementation by the Greek Police of both the opinions of the Citizens' Counselor and generally to exercise supervision and control over the proper application of the provisions on disciplinary control and monitoring of all these cases concerning the possible exercise of police force. In particular, in relation to the alleged incidents of abuse, mistreatment or extreme behaviour of police officers who took place on 6 December in Athens following the conclusion of the events and the course for the memory of Alexander Gregopoulou, it is noted that a sworn administrative examination has been ordered. It is well known that the Citizens' Counsel has been informed immediately and after the end of it, and before the decision is taken it will be sent to him for scrutiny and opinion. In case it did not come to your attention, I will read that on December 7, 2019 a announcement was issued by the Headquarters of the Hellenic Police that “The Headquarters of the Hellenic Police sends to the National Succession Investigation Mechanism of the Citizens' Counselor videos and reports on incidents of police violence on yesterday's events and events in Alexandros Gregopoulou's memory on request that they be investigated by priority. At the same time, citizens are called upon to have corresponding material or witnessed, or consider that they have suffered violence on similar occasions to respond to the above-mentioned investigation mechanism of the Citizens' Counselor." On the basis of all the above, I believe that the main questions you raise have been answered. I would like to believe that as a parliamentarian you do not support as a human right within a democratic state the defendant, in the name of his or her ideology and anarchy, is entitled to unlawful and unobtrusively exercise violence and arbitrariness, by blacking and by visiting in this way the right of thousands of other fellow citizens to protest peacefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u77	Here, Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u78	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, first of all the last part of your answer has not really understood it at all. It's self-evident, you don't have to want to believe it. It is clear that we are in favour of legitimacy and that is why we are all here in the Greek Parliament. I wanted to tell you a few things. I'm sorry to say it, but you really didn't answer any of my questions. I asked you very specific questions. I repeat them, because we have the opportunity to answer them now. How many of the SADs that have been ordered - about four hundred you listed three times with Mr Kamine - have also brought sanctions to how many police officers? It is a very clear question that you have not answered. Second question related to the first: It has been proved over time that both the ESAs and the Citizens' Counselor are not effective in controlling police violence. What is effective, and proven effective, is to bear discreetly to fear that personal responsibility will be attributed to them. And I remind you - yet you did not answer me, so I am telling you, and I am surprised that you did not answer - that in 2010 with you the same Chief, Mr. Leuteris Economou, and with the same Minister you made a decision as general at the time and Chief of Greek Police. The decision was very specific. You made the decision, in order to avoid such evils, that people should bear their distinctives and not have these cords that cover discreet ones. Today you are a State Secretary and Mr Chrysochoidis is Minister and I am very surprised that the men of the class restoration units are still being covered. Questions are very specific and I would ask you to answer me. I didn't get them out of my head. I repeat that Mrs Tsukala is a university teacher at a very well-established and valid university and she says - she is a forensicist, teaches forensics - that the only effective thing is to be afraid of the subject, namely the man of the MATs, that they will reach him, because there is a figure that represents him. Why don't you do that, Minister? Finally, the days that we lived in the last week reminded us of what we saw from Chile to the international news agencies. That must be a concern to you both as a man and a politician. That's not a situation. We are in the European Union. They cannot become yurts and people uncontrollable to push passers. And of course, those who commit illegal acts must be arrested. Passing girls, however, should not be pushed. Also, detainees should not become siege rams to beat the back of another detainee who holds him three other policemen. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u79	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u80	The order to which you refer shall be valid and shall not be withdrawn. We will no doubt also see its faithful respect. As far as the results of the CEDs are concerned, I have no problem with the evidence, because they are also very serious criminal offences. Therefore, at the moment, I do not have the readiness to reply to you with specific figures. It is certain, however, that all these cases in which guilt arise are also sent to justice and the criminal proceedings are in place. Be absolutely sure of this. No one is prepared to behave like this, who first offend the entire staff of the Greek Police, to be relieved. I'm totally unequivocal about this, and I want you to believe it. The Greek police officer and Greek police officer every day give the battle against crime and infraction. The Greek Police are fighting today and fighting for the common good, for the public order, for the security of citizens and their property. However, it is the climate of suspicion and denial in your question, but also in your positions. I have to remind you that the Greek police have been mourning at least a hundred and twenty dead in the fight against crime and at the same time hundreds injured. Whenever some - call them as you think - flying molotovs, policemen are across the street to protect human lives and property and, unfortunately, dozens of them are often transported with injuries and burns to hospitals. They, Mr. Gregoriadis, don't they have human rights? Aren't they working people? Don't they have families and kids waiting for them at night?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u81	What does that have to do with anything, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u82	I have been publicly asked in this Chamber about such questions of content and styles against the Greek Police from Mera25. Today I will ask again not about your final questions - that is your right - but the convicted and prejudicial condemnation of the police to look at the text of your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u83	But where did you see that, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u84	In the end, however, everything is judged by the result. You cannot change the fact that the police and political leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection achieved in their mission and at the celebration of the Polytechnic anniversary and the measures for the day of the Gregopoulou's murder. If there were individual epilepsy incidents, they are investigated, and as always responsibilities will be attributed. However, the Greek police cannot be indicted and must be apologised, because they are professed to do their duty with a high sense of responsibility by obeying the Constitution and the laws of the state.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u85	However, in my question there was no prejudice. You must be prejudiced to discover prejudice. My question was kind and I have repeatedly stated that I do not just respect and appreciate the work of those people who operate low wages, but that I also love them. And I repeat it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u86	To make us happy, as you at the theatre, Mr. Gregoriadis, you suddenly cannot show yourself on the stage and say what you want, something like this is happening here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u87	Excuse me, Mr. President. You're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u88	I'll tell you now something like a doctor Mr. Blondie will agree. Do you know what we doctors are dealing with in the exercise of our duties? A hundred heavy patients if a doctor saves, relatives say "God saved him". Two to die not by mistake, but because medical science couldn't do anything, the relatives say "the doctor sent him". Something like that is police work. A thousand well to do, the citizens consider it - and not unfairly - to be self-evident, that this is their duty and the oath they have given. Two wrong things to do - I'm not talking about you now, because I understood your question - we're about to hang all the cops in the handkerchiefs. But that's unfair.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u89	Absolutely unfair.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that two questions will be asked to Mr Vésiropoulos and then a question from Mr Xanthos to Mr Kikilias. We will begin with the first with the number 312/10-12-2019 time question of the second-round question of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Akaterini Papanatziou to the Minister of Finance on the subject of the European Union's (EU) ruling on tsipouro - tsikoudia and the protection of two-day producers. Mrs Papanatsiou will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Vésiropoulos. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u91	Minister, Mr President, in accordance with the provisions of the Customs Code on tsipuro and tsikoudia produced by systematic distillers, a reduced rate of 50% is applied for excise duty on ethyl alcohol compared to the applicable regulation. Also, under Article 82 of the National Customs Code, tick and tick, produced by the two-day distillers, have a flat-rate tax of EUR 0,59 per kilogram of finished product. At European Union level, a judicial procedure has been completed against our country, not only for the privileged status of EUR 0.59, but also for the reduced rate of 50%, which concerns systematic producers. This issue was raised by the 1992 directive on which the reduced rate was not foreseen at that time. Here we all know that tick and tick are about a traditional product. It is also traditional that the two-day regime is also of cultural value. In this sense, and we as a previous government have made sure that we cover a number of things that concern the two-day producers. We have forced them to have tax documents. Also, for the 20 litres that are for own consumption, tax documents are excluded. We have also given the possibility of not selling wholesalely by other than the producers themselves, and in addition, we have had a decisive activity in the process of amending the directive. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like one more minute to finish this. In amending the directive, I would like to say that, on the basis of our actions, a final proposal has been drawn up for the first time, specifying the possibility of being at 50% for systemic tick and tick and, of course, for the first time, the possibility for small producers, by way of derogation, has been introduced for the first time. Minister, what action will you take on the basis of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u92	Convicted decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u93	Yeah. Minister, I shall mention a few more things in my dentistry. We're not across from you. We're with you and you know that we'll be your allies to claim them and en sure them. I would also like to ask you what initiatives you will take for the Community directive under way.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u94	Good. Besides, it's a tick. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. My colleague, as you know, our Government has been faced with the decision of the European Court of Justice during the first three days of its term of office, which will lead to a dead end to the producers of traditional alcoholic products in our country, who will be called upon to pay an increased tax. Let me remind you that the elections were held on 7 July and the European Court of Justice ruling was adopted on 11 July. This means that there has been insufficient preparation on the part of the SYRIZA Government to prevent us from leading to this unfavourable decision. I'm not saying that. It results from the result. The Court of Justice judgment of the European Court of Justice considers that Greece has infringed Union legislation on alcohol and alcoholic beverages in two cases: first, by applying a rate of excise duty reduced by 50% in relation to the normal national rate for tick and tick produced by the distillation undertakings, the so-called ‘systemic distillers’, and second, by applying a significantly reduced rate of excise duty of EUR-0,59 per kilogram - to the distillation product of the two-day small distillers. The decision does not impose any financial penalty against Greece, but only if there is no compliance, further procedures and economic sanctions are provided for. At the moment, our government, the New Democracy Government, is the one trying to correct things, to break the deadlock on producers. And we're working with a plan. In particular: there is already intervention in the European Commission on our part in order to allow a time limit for compliance of Greek legislation with the Union framework and the decision of the court by the end and the next period of distillation, i.e. until 31 August 2021. I would like to point out that the apostate period, as defined in Article 6(d) of the EU Regulation, starts on 1 August and ends on 31 July of the following year. This will give us time and opportunity to promote our main strategic objective. Who's that? It is the change in the provisions that caused this negative decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Our aim is to apply to our country, at European level, reduced excise duty rates for both tick and tick - the systemic - and the products for distillation of small distillers, the so-called two-day ones. And here we are building alliances, informing about our positions and providing documented arguments. There have been meetings and extensive consultations with the other Member States - members within the framework of meetings of the Council of the European Union and ECOFIN Council, where a positive climate has been recorded, since no reservations have been expressed. We hope that during the period of the Croatian Presidency, which starts with the new year, the process of revising the institutional framework that created us the problem will be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u96	I, too, hope that the European Court of Justice will have equal weightings because, for example, it does not use the same measures and weights for French products. Ms. Papanaceu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, in amending this Community directive, we have worked very closely with the officials of the permanent Greek delegation in Brussels, with my colleagues at the Ministry, but also with the Independent Public Income Authority. And I would like to thank everyone and everyone who worked on it. Some very intense negotiations took place at the last May sessions - between 13 and 16- 2019 and we had reached the national line presented by our representatives, where they seem to be positive for our country and especially for the producers. In our view, the directive achieves two things: it now introduces the tsipuro into the reduced rate regime, at 50% of the standard rate for alcoholic beverages, thereby ensuring its uninterrupted production and, at the same time, protects this traditional product against competition, as the President has mentioned, with similar products from other countries. It also introduces for the first time the position of small two-day distillers, which we wanted to achieve from the first moment that this amendment has come to our attention. And on this issue, as the service actors will certainly have informed you, there has been a large number of reactions from the Member States. I am pleased that we seem to be in the same direction and that you will go further than the Community directive. Our country's representatives at the AAC, our partners and the relevant department followed our instructions, so we have this satisfactory result. In conclusion, I would like to point out that by introducing the reduced rate for tsipuro and tsipudia into the scheme you have inherited a much better situation at the level of delimitation of the domestic production of traditional alcoholic products, and that gives you a dynamic for the issue we are discussing today. However, we have to note this: on the occasion of the letter you mentioned a little earlier, that you are waiting and asking for a deadline for August 2021, because here we have a reply from Mr Moskovis to Mr Kefaliannis, have you planned some things in the event of a negative answer? What's your design? The second question concerns the conclusion of the extension you requested. What's the design? We understand, of course, here that there is some interaction with the results of the revision of the directive. Are you going to continue on the basis of our instructions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u98	For the Minutes, Mrs Papanatsiou, I assume you mean Mr Manolis Kefaloyannis, as a Member of the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u99	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u100	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, I must admit that I was very impressed by the reference you made to your question about'major' protection measures that you have taken as a government in the three years 2016-2019 for the protection of two-day small distilleries. And not only does it give me an impression, but it also gives all these people who have experienced the consequences of your policy. Let me remind you that you have taken measures which burdened the two-day distillers, such as the issue of tax data and accounting records, but above all the abolition of the favourable regulation on the disposal of the second-hand right. On the other hand, the negative decision of the European Court of Justice illustrates the inability and inadequacy of the previous government to intervene at European level, to table a documented proposal, to defend the national regime for the taxation of traditional alcoholic beverages and to protect the interests of both systematic distillers and small distillers in our country. It proved to be the result of this. We, as I told you, have already made moves. Our aim is to safeguard in Directive 82/93/EEC the existing arrangements for the taxation of traditional alcoholic products in our country so that no further action is required to comply with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. However, in order not to lead to a dead end the producers of traditional alcoholic products. The proposal for a revision of this directive could not be adopted within the time frames of the Finnish Presidency, but we hope that, with Croatia's presidency taking office in the next six months, there will be a positive development. Because there's a government that works together and with a plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u102	The fourth question under number 310/10-12-2019 will now be discussed in the context of the second question by MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni, Minister for Finance, on the subject: "Department of the Scaramaga pier in the Municipality of Heidari". Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this is a very important issue for western Athens. This pier is the only exit to the sea. Previously it was one of the most beautiful beaches in Athens. Not long ago. We are talking about until the 1960s when the illegal work on the messing of this neighbouring area began because of the shipyards. It was a consistent request of the Municipality of Haidari to grant this area to the municipality. Now that the debate on the renewal and unification of the archaeological site of Haidari, Iera Odos, which we have the most natural part of the Holy Odos, which begins from the garden of Diomedes and the ancient monuments there, continues at the Monastery of Daphni, crosses across the Temple of Aphrodite and reaches the ancient lake of the Reetes and Lake Koumoundouros and reaches the point, on the pier, this restoration must proceed, to create there the great archaeological walk of Athens. This area should therefore be allocated to public use. In fact, that was a commitment from the previous government. It was a commitment by Mr. Vitsa that when the hot spot function at Scaramaga is completed, this area will be allocated to the municipality. But shortly afterward we saw this area transferred to the EBRD, and recently with Law 4635/2019, it was included in the areas that might be allocated to the future owner of the shipyard, other than those agreed, except those that were being discussed for as long as. This is all completely unreasonable in the face of this local society. That is why we want your commitment that this area, when the hot spot is completed, will be allocated to the municipality and that parts of it are not currently used by the hot spot will be given directly to the Municipality of Haidari. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u104	Mr. Besiropoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, as you can see, especially for you, this is the third time I have answered a timely question, the Government respects the procedure of parliamentary scrutiny and the colleagues who exercise it, just like you and other colleagues. We do not need to make comparisons with the recent past and how they treat previous government ministers on parliamentary control issues, where they often did not come to answer. Your question, Mr Colleague, relates to pier 4 in Scaramaga, which had previously been allocated to the shipyard. Let me refer to the history. First of all, EBRD S.A. has already been running and managing the entire area since 2011 as a successor to the former ‘KEDS S.A.’. On the basis of Article 196(4) of Law No.4389/2016, ETAD S.A. has ownership of the property as well, and the relevant right has been transferred to the transfer books of the Haidari Treasury in volume 401 with order number 60. As you know, L.4389/2016 is the law of the Supreme Council and EBRD S.A. is its subsidiary. I should also like to remind all colleagues that the superstition granted to the entire public property for ninety years is the only creation of Mr Tsipras' proud negotiation. No government had come up with such a move. From there on, in 2017, with a decision of the SYRIZA Government, part of the pier was converted into hot spot. Obviously in this way the previous government meant making use of the space. And that still exists today is a problem that the previous government has inherited us and which we are trying to deal with. From that point on, there were the specific needs for the completion of the Navy's armament programme with the submarines and other ships in the shipyards' field, which is why Article 215 of Law 4635/2019 "Invest in Greece" provided additional funding from the budget of the Ministry of National Defence for the completion of the necessary work within the "Greek Shipyard S.A.", with a view to the full operational performance of the four submarines and ships of the Navy. I shall refer to other issues in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u106	Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, what you are describing does not appear - nor does our knowledge - that the shipyards need this pier. It was never used by the shipyards. It does not result from any operational plan of the shrimped shipyards - to be honest - that it is their lack of space. The activities are missing, not the expansion area. Therefore, it really does not appear that the pier is useful to the shipyards, that there is some other need in the public interest and that the only access of the seven municipalities to the sea cannot be attributed to the citizens. I would also like to repeat that it is not just a symbolic right to access the sea. It is the natural integration, what we call the "great archaeological walk of Athens", with the unification of the archaeological sites that are very easy and ready to become, of the Holy Odos, where we have a few meters away from each monument another important monument. We arrive in the part of the Holy Odos, which reaches the sea apparently and Scaramaga, what has stayed closer to how it was in ancient times, offers a unique experience for the visitor of Athens, who may be an archaeological walk that every visitor of Athens will use. So we really see that need. So, indeed, we see this need, when the hot spot is completed, to have a return obligation, to the municipality and to the extent that it is not used, to be directly attributed to the municipality - at least right now - and to its use, if you own it, if you say that there is a problem. Although we have seen from other cases that areas such as archaeological sites, which were given to the superstition, are being returned to the State by withdrawal of the relevant decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u108	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Colleague, as I mentioned in my prology, the EBRD operates independently on the basis of the law on the establishment of the supra-fund N.4389/2016, since it is a subsidiary of the EBRD. We did not create this framework, we found it and you know very well who signed it. From there on, any concession to the municipality is linked to certain conditions, such as the deposit of an integrated plan, if it is a concession linked to public-private actions. In this context, I believe that the EBRD will be called upon to place itself. Since I have been informed by the EBRD administration, I have to tell you that the company is currently in a phase of analysis of all data and scenarios for exploiting this particular area. And always, of course, within the existing legislative framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u110	And we are eloquently reaching the last question for today, which is the second question under number 305/9-12-2019, the first question of the Rethymnon MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The implementation of the National Action Plan on hepatitis C is delayed." Mr. Xanthos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u111	Minister, I think it's a common place that hepatitis C is a serious public health problem for both our country and internationally. The population estimated to be chronic vectors is about 100 thousand. There is a strategy from the World Health Organisation to eliminate and eradicate the disease by exploiting modern anti-viral treatments, which are very effective by 2030. This strategic objective has been agreed by our country since 2016. The "responsible" and "destructive" government of SYRIZA has made sure to shield the country and its population in this very sensitive area of public health. A group of worthwhile experts, scientists, who have drawn up a National Action Plan, has therefore approved it, appointed a committee monitoring its implementation and, above all, has, for the first time in the country, negotiated with pharmaceutical companies, where we have been able to obtain very affordable compensation prices for modern anti-medicine medicines. This was in 2017. In this way, we had the possibility of fivefold for patients who could be treated. In this way approximately two thousand eight hundred people were treated a year and it is estimated that more than 25% of the population that are chronic have already been treated and have actually been cured. Of course, there is a serious subdiagnosis problem, because the population, the target group and the target population are sensitive and vulnerable groups and groups of people, such as drug users and prisoners. For this very reason, the monitoring and implementation committee has taken concrete measures, a directive has been given through the electronic prescription system and those born from 1945 to 1980, which are considered to have an increased prevalence of the disease, are recommended to carry out tests for hepatitis C antibodies. Already a hundred and seventy thousand people have done this, and some of those who did not know it, were diagnosed and treated. The first negotiation ended, the criteria for access to modern treatments were expanded, the second phase began, the subject of a clinical evaluation, reached the Negotiations Committee, the negotiation was completed as of June 2019 and its final adoption by you has been pending, to start to compensate for these treatments, to which patients have access, of course, at a lower cost for...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Xanthi, you need to pack it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u113	I shall conclude, Mr President. So the question is: First, how quickly will this process proceed? You have, in our view, delayed too much, five months. You have just changed the committee a week ago. There is still no timetable for the completion of this process. You have not even met either the chairman of the Monitoring Committee or the members of the Negotiations Committee so far, and you have not made sure that you have an overview of the outstanding issues, problems and prospects of this matter. The second is whether the National Committee for the Enforcement of the Action Plan will be supported, so that the necessary laboratory tests can proceed quickly, to approve the compensation for genotypic tests that have been costed by the ERC...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u114	Mr. Xanthi, I can't give you any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u115	I think that is the point, how quickly the National Action Plan will proceed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u116	You've become understandable. Here, Minister, you have the floor. You'll have a relative tolerance too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u117	Mr President, thank you very much. I don't want to abuse time, but when the Minister, who is a moderate man and politician and, in general, I think, he counts his words and think well before he moves forward, he decided to ask me a question about the negotiation of hepatitis C and the National Action Plan on hepatitis C, I didn't believe in my ears. Minister, you know what? Perhaps the good intention of the Ministry of Health's political leadership of what it has to do with a minimum of consensus on health should not be misunderstood. It doesn't mean that this comes and is based on oblivion. And I'm explaining: The negotiation history of hepatitis C: The Negotiation Committee - I remind you - hepatitis C and all this context must say in the logic of public health. As far as public health is concerned, what you have to testify to the four and a half years of your administration has been very poor. One would expect knowledge of the issue of health, but also of care, such as you and Mr Paulakis, that in four and a half years you will come with a bill on public health, with a framework bill setting out all the rules on prevention, pre-treatment, information, screening and vaccination in order to protect the health of the population. Especially with the burden on us and the refugee - immigration - which was a gateway to people from other countries where health systems are doubtful and we did not know what we have to expect. Instead, you come and ask me in the five months when I am a Minister of Health, what I have done. Can I tell you what you have done with the context and public health? Nothing. Apart from that, you set up a committee - and you did well - with people of unknown prestige - I too accept that - and an action plan that is theoretical.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u118	Theoretically?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u119	If I may. I didn't interrupt you. The numbers you have invoked are far from paradoxical to the numbers of those people who have been treated or predicted. But let's go check out the history of your hepatitis negotiation because you're abducting us that we're already delaying. The negotiating committee started procedures for hepatitis C in the summer of 2016, Minister. Since the summer of 2016, the hepatitis C agreement came into force and brought it on 1-7-2017, after one year, and was valid until 31-8-2018. Are you sure you want to ask me this question? Are you still insisting on continuing to talk? One year you've brought in the first deal on hepatitis. It expired in September 2018 and was never renewed. There was never a new deal about hepatitis. At the same time, in September 2018 you opened the criteria for the access of patients with hepatitis, but at the same time without saving resources through the negotiation process. And until June 2019, when you were responsible, there was no new agreement, as it is certified by the adoption of the relevant ministerial decision on the positive list. For a very simple reason, Minister. Because you've never completed the hepatitis negotiation after a year. I therefore believe that it is obviously incomprehensible from your point of view. Instead of coming here and apologise for your delays, your frustrations and a negotiation for the hepatitis that lasted for a whole year and you left it open, you come here to ask me a question!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u120	Here you go, Mr. Xanthi. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u121	I fear there is a lack of understanding of the problem, Minister. I'm saying it with all the good sense. In fact, public health is a very sensitive area and area to become a micro-policy. We don't do micropolicy. You had the Chief of the New Democracy start his speech a year ago by talking about the flu dead and abducing the previous government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u122	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u123	We are not playing on these issues. You, with irresponsible and populism, had handled them all over the previous period. And for the flu and measles you permanently invoked us and loaded us with death. The parentheses are closed. So, my dear Minister, we did something that has never been done in the country. For the first time, a negotiation with pharmaceutical companies was carried out for affordable prices to medicines. It's never happened before. The first negotiation was delayed because there was no clinical evaluation committee - a HTA committee - and actually did this. If you see what is happening in the other countries of Europe, this is the crucial time to complete a clinical evaluation and price negotiation process. So we took the first step. This has never happened in Greece before. We have sub-popular values in high-value and high-priced drugs, of course. People came in and he was cured. And the disease was grubbed up, a major public health issue was tackled. So this first phase is over. The clinical evaluation and the negotiation of new medications with the new data began directly. The clinical evaluation was completed in spring. The negotiations took place at the beginning of 2019. It was completed in May. The final conclusion of the negotiating committee, agreed and signed and pending by you is the inclusion of the new medicines selected in the EEA compensation. So we have five months lost in compensation and the sustainable capacity of the EEAS to cover these treatments. Of course, the patients are all coming in, with expanded criteria, and that is very important. Do you know that this negotiation, Mr. Minister, also applies to Cyprus? And that was our country's initiative, and it was a national matter. We have ensured that the price we will get for hepatitis C medicines also relates to the population of Cypriot citizens. He expects Cyprus to put an end to this loose end so that it can also compensate for sustainable prices, because now he is paying too much. Do you know that we have taken multiple international initiatives at transnational level? This is the well-known Valletta initiative for a joint negotiation of the countries of the European South. Have you asked for information on these things? Do you have a picture of what our country and the Ministry have done in this sensitive area? Or are you coming here now and telling us just nice and great words? Public health, Minister, is not just the anti-smoking law and vaccines, which you do well to bear. There are many other issues of crucial importance that concern vulnerable populations, which concern disadvantaged groups of the population, to which in my view you must show due care. Finally, call on the people who have been approved by the state to oversee this field scientifically to discuss with them. I have here a number of documents where they ask for a meeting with you, with the State Secretary, with the Secretary-General of the Ministry and they do not receive a reply. The patients are struggling too, and the scientific community is struggling. They are fighting in Cyprus to conclude the negotiations and you are now telling us that it is our fault that we are late to make the first negotiation that took place in our country ever.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Kikilia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u125	Thank you very much, Mr President. 'Question of the Secretary of State to the Ministry of Health for hepatitis. Storming response, the Minister's response. The measles in 2017, measles in 2018, what Kyriakos Mitsotakis said by election etc.’. It is obvious, Minister, that you are deeply exposed to the way in which you left an important public health issue to complain for bureaucratic reasons and because you were unable to complete the hepatitis negotiation within a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u126	It's done. You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u127	Don't interrupt me and don't get upset. The Ministry of Health legal service tells us that you are exposed to the way you negotiated hepatitis and left it "in the air". You have also left us with legal outstandings that we need to regulate in order to be able to do the same in Cyprus. I'm explaining again to make people understand. You've been Minister of Health for four and a half years. Last time a bill came to regulate public health, the former Minister of the New Democracy and now Vice-President of the Parliament, Nikitas Kaklamanis, brought it in 2005. It's been a long time since. You and my colleague, Mr Paulakis, did not commit to bringing a bill on public health, which is the number one topic regulated in every modern country in the world. You must defend as a framework prevention, pre-symptoms control, vaccination, information, public health campaigns and you have the courage to come here and give me up after two years for hepatitis!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u128	Prevention wants legality?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u129	You left hepatitis, sir, "in the air" a whole year without closing the negotiation and inheriting it to us along with all the other problems of the Ministry of Health. One would expect a moderate politician like you to ask, rather than ask, that we are obviously trying to gather in this area, which you have not been able to complete for the sake of public health. Well, I'm explaining. Starting this year, this political leadership will bring a framework law regulating public health. What did you do for public health? Not even any relationship and cooperation with the former prefectures, regions and water law-makers, any relationship and cooperation with the municipalities. To the luck of the whole story. Only the Western Nile virus with its variations. No framework, no organization, no programming. You have set up a committee that theorized and presented it to me as a major achievement. In fact, Greek taxpayers lose money. You were delayed for one year from 2016 to 2017. Then you went next summer, 1-7-2017 until 2018 to book a deal. You left it open again and finally you could not complete it. Four years you've been playing with Greek taxpayers' money. We lost money. We have set up the Negotiation Committee. In a few days, we'll have a result on hepatitis. When you ask me a question you will know that we do not forget, neither do we, nor the Greek people, what you have done at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u130	What's the result?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u131	And please very much, in that light you will ask me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u132	Are you going to renegotiate? Yes or no? Or will you get the result of our own committee?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. I also have the honour to announce to the House that Congressman Angelos Syrigos is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from Monday, December 16th to Tuesday, 17th, 2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u134	The House therefore approved the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: "Confidentiality Regulations of the Ministry of National Defence". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting of 11 December 2019 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and amendments. I suppose I have the unanimous agreement of this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u136	The House has agreed. It goes without saying that those of us who want it can be registered. The registration system will open as soon as Mr. Mercury Lazaridis goes to Step and will close as soon as Mr. Theodoros Dritsas comes down from Step. Mr. Lazarides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before entering the substance of the draft law, let me have a little introduction. You all know the famous quote of Thucydides in the dialogue between Athenians and Milion. Legal arguments are worthwhile when those who invoke them are about equal in power. On the contrary, the mighty force imposes what his power allows him and the weak one retreats as much as his weakness imposes upon him. Thucydides E89. We live in times of uncertainty. Our neighborhood is particularly unstable. It is assumed that almost all modern security challenges are encountered in the wider Southeastern Mediterranean region. And I'm not talking about threats at academic level. I am talking about what we live and face on a daily basis: increased refugee and migratory flows from the small Asian coasts, challenges regarding the planning of the exploitation of the rich production sources, challenges arising from Turkey's reform and the resulting direct question from the Turkish side of our national sovereign rights. These challenges are part of a Turkey strategy, which we believe will remain and which we are monitoring and analysing all the time. To know, then, our neighbors that nothing remains unanswered. To know in Turkey that Greece will do everything it needs to defend its sovereign rights. We are inappropriately moving on the line of peaceful coexistence and respect for the sovereign rights of each country, on the basis of the rules of international law and good neighbourliness. For us, this is the necessary condition of stability in the wider region. But that's what it wants two to be. Greece is certainly the country that keeps its own part of its responsibility. Turkey, with both its rhetoric and its policy choices towards our country, in particular with its last invalid and irresponsible agreement with Libya or better with the fraudulent Tripolis government, is removed from it. Maintaining our sobriety, but also by highlighting our readiness, the Government of New Democracy and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis are moving on the following three-way development of our national strategy: first, the creation of arterial fronts, self-consciousness and unity inside. This was demonstrated at the meeting of the National Foreign Policy Council last Tuesday. Secondly, the internationalisation of the issue of Turkish challenges, which it has already addressed, as at diplomatic level America, Russia, the European Union, Egypt and Israel have already raised a diplomatic wall, condemning the Turkish attempt to devise non-existent rights in the Mediterranean. The government is also moving forward in the development and conclusion of bilateral agreements with countries such as Egypt and Cyprus. And thirdly, with the overall upgrade of the integrity of the Armed Forces, and this is because it works in strengthening our deterrent capacity. Preventing is the conviction in every direction that due to the preparedness of the Armed Forces' capabilities, it does not interest anyone to think of any appeal against our sovereign interests. That is exactly what we need to strengthen and that is what we are doing with this draft law. The surrounding atmosphere is such that it gives us the opportunity to realize precisely this need, that our deterrent capacity must be at the highest possible level, as it is a major factor in power. So let's see how that happens. The purpose of the proposed draft law is to regulate important and urgent matters of competence of the Ministry of National Defence. The regulatory content of the provisions extends to a number of thematic areas, some of which relate to the highest nationally important operational preparedness and integrity of the Armed Forces. In particular, we are regulating the following topics today: the implementation of our F-16 fighter aircraft modernisation and upgrading programme, as described in the amendment signed on 30 April 2018 under number 6 of the transnational agreement with the United States Government and in particular, in order to finalise the obligations of the exclusive manufacturer of those aircraft ‘LOCKHEED MARTIN’. I think it is now clear from the extensive debate we have had in the relevant committees that the regulation of Article 1 is a necessity which cannot be called into question by anyone. This programme serves the highest public interest, as it provides: The implementation of the programme of modernization of the above aircraft by the Greek Defence Industry, with over 70% being implemented by the Greek Air Industry. It is worth noting that the political leadership of the Ministry of National Defence through the negotiations succeeded in increasing the sub-construction work by 16 million dollars, reaching it from $263 million to $279 million 710 000. That is why they deserve congratulations to the Minister of National Defence Mr. Nikos Panagiotopoulos. The adoption of three draft agreements - framework agreements subsequently, Follow On Support of Fighters for the implementation of the sub-programme of MIRAGE 2000 and MIRAGE 2000/-5 Sub-programme between the Directorate-General for Defence Equipment and Investment of the Ministry of National Defence and the three companies manufacturers ‘DASSAULT AVIATION’, ‘THALES DMS FRANCE’ and ‘SAFRAN AIRCRAFT ENGINES’. The approval becomes necessary to ensure that aircraft of this type are subsequently supported for the next seven years, in respect of the components, electronic systems and their engine. The maintenance, upgrading and supply of these aircraft ensure the availability and functionality of the armed system and therefore are inextricably linked to the air defence power of the Air Force, as it is a fighter that gives us quality superiority in the Aegean, since the Turkish Air Force does not have it. It is noted that for Articles 1 and 2, the delegation of a sub-work to bodies of the Hellenic Defence Industry for the implementation of the programmes will pave the way for the economic recovery and resolution of the companies active in the defence sector and will contribute to their vital industrial competitiveness and thereby stimulate the national economy. The proposed ratification of the settlement agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the companies THYSSENKRUP, MARINE SYSTEMS and ELLIAN NAVELS S.A. is finalising the issue of additional materials, which has emerged as a looseline in the implementation of a 209, "POSSIDE II" programme, as well as other materials necessary for the conduct of present or future maintenance work in the submarines of the Hellenic Navy. In addition, the ratification and signature of the Arrangement is necessary in order to close definitively long and costly judicial disputes on the question of extra materials. The Greek State benefited by this agreement by a total of EUR 20 million. The remaining articles concern urgent arrangements for the personnel of the Armed Forces, as well as for facilitating the functioning of bodies such as: The proposed arrangement referred to in Article 4 entitled ‘Amendment to Article 25 of Law 4494/2017’ responds to the urgent need to allow the payment of outstanding and outstanding debts of military hospitals and NIMFS for expenditure incurred during the period from 1 September 2018 until the entry into force of this draft law concerning the supply of materials, goods and services. By way of derogation from the provisions of Law 4270/2014, Law 4412/2016 and Presidential Decree 80/2016, the proper functioning of such hospitals serving the active and retired personnel of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps and residents of remote areas and other beneficiaries will ultimately be ensured. The career provisions referred to in Article 5 shall strengthen dignity and justice by making the implementation of the relevant legislative provisions substantially in line with the principles of legal certainty and proportionality. A significant improvement, resulting from the rated arrangement, is the adoption of provisions and procedures promoting transparency and impartiality when selecting Heads of the Ministry of National Defence. The arrangements in Article 5 are of two kinds: on the one hand, they ensure that the active service of the long-term volunteers and professional soldiers who are transferred to the House of Permanent Officials is maintained, as with the existing legal status within a short period of time after their transfer, they catch the age limits applicable to the officers and officers and are released prematurely. On the other hand, they ensure the unreserved promotion of the Armed Forces' representatives who joined the Armed Forces from 1985 to 1990 in so far as the Lieutenant and corresponding of the other branches of the Armed Forces are concerned. Article 6 ‘Civil Staff Regulations of the Ministry of National Defence’ ensures impartiality in the decision of the Board of Directors of the Ministry of Defence, on the one hand, through the participation of a Head of Directorate-General of the Ministry of Interior in its composition and, on the other hand, in the provision of access to officials of the Ministry of National Defence, who are serving in units and services which are abolished, dissolved or transferred to another county in a vacant organic position, provided that there is no place of their industry in the general staff to which they belong for their further use. Under Article 7, ‘Amendment to provisions of Law 4446/2016’ provides for arrangements that are helpful to the objective of ensuring the sustainability of the Greek Defence Systems, which make a decisive contribution to the provision of tax and insurance information evidence, the possibility of collecting money from the Greek State, as well as the suspension of enforcement and enforcement measures at the expense of its mobile and immovable property. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also highlight an additional dimension, a policy this time or, better, an institutional one. Unfortunately, as you know, any debate either on acquisition or upgrading of existing weapons systems is accompanied by a suspicion, not unduly, as the past gives us reason for such thoughts. You all remember cases of smuggling public money with malnutritions and overcompensation of weapon systems, as these were also established by judicial decisions. This in turn has led to a reluctance of politicians and soldiers to proceed to self-evident and necessary procurement procedures. At this stage, however, we do not have the luxury of inaction. But here, there is a difference. The difference is, today, that the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and of the New Democracy is doing so, while fully respecting the principle of transparency and at the same time guaranteeing the public interest. The difference is that the institutional roles and procedures are fully respected, contrary to what has been done in the recent past when they were tabled as amendments. And you all of course understand what I'm talking about. But I will stop here because I do not wish to give party time to an issue that relates to our national interests. Contrary to these practices of the past, the draft law was thoroughly studied and thoroughly discussed. We must all recognise the intention on behalf of the Ministry of National Defence and Minister Nikos Panayotopoulos, whom I thank, and also the relevant services of the Parliament and the Secretariat of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, to exhaust the margins of parliamentary procedure in the committees in order to ensure absolute transparency and to ensure the national interest. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need two more minutes, please. I would explain: on the one hand, we had to ensure confidentiality of information on sensitive security issues and on the other hand, we had to have an open debate on all other issues. That is why we have chosen and held the meeting of the Special Standing Committee on Equipment and Contracts which, as you know, is a closed committee, in order to inform the opposition to the right environment and to answer any questions or concerns that have been raised by experts. I believe that our intention to exhaust all the parliamentary tools at our disposal for full information is what differentiates this government. We therefore serve our national obligation to upgrade the integrity of the Armed Forces, without forgetting yet another institutional obligation, full and transparent management of public money, and not only this, but also the strengthening of the domestic defence industry, which means jobs, labour security and the acquisition of staff know-how. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that I started my introduction with a quote from the Athenians and Miles Dialogue, and I did this to remind you of this. In time the political choices of the country's leaders ranked Greece on the victorious side of history. We must keep this at all costs. Apart from the fact that International Law is on our side, apart from the fact that the quality characteristics of the Armed Forces are superior to the immediate corner, we must maintain the reflexes of national unity and unity, because these are the ultimate multiplier of our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u138	But close now, Mr Lazarides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u139	In our history we have never been weak, except when we are not united. We must therefore give everyone, today, with the responsibility, which it sees us, our approval of these urgent arrangements described in this draft law and strengthen the credibility of the Armed Forces. The New Democracy as a nationally responsible political force will do that. I hope the same national cheque will be chosen to serve the rest of the parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u140	Thank you. Let me give you a briefing. So far there have been twenty-one colleagues. Count that until Mr. Dritsa's finished, he'll be about twenty-five. Counting time, with a slight tolerance, we'll go at least until 19:00. I tell you why tomorrow - I remind you - at 18.00 we have the start of the budget and on Sunday at 10: 00 in the morning. I'll let you know that you don't have to be smacked later. Mr Dritsa, please allow Mr Kikilias to come before us to support his amendment from his post for only three minutes, because he has to go to the Ministry. Immediately after you'll take the floor, Mr. Dritsa. Here, Mr. Kikilia, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u141	Mr President, thank you. I only need thirty seconds. Mr. Drizza, thank you very much. I won't be late. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an amendment, which deals with the proportionate implementation of wage incentives for workers under the 'PHILOS II' programme by the National Public Health Agency for all workers in the pre-repeal detention centres for foreigners in PRKA, where working conditions for increasing volumes of refugees and migrants are particularly demanding. It is therefore a question of rationalising and aligning wages and allowances in both these centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u142	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u143	Mr President, can I also support an amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u144	No, now I'm not interrupting. Mr. Drits will talk and we'll see later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u145	Can I ask the Minister something?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u146	Here, Mr. Dritsa, after you gave up your position, you are entitled to the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u147	Minister, positively, we will talk about the amendment later, but there is already an outstanding issue with regard to the wages of workers at the PRECH, who, according to the single wage bill, had a great deal of work in the private sector on the basis of the management principle of the programme and the Court of Auditors, where they are called upon to pay back money, EUR 1 000, EUR 5 000, and all that. Legislation is needed for this. It is an obvious misinterpretation and injustice, which makes it even more difficult for PROKEKAs to be served by health personnel. You need to see it and be informed, because it is a loose end that, if it is not solved in combination, the introduction will be incomplete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u148	Good. Mr Kikilis has the floor for a brief answer, and after that he is here, Mr Dritsa and Mr Vesyropoulos - because that is where the decisions are, we do not hide - I will do him the favor after you to present the amendment, but you will also answer whether the General Accounting Office intends not to ask for the dues back. Here, Mr. Kikilia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Dritsa, I will discuss with AEMY's administrative leadership in order to see in detail what you are referring to and to study it with the Ministry's lawyers as well. If that is true, we can find the right solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u150	In cooperation with Mr Vesyropoulos - I do not leave him in peace - who, after Mr Dritsa, will present the amendment with a general number 126. Here you go, Mr. Dritsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr President. As long as some amendments are positive or necessary it always remains - and we have to make it clear - that the amendments which come to unrelated bills are not a proper piece of legislation, much more so that the multi-project with all the regulations were introduced beforehand and could all have been included there. Ladies and gentlemen, the current draft law by the Ministry of National Defence is an important bill, although its articles are few, the arrangements are specific and individual, it does not create a comprehensive and uniform intervention. In fact, in order to prevent Mr Lazarides and other speakers, it is now ripe to regulate all those initiatives on the specific issues which our Government has promoted, both for the F-16 and for the Mirages and for the replacements of the Hellenic Navy and for the Greek Defence Systems and for all the rest. I do not claim laurels, but, in order to be truly aware of our rhetoric too, to take care of this if there is no stable strategy and a continuity in some things, the Armed Forces cannot do their part. It applies to all of this public in many critical areas, but in particular here it is much more applicable. Equipment. I shall refer to something that Mr Panayotopoulos himself, Minister for National Defence, included in his speech just the day before yesterday at the last meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. He said and felt the need to say it rightly: “Our Armed Forces are surely strong. There is no doubt about this and they remain equipped with very well and advanced weapons systems in all sectors. I would really like us not to endure as a society, but as a media system in this propaganda that we are always disadvantaged or even more disadvantaged. It is a great mistake and it is something which is certainly not the case in terms of our leaders.' This labelling by the Minister with all the debate open to what our strategies must be in relation to the adequacy of equipment or the completion of it is crucial, is vital, because it is a basis for any debate. If we become disqualified and drifted into a climate that is now especially shaped, but also in the past, then we will really be in the process, which I think we should be very careful about. And that's why I also told the committee - that when in 2013 and October 2014, even more prepared, before taking on government responsibility, we visited the head of the President of SYRIZA, Alexis Tsipras - who then gave him the mandate to become Prime Minister and to SYRIZA to govern the country - the Ministry of National Defence at the time and in addition to the few hours of meeting with the then Minister of Defence, Mr Avramopoulos for more than three hours, the President of SYRIZA and his associates had a long time meeting with the military leadership. We have been informed and heard about the concerns of the military leadership at the time, and we have taken note of the fact that taking into account the clear scope of the past of the armaments contracts and the whole situation, which was created, but in particular at the time of the budgetary constraints in the crisis and bankruptcy, we have chosen - and this was the proposal of the SYRIZA, but it was also a common place as it was proved to be with the military leadership - hierarchical, targeted,'smart', as the Minister, Mr Panagiotopoulos, said earlier in his speech, that we should prioritise and prioritise existing military systems to their maintenance, upgrading, spare parts, fuel as the first priority planning - which he wants - and this is to be complemented by the personnel of the Armed Forces with their training and training needs. That was the framework, and that is what we undertook to do with the government. They were Deputy Ministers on the side of SYRIZA, the Minister of National Defence, Panos Kammenos, who was working with the ANELs, but these were observed and we walked on these tracks. What comes today, matured slowly, is the product of this guideline and this practice, which our government has followed, and that is what we all have to do and continue. It is a secure field, it is a field that, in fact, can ensure the adequacy of the Armed Forces, the country's defence armour and, at the same time, protect the country, the public interest, the Armed Forces themselves, from any side effects and interventions that are always real, not only because of corruption, but mainly because of huge international interests, which are played in equipment and major pressures and state interests and companies' interests. We know that. Therefore, we cannot be naive to this. This is why the Convention on the Upgrading of Air Force F-16 aircraft has been completed and has been launched since 2018. Article 1, which is not "implementation of the modernisation and upgrading of F-16 aircraft", as its title says, is an additional agreement for the execution or facilitation of the implementation of the main F-16 upgrading agreement. It would be right - very right - to change this title. We asked for it in committee too. With this, indeed - both from the previous government and the proposal of the then Minister of State at the time, Mr Kammenos - there were many reservations. Because this is linked to the dreadful tradition of compensatory benefits and it is a tail of it and it came in a way that took too much attention. We, and then, as SYRIZA and as SYRIZA MPs, stood with many demands. The New Democracy raised the issue of scandals, retired, created an orchestra and now comes to suggest it! In any case, and now, in fact, both the Minister and the Secretary-General and the other actors, much of our demands to clarify all the data, have gone much further. However, because it is about the implementation of programmes financed by the company maker, the LOCKHEED MARTIN, and other private companies in the defence industry, we all have to do so - and the IAEA and the Ministry and everyone else to monitor this course of implementation of the sub-programmes, with all scrutiny.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u152	And the House!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u153	And I am sure, Minister, that you will assume this responsibility and because the years are ahead, and those who are then in these responsible positions. With this data and with this procedure, we have come to the point, yes, to accept, to approve Article 1 and this agreement, despite the fact, as I have said, that we are obliged, not to be suspicious, but to look at every detail of agreements that are not the main agreement, is an additional one, which has too many levels and involve too many factors. I'm coming to Article 2. The adoption of the three draft framework agreements for the subsequent support of the aircraft Miraz 2000-5. That's where we had another class thing. The transnational agreement with France could not work. The companies from 2012 refused to continue. We have entered a procedure that should normally be guaranteed by the original contract. Here, as in the previous one, but above all here, this historical affinity of armaments and contracts arises. That is to say, we are buying a weapon system, but we are not getting the missiles together, for example, like Leopard. It is the well-known story that we set up a modern weapon, one of the most modern tanks and for many years - not to say exaggerated, but joking, I will say - the Greek Army had them as a playmobil, because they had no missiles! And not just that. You are starting an agreement now, to obtain aircraft, tanks, ships, anything, without maintenance, upgrading, subsequent support within the same contract, with the rules and conditions to bind the supplier or state with which we are making a contract. When the time comes, then, this weapon system is ageing, then our country has been, and is still in some cases, and it will be, for a time, in the forced commitment to start from the start of negotiation, where the construction company or state is in power. He's forcing us. Because what are we gonna do? We're gonna dump the planes, the ships, the tanks? We are obliged to do so and we are therefore at a disadvantage. That's not what happened at all. It didn't happen at all. Heavy for all these incredible conventions and armament insanity, in some cases, of uncontrolled and unregulated, we have been paying and will be paying for years. Now, should we say no? Apparently, it's not possible. The solution, therefore, even now that we have arrived for the subsequent support of the aircraft Mirage, is a positive development. We support it, and we are really moving on to it. For the Greek shipyards, what can one say? It is not the only contract of armaments or the contract on submarines that had all this scourge and the lack of protection of the public interest and the Armed Forces, but it is the most vague one, because it has come to the judicial investigation, with everything we know, both in Parliament and in regular justice, and the ministers at the time or some of the ministers who handled it are already in prison and have been convicted, even though the criminal offence for the contract itself has not been brought to bear, but then for other additional consequences. The spare parts, which are located in the warehouses of either the Scaramaga shipyard, in the control of the company SKARAMAGA, or in Kiel, in the control of 'THYSSENKRUPP', must at last be attributed to the Hellenic Navy and this compromise agreement, in terms I think it is realistic and beneficial, is doing so. We therefore support Article 3. Mr President, I do not want to abuse the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u154	However, I would remind the rapporteurs and speakers that they will have a few minutes' secondaryity, after the speaker's cycle has been completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u155	That's right. For military, long-term volunteers and professional soldiers, for the arrangements of civil servants of the National Defence and for the Hellenic Defence Systems, which are in part important arrangements, but are not the main points of this bill, you will allow me to refer to my dentistry, so that I do not ask you to make a distinction in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u156	As we said, before Mr Frangidis goes to Stepma, Mr Besiropoulos has the floor for three minutes, from his position, to present the second ministerial amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the proposed amendment number 126 and special 3, the examination of the objections referred to in Article 7 of Law 2308/1995 is suspended for the areas described in Decision 1151/1872 of the Athens Court of Appeal, in the decisions Nos 116/1868 and 698/1876 of the Court of Appeal of Nafplio and in the decision No 110/1878 of the Ice Bay and belonging to the municipalities of Laureate and Saronicos up to 304-2019. This provides a short, but reasonable time to investigate in depth and address the whole problem, which has arisen for the citizens of these regions since the submission of tens of thousands of objections, which challenged their property rights from the public. The proposed legislation prevents citizens from being charged with the costs of objecting to these objections, as well as the serious social disruption. Of course, regulation is a first step towards a definitive response to a chronic problem, which has arisen in the context of the real estate process, and which our Government has the political will to resolve, fairly, without jeopardising the rights of the parties involved. This regulation is obviously reasonable. I hope that all the political forces will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u158	Mr President, I have a question for Mr Vésiropoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u159	You have the floor for two minutes, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u160	Is that Mr. Stakoura's signature?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u161	Mr. Stavura and Mr. Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u162	Could you let us know a little more? There are questions. Let's understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u163	You ask the question, and if he can answer it, or we tell Mr. Stakoura to come and answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u164	Our question arises, Minister, from our inability to know the content of these decisions and the problems posed by ownership, which concerns too many citizens. We read that the cost of this postponement is around 92,000 euros. So we have an amendment which produces a cost, but which you say is nevertheless necessary to serve people, the people in charge here. We want you to tell us what the differences are and what has happened by April, so that this amendment can produce positive results, so that we know what we are going to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u165	Do you want to answer, Mr. Besyropoulou?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u166	Yes, Mr. President. There was a chronic problem. You see that the public-based decisions are the decisions of 1872, 1868 and 1876 on public property. Thus, "private" properties in areas of Attica of the Municipalities of Laureate and Saronicos are the subject of a public claim. Objections were made.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u167	Do these decisions have the contents of the State's ownership?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u168	Of course. We are now giving a suspension of the revenges, the objections made by the public to all these individuals, within four months, and within four months we give this reasonable time to give a definitive solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u169	Can I ask you something more?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u170	But now we're not going that way. When you are placed as a parliamentarian, say what you want, but when the time comes. I'm not going to stop the voicer's flow.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u171	One question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u172	Here, you have the floor. But it's the second one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u173	The second and the last. Is the four-month period to deal with one-on-one objections, exhaustingly, and to correct the administrative decisions? I would therefore ask whether this four-month period was given to enable the administration to respond to the objections or whether this four-month period is necessary for the administration to come on the government's legislative initiative. That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u174	Obviously so that the administration can come to give a definitive solution on a legislative initiative. The objections are tens of thousands and were being examined from Monday that passed us. We are ending this process with this amendment so that immediately after the next four months we can give a definitive solution by means of a legislative provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u175	The special speaker from the Change Movement, Mr George Francis, is now called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in a new geostrategic and geopolitical environment, that of the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean, in which our country is located and which is considered to be one of the most sensitive and unstable in the world, together with the financial situation that is testifying to our society, the Armed Forces of the country are invited to act. They are required to play a catalytic role and to participate decisively in ensuring the national integrity of the country and Hellenism in general. That is why we need, today, in the debate, wisdom and spirit of understanding and determination from all the political actors in the country to support and ensure our national sovereignty. We must all know, whether our friends in the European Union or NATO, but also our neighbour, that there is a red line, beyond which no action to undermine our national sovereignty is accepted. It is therefore necessary to maintain the integrity of the Armed Forces. The Change Movement supports: First, the improvement of the combat capacity and efficiency of the Armed Forces, through the modernisation of F-16 aircraft and the support of MIRAGE 2000-5 and the maintenance of the combat capacity of the submarines. Secondly, it supports the spiritual potential of the Armed Forces, which is the multiplier of the Armed Forces' power, but in the light of a holistic approach to its issues, in a spirit of law and hierarchy of needs, to better meet the operational requirements of the Armed Forces. Thirdly, it supports the domestic defence industry for the development of the national economy. Our position is well known, as is the case with the other parties, for the national understanding and the armouring of the country, through the improvement of the combat capacity of the Armed Forces. It is therefore necessary and aiming at a definitive settlement of the outstandingities which exist in important programmes of the Armed Forces. We are not allowed to have a personal view of these issues. The need for the country's defensive shielding does not justify impurities, tactics, gray zones or even regression. Unfortunately, this draft law by the Ministry of National Defence does not strengthen the existing principles and rules of common purpose, in the interests of the citizens of the country, in the interests of the many. It does not prevent any phenomena of non-good management of the Greek people's money. Over the last few days we have been trying to understand the obvious data, but also those that may be concealed by Article 1 of that draft law on the upgrading of F-16 aircraft. It is true that the specific decision of the CSCE, with the suggestion of the then Minister of State, Mr Kammenos, in May 2017, on the process of implementing the modernisation work, leads us to think that, through this work necessary for our national defence and security, private interests might have been sought. How else can it be explained that, instead of promoting a transnational agreement, the process of altering an old contract was chosen, although we were able and in the interest of calling for sub-construction and other refunds? What was the purpose of selecting a procedure? Unfortunately, it does not oblige, but serves better ‘LOCKHEED MARTIN’, to offer compensatory benefits and programs, and to involve the private company, which is also a consultant and representative of ‘LOCKHEED MARTIN’, for compensation schemes and which the owner has been publicly accused of being a friend of Mr. Kammens. Evidently, Mr. Tsipras at his meeting in May 2017, your president, who was, did not understand anything. But he realized it later. This explains his complaint against the compensatory benefits in Parliament on 27 October 2017. This draft law comes to confirm the joint action line of the previous SYRIZA Government - ANEL with the New Democracy's current support for issues such as the compensatory benefits programmes from the cooperation with the company ‘LOCKHEED MARTIN’ for the upgrading of F-16 aircraft, but which do not call compensatory benefits. Secondly, the lack of overall response to the major problems of the Armed Forces, which concern the redesign of their organisational structure, their increased flexibility, the rational and fair treatment of all personnel, the establishment of procedures for the implementation of armaments programmes, their participation in the upgrading of the domestic defence industry with a view to its autonomy. It is strange that the Government of New Democracy supports the proposal to reintroduce the question of accepting the implementation of compensatory benefits programmes, which have been repealed by a 2011 PASOK Government Act. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government, like the New Democracy, considered compensatory benefits programmes to be a way of corruption, as private entrepreneurs benefit. From the information we have, the Ministry of National Defence negotiates with two different companies of the LOCKHEED MARTIN, Lockheed Martin Overseas Llc on compensatory programmes and Lockheed Martin Global if the programs are considered as security, supply and information programmes, so-called SSI. We don't understand why two companies? Is there any feasibility? Where's the head office of these companies? Secondly, Lockheed Martin Overseas Llc and LM GLOBAL also participated in the discussions of the Ministry, Greek interests that the owner of the company has publicly been accused of as a friend of Mr. Kammenos. How does ‘EFA’ relate to ‘LOCKHEED MARTIN’? Obviously the Greek State will be called and charged with the remuneration of this company. So the myth is not involved in the transnational agreements. How can objectivity be ensured in the structure of its proposal ‘LOCKHEED MARTIN’ in the programmes, the reasonableness of their actual value, etc., when the process involves a private company, which, in addition, its owner via other companies possibly also claims part of the benefits programmes? Fourthly, it appears that 'LOCHEED MARTIN' has imposed a number of amendments to the programmes. He increased the sub-construction programs from five to six, adding a sub-construction project of 16 million dollars so that the total real value would rise from 185 million to 201 million and the credit from 430 million to 462 million dollars. At the same time, it differentiated the benefits proposals by leaving three real-value programmes worth some $48.5 million, i.e. without an implementing body. Obviously this is to have fun with the reactions of MPs, both of the New Democracy and of SYRIZA, when on January 9, 2019 in Parliament they reported names about which private businessman is going to take over most of these 48 million dollars. So two questions arise: First, is the company 'LOCKHEED MARTIN' galvanized, since without negotiations the sub-committee is increasing by $10 million, or if negotiations were to take place, would we have a better outcome? Secondly, how will the orphan programmes, i.e. programmes without an implementing body, be awarded, by what procedure and by what regulatory framework? We in the Change Movement say that this is why the House has to decide. It is also apparent from the letter from the Directorate-General for Defence Equipment and Investment of the Directorate-General for Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs set up a negotiating committee for compensatory benefits, as the ‘LOCHEED MARTIN’ has made such a bid. The Committee was required to negotiate the type of projects offered, whether the actual value was indeed true and the rates set by the ‘LOCKHEED MARTIN’ to calculate the credit values. It should be recalled that, on the basis of the credit values, ‘LOCKHEED MARTIN’ will pay off its compensatory obligations. The Committee did not, however, hold any negotiations, but meetings and produced practical meetings of the programmes. Therefore, our view is confirmed that there were no negotiations. It is also a question of changing the name of the programmes offered and instead of compensatory measures, being considered as security, supply and information programmes, i.e. SSIs. Does a new question arise immediately: will these programmes ultimately be considered as being in favour of 'LOCKHEED MARTIN', and will its existing compensatory obligations be reduced? The Committee also notes that the regulatory framework for SSI programmes does not exist and should be provided for. In fact, the Committee notes that ‘LOCKHEED MARTIN’ will submit drafts for regulatory framework and amending the Compensatory Benefits Convention. It points out that there is no possibility of examining the preliminary drafts of SSI and of amending the compensation contracts — that is to say, the committee set up to negotiate its 'LOCKHEED MARTIN' proposal for compensatory benefits did not negotiate — while for SSI programmes it notes that there is a lack of regulatory framework and stresses that it is not able to examine the relevant proposals of 'LOCKHEED MARTIN'. However, we are here today to adopt with Article 1 SSI programmes for which the regulatory framework will be later. What is the result, ladies and gentlemen, of this? SYRIZA was involved in the plans of Kammenos and approved a contract with compensatory benefits and participation of private representatives. And the New Democracy, instead of correcting the situation, has further involved it. So we are now in a difficult position and with commitments that we cannot overcome. Because the primary and on the basis of the juncture is the start of the modernisation of F-16 and Mirage 2005 and the support of the ODA to respond. By voting in favour of modernisation, however, we are calling for a commitment from the Minister of National Defence that the SSI programme regulatory framework should come to Parliament as quickly as possible. Secondly, the draft amending the compensation agreement should also come to Parliament for approval. Thirdly, the procedure for the award of orphan programmes - that is, those which do not have a body to implement - of the $48.5 million in competition with a transparent procedure, under the control of the Directorate-General for Defence Equipment and Investment. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Fourthly, the government must commit itself to providing all the necessary resources and resources needed by ODA to meet its tasks. That is a decisive point. Because the reports of the management and association of workers in the committee have shown that there are serious problems. In addition to this, in this draft law, the Government has mixed up the minor issues of major importance. With regard to Article 4, we agree that there is a need to cover the exceptional financial needs of military hospitals and, in particular, NIMITS because of non-contractual contracts and supplies. You know, however, that non-contractual contracts and supplies are the ones that magnify waste and those that are not controlled and therefore there are dark sides. However, the supplies of hospitals should be made for this reason by means of open competitions and non-contractual supplies limited to the minimum, which must of course always be accompanied by a market investigation. The Ministry must be activated in this direction. In Articles 5 and 6, although their provisions are deemed to be extremely important as they address serious issues of the personnel of the Armed Forces, the Ministry is dealing with these matters in an unfair and fragmentary manner, thereby contributing to the further elevation of the morality of the military personnel. Thus, career issues, like others, which are not directly related to the arrangements under consultation require a deep study and processing and need to be assessed at a future overall legislative initiative. Provisions may not be promoted on a case-by-case basis to regulate fragmentary problems of specific staff groups. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Minister, through relevant articles you are dealing with serious issues of the Armed Forces in a way that does not strengthen the equal treatment of officials of the Armed Forces. The SYRIZA - ANEL government did so and you go on with it. How, then, can we rely on the merits of the Armed Forces when personnel are not dealt with on specific, objective, transparent and fair criteria based on each other's contribution to the work of the Armed Forces? Your Member, Minister, must be the examination of the needs of the staff as a whole, military and political, at collective and individual level. You are required to examine and draw up a study, which will examine all categories of staff in a transparent and objective manner. We must finally resolve time-consuming problems and serious national issues of vital importance for the Armed Forces' spiritual potential in the light of objectivity, justice, a single authority, exploitation, evaluation, reward and reward to really support the Armed Forces in the light of their worthy executives who can make a difference. With regard to Article 7, it is important for the Government to avoid tabling legislation by using a copy paste of earlier regulations. The sale of land on the Hellenic Defence Systems used as an argument for Article 7 has already been made since 2017. In 2013, the NCA resolution plan, which seems to have been forgotten, was passed. If we want to have NSAs on a sustainable basis, we cannot operate on time extensions. The Armed Forces, as a key pillar of stability with the lifeless, but also the spiritual potential are required in the context of defence and security to be ready for all kinds of action to ensure the territorial integrity of our country. By giving the Armed Forces the required added value, we strengthen peace and stability in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece Mr Papanastassis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr President. Today the Communist Party of Greece will present its position on the important, controversial and time-consuming arms issue. This is an issue, which refers to its general position on the necessary conditions for the creation of a safe living, working environment, progress for workers, youth, pensioners, people in general. We will do this with all the sense of responsibility, addressing all of them using this step. At the same time, we will respond to our duty to speak with clarity and honesty. We feel that we have the right and the obligation to take this stand, because our country historically and under the responsibility of its governments is experiencing the almost lasting question of its right to perpetuate its fates. Nowadays, the policy that embraces the doctrine that if Greece is the good boy of NATO, the United States, the European Union, it will supposedly protect its sovereign rights has been fully proven and historically bankrupt. And this bankrupt doctrine embraces all the political urban parties. You're all surely smuggling it with ratings, but you're committed and embedded in it. So won is our people from your alliances, so security and security provide NATO and the agreements with the US, which you have all reached the point of putting the dilemma to him one way or another, 'participation and retreat with Turkey or conflict and finally military engagement'. It is the geopolitical stadium that is being shaped - and you are forming - gradually on the occasion of the unacceptable agreement between Turkey and Libya. Except that this phony is just as dangerous for the present and future of our people, for the country's sovereign rights, for peace. Because in the area of the Eastern Mediterranean and the Aegean there are important and rich deposits of hydrocarbons, mainly natural gas. These deposits are controlled by the Greek bourgeoisie and the Turkish bourgeoisie, like the other states in the region, but great powers such as the United States, France, Great Britain, Italy, Germany, Russia, China. With regard to the draft law under discussion, the upgrading of weapon systems, the supply of young people, the arrangements for staff or infrastructure to be effective, it is necessary to be part of the service of a more general plan. The position adopted by successive governments, and today, is that the Armed Forces deal not only with national defence, but also with foreign security, and above all with it. Foreign security, however, in your formal opinion, has to face new challenges and new threats at global, regional and national level. That is why we are not only talking about national defence policy, but about defence and security policy, as'security' is interpreted in the texts of the European Union's common defence and security policy, as institutionalised by the Treaty of Lisbon, as security is perceived in the context of NATO's new strategic doctrine. And we ask: What does this have to do with defending our borders, our sovereign rights? The answer is none. Here too, a question will be raised, and if you want it, it is reflected in the core of the development of our thinking. In order to support these commitments by the Greek governments, which I repeat, or not to be absolute, they have little to do with the so-called 'national defence', the question we ask is: What kind of armed forces do we want? Ladies and gentlemen, in answer to this question, we are not chewing our words. We claim that the country's defensive capacity is guaranteed by our people, by Armed Forces that will not be part of NATO. It is ensured by fighting and blood and sacrifices of the people. It is fully linked to the struggle for popular prosperity, to profound changes in the level of power. Today, among other things, the decision to upgrade F-16 will also be taken. Our people will bleed for its implementation. The speakers so far are already operating on her necessity. Spontaneously listening to them come to our minds the texts translated in the completed report of the American Ministry of Foreign Affairs for Greece, which was adopted in August 2018 by the State Department and released for public disclosure on the US side about a year ago, that is, it is recent. For example, in the State Department report there is talk - look out! - to encourage Greece's active participation in strengthening regional and global security for the protection of the American country and its interests. In this revealing report, too, there is talk of the targeting of the American Embassy in Greece, which is to form a new generation of leaders, friends who are approaching the United States and the values that the latter embassies. Is that the reason why Ambassador Piat roams from a military school and from a university? I am making a simple mention of this, because if we stand on this target of the American Embassy, my position will definitely be exaggerated. These are the data that haunt the necessity, always in your view, of implementing a huge armaments programme. But beyond that, you should answer, not to us, but to the people who finance it, how much the extra systems for interconnecting these weapons systems, for example, F-16 with the other NATO weapons systems, such as the F-35 - which we do not have, and it is doubtful whether we will have them, because this is what is stated - as long as the F-16 is to remain operational. The burden is enormous and this is only to enable NATO's operational plans to be served where land is located - but not in the Aegean Sea, or to quantify little in the Aegean, by means of standardisation - all this is paid for with the sweat of Greek workers. Also, answer us: In upgraded aircraft, the US government maintains through the company "LOCKHEED MARTIN" the technological potential of inadvertently altering flight data operator. Yes or no? This is because if tomorrow's US geostrategic choices have other priorities than Greece, do these F-16 starting from the Aegean Sea find themselves in Rome or elsewhere? Ladies and gentlemen, the Communist Party of Greece once again states that there must be no further retreat to Greece's sovereign rights. In this unresolved position, including our position as mentioned above for the Armed Forces, we want to state fully that we are not advocating the upgrading of the F-16. Now, I'm coming to the other articles. For Article 2, which concerns the continuation of the aircraft maintenance programme of Mirage as a follow-up to the existing maintenance programme, we shall vote'residents' as well as to Article 3 concerning the agreement on the dispute settlement between the Hellenic Republic, Thyssenkrupp Marine Systems and the public limited company 'ELLINIKA NYPHIA S.A.'. With regard to Article 4, which concerns the reimbursement of the costs of the Military Hospital of the Equity Army, which is also called NIMITS, we shall make an appeal to the proposals provided for in the article in question. But, by the way, we will say that the situation in military hospitals is not different from the policies involved. It could not be otherwise, because the tragic effects on public health of sub-financing by gradually privatising the rest of the area, despite the fact that they are actually military units. For example, the debts of the insurance funds to the 401 General Military Hospital of Athens just a year ago for the provision of hospital services to civilian personnel amounted to about - little less - 41,000 euros, with around 95% of this being the debts of EEAY. We are not aware of the payment of this debt today and I cannot talk about it. Also, there are many problems with staffing, due to the limited number of graduates from the Military College of Officials in Medical Specialties. We also recognise and honor the superhuman efforts of medical and nursing staff to cope with these situations. With regard to Article 5, which deals with career issues, we will agree. It was the article that also enabled the masks to fall on the attitude of almost all parties to trade in the Armed Forces. Don't get upset. Your power will not be compromised by the military trade unionists. You have ironed them, possessed them, deceived them, mostly from the government's side. I will not comment on the positions of the Greek Solution - Kyriakos Velopoulos. We had submitted our opinion when we commented on the Golden Dawn program. In almost all the members of the European Union, the union in their Armed Forces has been in place for years. No, of course, because in these countries they perceive collective representation as a healthy, popular, reliant process, but because they want to manipulate it. You, ladies and gentlemen of the government, do not agree to do that either. You're on the right track! As far as Article 6 is concerned, we do not agree with the provision of participation in the process of transferring the assent of the relevant service councils and voting'represent'. We agree with Article 7 on the provision of proof of tax and insurance information and certificates of real estate tax and uniform property tax in the public limited company Hellenic Defence Systems, the well-known NSA. In conclusion, it is clear that the Greek people have a united block of forces, which now serves with passion and stability the policy of the great capital of the European Union, NATO. Urban governments are condemning education, health, social services, constantly cutting government funding, but they give EUR 4 billion over the year, i.e. over 2% of GDP for equipment, especially for naval needs. The reality breaks the allegations of system apologies, which puts on the agenda the need to strengthen the struggle so that the vicious circle between peace and the pistol on the sides of the peoples, the imperialist peace and the imperialist war will break. Where people were found under the flag of their exploiters, they experienced great tragedies. And it is particularly important that the call for the Communist Party is called. The working class and its allies to believe in their strength and to draw their own way to their own power, to become the people master of the wealth they produce, outside the wolves of the European Union and NATO, in a society without poverty, without unemployment, without crises and wars.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr Papapastasis, especially for keeping time. Mr. Antonis Mylonakis, a special speaker from the Greek Solution, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u180	Mr President, may I take the floor before Mr Mylonakis to table the legislative improvements so that the parties can take them? I'll only need thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u181	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u182	Mr. Mylonakis, with your permission, for the parties to be served and for the legislature to be processed, I declare that we have seven legislative improvements. I would therefore ask that they be shared to process them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u183	Here, Mr. Mylonakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many times he wants a man to sanctify and we do not leave him. I'm telling you. And because he knows how much I appreciate him as a politician, I'm going to tell him this, because something said to me in private the other day: Mr. Paphie, I'm telling you I heard my favorite Mr. Papastasis, friend and classmate, and I didn't understand anything. What's the JRC doing? Does he support or does he not support? Does the F-16 want to be made in ODA or does it not want to, but does the ODA have to work with workers to pay the workers? I don't understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u185	The problem is F-16, not where they're going to be built.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u186	The problem, my Nico, is the F-16. Then how will the company work? What's it gonna work with? Are we gonna go over there and fix cars? Let's figure out what's going on. Because we can't say something and nobody knows it except you. See, Mr. Paphie? It's not my fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u187	You'll hear them. Do what you don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u188	Yeah, yeah. You know very well that I understand everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u189	Mr. Mylonakis, don't have a dialogue. You should address to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u190	Something else, Minister. You won't let us sanctify. What amendments are these now? Continuing amendments. Now they have brought me an amendment to a volume, which he says? National coordinator. I took a look at her and went crazy. So, we're abandoning the State Secretary for Defense, General Alkiviadi Stefani? Would you let him leave the ministry at a time when you need him, because he knows things - if we want to build the defence industry, do something - and put him under the Prime Minister national coordinator? Well, where's Mr. Kumucascus? And not only that, but this is where you're bringing us something else. You bring us a Single Border Surveillance Body, which will be funded - a glimpse of it - I have worked out our own services - largely part of the state budget and will get people - take note of them, because obviously no one here knows them, because now as soon as they come from the Ministry of Defence, that is, officers and soldiers, officials of the Armed Forces, police officers and staff of the Navy. I ask: why is there no national coordinator outside the Ministry of Defence? The State Secretary for Defence has a terrible job to do. You want him next door and you let him leave you unless you put another State Secretary for Defense and you do two. Secondly, we are financing a new single body, which will take officials from the Ministry of Defence. What's the point? Aren't there any border guards for this job? We've told you. That's why you're all watching what the Greek solution says and what the Greek solution suggests and you wait to talk, because logic speaks. Do you know what happened the other day? Minister, I think you know that. You can see it. I'm showing it here. This is the first time that this has happened, gentlemen. UAV unmanned, equipped against helicopters. You obviously don't know what that means. Ask me for many years of piloting helicopters, with thousands of hours of flight in the Aegean. A helicopter of the Navy was suddenly blocked and threatened directly, Mr. Minister, by two unmanned, in international waters. I know you know that. Isn't that right? You know that. Sure. What does that mean? And I say that to understand the training the Turks have in unmanned. They have an eighty-seven unmanned, fully equipped at the moment against our zero. The unmanned, then, followed from two and a half thousand feet to the sea’s surface height. Do you know what that means? And he got up and left the helicopter, the SI HOC. That's the truth. That's why we're talking about a defensive industry. International Law and Law of the Sea, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Even in the last village each one deals with international law. He is now aware of the words 'International Law and Law of the Sea'. International law and the law of the sea are the law of the mighty. Are you strong? You're doing diplomacy. Aren't you strong? You're not a diplomat. So, because lately and after the Turkish- Libyan agreement on the Exclusive Economic Zone and following the threats of the Turkish Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence, who says: 'We will start dredging and we will start drilling west Crete', we beg and beg to get a statement condemning this agreement between Turkey and Libya, bring the President of the Libyan Parliament, who - I and the other speakers and President Kyriakos Velopoulos - is about to Haftar. We had Huffar and we kicked him so far, and now we're trying to be with him. So take yesterday's UN declaration, 'Find out for yourself', to understand what we should do. It is unbelievable and yet the phenomenon of Greek, ladies and gentlemen. Criminal policies have been implemented in the Armed Forces over the last ten, mainly, years, by the decisions of the troika and all those criminals who banned us from using the funds we had to use for the Ministry of Defence and we have now come to say 'yes' to all'. We all say 'yes'. "What's the donkey doing?" 'Flying', we'll all be saying now, because now the milk has been tightened. Next week, ladies and gentlemen, I will inform you that new equipment is coming again with spare parts. I don't understand, we haven't been able to plan the spare parts flow for so long? Don't we know when the torpedoes end?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u191	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u192	Yeah, I know. You're right. You're right, Mr. Kegeroglu. I know. Not just SYRIZA. They're the previous ones, they're the governments of cooperation. Since 2010, it was not only SYRIZA in power. It was the PASOK, the current movement of change, Elia, the Democratic Association, was the New Democracy. We all succeeded together and destroyed our defence industry. LV, ELVO and YOUR right now are damaged. Now let's start with the F-16 program. How many years ago should - and I ask you simply - the Greek Parliament, the Ministry of Defence and the Prime Ministers, who knew them very well, have planned the upgrading of the F-16? How many years ago should we have done it? Do we have to do it right now or should we have done it five, six, seven years ago? Because, you know, eighty-four F-16 aren't modernising. Because we're not talking about upgrading. Essentially some things will be put on top - I do not now want to analyse them - to minimize the distance from Stealth. You know what, though? When we say that an aircraft is coming in, it's going to be completely dissolved inside the ODA -- be careful what I'm saying to you -- we have three pieces. We have the structural part, so it means we solve the aircraft and we see its components, we have its electronic systems, so thousands of cables - believe me - and now we have its weapon systems. I ask: did we have to get to 'approximately five'? You know, gentlemen, that to start the ODA shed, so it can work, do we need enough time? Do you know that we want to get four hundred experienced craftsmen, who left and found jobs elsewhere, abroad? I know people who have been working for years in ODA, Minister, and they've gone and worked in other companies. How are we going to replace them? In fact, we'll replace them. You know what? With new craftsmen, they have to be trained for a year, Minister. Do you agree? Yes, sir. As far as I am concerned, you will say 'yes', because this is not the case, we can all go crazy here together. And when are we going to start? After a year. And we're gonna put in how many aircraft? Twelve aircraft. First, make the roof not to enter water, the last shed of thirty - seven acres of EAB. We should hang those who were there and watch the waters come in a year now. And they had been warned by the Americans' technical step and we didn't - it says - 3 million euros. That's too much! Didn't you have 3 million euros to close the roof? And wait for the rain winter, close the roof! "Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, All "yes"! But what's going on here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u193	We'll do it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u194	Yeah, you'll do it all. But it has to be done now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u195	When we do it, what are you gonna say?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u196	But if you do, we'll applaud. The question is when these will end. We need eight to ten years. Do you understand? These things can't be easy. What's the plane? Car to change a screw to him? Let's go to Mirage now. In 2012, the flow of spare parts ended. Shouldn't we have two years before planning what to do when the flow is over, continue to flow the spare parts? I'm just asking. Shouldn't you? I had to. What did the governments do? 'Leave it for the next.' And be careful to see the smart one: they went and grabbed the companies. Three are the companies. Can I say there's a lot of them? Can I just say there are competitions going on? Slowly, since they were three specific, ‘THALES’, ‘SAFRAN’, ‘DASSAULT’. But come on, let's go where these three companies, to come and send the spare parts, have to be ordered from the French Government. Didn't anyone get it? Since that's the process. How did it happen now? He spoke with the French Government, gave the French Government 'ok' and the construction companies come and say 'How much money do you want?' "What spare parts are these?"? 'These, they and them, EUR 260 million'. In fact, in time it is EUR 40 million per year. So, did we have to wait for it to be eight years, for the flow of spare parts to be stuck at 80%, and because we raised a Mirage in the Aegean, we all to applaud together? And you know very well that it is the strongest aircraft for the Aegean airspace at low altitudes and low speeds. But that's why we haven't made it for years now, so the Turks won't be trained. We say we have the best pilots. Yeah, we got the best pilots. The training of our pilots costs 100 million dollars a year. You know that. "It costs 100 million dollars a year? Mylonakis, slow down." Yeah, because that's how much fuel and aircraft damage are costing when they get up and intercept and interfere in the airspace when the Turks get in. So, 100 million euros a year cost this. Shouldn't we have the Mirages ready? And we get to the point where we're wondering, why now? Now! 'Cause now is the time, the knot has come to the comb, and it has to-- he says-- we have to do something right away. I move on to the subject of the former HDV - 'THYSSENGROUP' with submarines. This is a matter which I think was partly solved by Mr Venizelos in 2010. He had it brought to the House. You remember that, Mr. President. You had brought it and it had been voted on. They've been given well, but where are the spare parts? We never got them back to arbitration, go back to the beginning. And now we're getting away with it - it says - 20 to 30 million euros. That's not the point. Is the point that ‘ARTICLE’ and ‘POINT II’ are being implemented? Did we make the submarine "OCEANOS"? Has the programme been implemented to upgrade submarine type 209? Oh, no. Now we're waiting for everything. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] We have some other issues that I will talk about at once. Military hospitals: 270m euros! Yeah, military hospitals have to work and work. It is one of the best hospitals and military doctors - we know that very well - it is one of the best doctors. We all appreciate them. They set back all the military hospitals during the crisis, and the doctors went to the border. They took our little islands in whack and turned around. And dentists, etc. Should we not pay these for the services they offer? How are they going to take medication? How will they get consumables? It now comes and owes to military hospitals, about EUR 44 million, at NIMITS, EUR 9.5 million, to '424', and approximately EUR 30 million. The total in one year is 270 million. Why create these debts? Don't insurance agencies have the money? Doesn't EEAY have the money? How am I gonna get well, Mylonakis, without being military? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Military hospitals don't only serve military service. They serve the entire Greek people. Shouldn't we always have them ready to fight? Let's not forget that in the war they'll have to go out first. Now the whole world 'yes' will say in everything. "Is the donkey flying?" 'Flying'. We won't see anything. You'll see next week, 580m euros are coming. Wait. Let's go to article 7 for the NSA, another painful story. They cannot function because they do not have insurance and tax information. How will they get money? They don't get any money. I.D.'s coming. He's diving the money. Yes, sir. It says the state, 'you owe them'. So, are we shutting down the NSAs? No, we've been forced for forty-two months and we're giving insurance and tax information. 'Yes' we'll tell that too. We will see the amendments in my second language, because here you are not in a hurry, not to read, but not to look at them. It's like saithes flying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u197	The reason is the Special Rapporteur of Mera25, Mr. Sakorafa.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u198	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to begin with the issue of armaments and a really critical observation. In this country, since post-population, we have paid the total cost of our equipment to the construction companies with the sweat and blood of the Greek people. I repeat, we've really paid for it. We should therefore at some point ask ourselves what the results of the policy, which we have been pursuing over time in the field of armaments. And to have a comparison, what is our position and perspective today in relation to our hostile neighbour? It is a given that the arms trade is directly linked to the policies of the alliances. Almost half of our imports, all of our weapons systems since 1974, have been made by the United States of America. So we're their consistent clients. Let us ask ourselves whether it is their opposition to allied support to our problems at times, such as those which recently emerge with the neighbouring country. Have we acquired - and after all these years a consistent customer relationship in armaments with the United States - and a similar sense of security? I believe that the inviolable answer is 'no'. This is an example that Germany offers to us. Despite its traditional and historical relationship with Turkey, it accounts for 11.8% of German exports and 9.65% of Greece. And here we are loyal customers without the corresponding reflection. It's a bitter truth, but it's undeniable. The inside or off-importing allies only look at their interests, because they consider us given. Since the post-population process, we have been armingly turning to the same countries. Unfortunately, our dependence on imports is growing. According to the most valid scientific data on imports of weapon systems from 1974 to 2018, Greece is in the 12th place in the world. We, a state with a clear defensive orientation, are above and above Israel, a state of aggressive orientation, a state which has fought wars with all its neighbours and is now turning against its citizens, one in five who are Palestinians. It is morbid that we have no sense of security comparable to the coup d'état of money spent on the import of weapons systems. And it is also morbid that we have criminal convictions of arms supplies-related offences. Indeed, in our society it is a dispersed view that we should have much more. We must not forget that 'equipment' does not only mean imports, or, rather, that is not all. What's going on with our industries? Where is the Greek Defence Industry today located with high know-how in state-of-the-art technologies? Instead of developing accordingly through the compensatory measures, it is at an unacceptable point of depreciation. From the Association of Workers in Greek Air Industry, it reported a 40% reduction in its staff and a design for a total of nine hundred and ninety employees up to 2023. However, we heard from the government yesterday in committee for the purpose of hiring three hundred plus a hundred techniques. Finally, does the Government commit to implementing the recruitment plan for nine hundred and ninety workers by 2023, or are there already cuts in them? We have also heard that the poor use of know-how and infrastructure is due to incomplete forecasts of the corresponding programmes following support. This has also been identified in the work of the committee. Obviously, and we must not be satisfied with the implementation agreements that we have signed for Mirage. I am referring in particular to the lack of anticipation of the original agreement on subsequent support, the fact that the flow of spare parts has ceased since 2012, which should have been foreseen and measures taken before 2012. We should not, in other words, have allowed these seven years to pass without the expected materials. Not to arrive now, in 2019, to regulate a matter that should have been settled at least seven years earlier. This is also the problem of delays for F-16 after the failed attempt this year in January. He followed a semester of inertia. We don't know what happened. What actions have been taken? Other delays have taken place since July, in order for work to be done today to seal the portrait of the Greek Air Industry. In the F-16 regulatory framework, an integrated and sustainable solution has not been ensured in the implementing contracts. ‘LOCKHEED MARTIN’ was not required to provide all know-how and factory information to the industry in the country for its involvement and for the construction of all systems. Obviously we had to adopt the regulatory framework first and then move on to the draft law. So today, with an urgent need to meet the needs of the Armed Forces, we need to propose the adoption of the bill. Another crucial issue is that of the so-called 'private', in accordance with Article 346 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This is to protect the domestic defence industry from Union competition rules in order to protect the essential security interests of the Member State. Of course, let's not forget that this privilege also had the "HDV". So this privilege was found in the German company. Greek company, ladies and gentlemen, has lost this privilege to get a German. And German companies were found to manage and gain from the privilege of our defence industry. For all the above reasons, which indicate how deficit our arms policy is over time, we have said that we will vote'residents' at the beginning of this bill. Let us now come to the rest of the provisions. With the proposed provisions of Article 3, an end shall be given to cases in which the time-limits have expired. Article 4 concerns military hospitals and a problem which, because of the crisis, has become more acute, especially because of the debts created in the EEA, which have been accumulated and we are now talking about some 200 million debts. In any case, a solution should be given. And this solution should be final. With the proposed regulations in Article 5, rationalisation takes place in the legal framework, so that there is a uniform approach. For the purpose of regulating Article 6(1), I also stressed to the committee our responsibility for a person with his or her participation in another collective body for selecting heads. Under Article 6(2), the arrangements made for officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall be in a positive direction. With regard to the proposals referred to in Article 7 for the Hellenic Defence Systems, we understand that this is how the hands of the company are temporarily solved and, above all, you allow the workers to be paid without, of course, solving the problem of the Hellenic Defence Systems. Finally, I would like to focus on a matter of principle. This is about legal regularity, which after five months of governance is not followed. The Government hypothetically laid rules for the good legislature in the law on the final state. Public consultation, however, seems to be limited to ministerial offices. The procedures provided for in Article 61 of the Final State Act, which you have voted on, are not respected by you either. This is also relevant to this, but also to the previous bills you have submitted. To close and aware of the urgency and necessity, we will be positive in the articles, with all the reservations we have expressed, most of all, regarding the absence of long-term national planning as we have stressed in the committee. We are, above all, sceptical because there is no guarantee that the situation that we described will improve. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mrs Sakorafa, especially for the time she has held. Before giving the floor to the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, I will give the floor for a moment to the former President of Parliament and for three minutes to the Minister to develop an amendment. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u200	Mr President, I was really amazed to see that you shared a major legislative arrangement, which is called'model', which creates the status quo of the national coordinator for the country's borders with the Prime Minister. It's kind of photographic - and that's right - as far as I'm concerned about this for the current State Secretary of Defence. However, a whole particular structure is also created - beyond the existing structures of the General Staff of the National Defence - to guard the country's maritime and land borders. Mr Dritsas and Mr Vitsas on three committees, which were held to discuss today's bill, asked the Ministers responsible if any other amendment would be made to the subject of the Ministry of National Defence, let alone a regulation, which requires discussion, analysis and clarification, and cannot stand, in that it is possible to pass it shortly before the budget, as if it were no deadline for medical payments. It is a particular issue which is another policy on national defence issues, which obviously needs a thorough discussion and time under the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. I consider it totally unacceptable as an energy, which is signed by all the members of the Ministerial Council at the last minute and with the tomacle of breaking that there can be no other day of Parliament's legislative work, not even next Thursday and Friday. Because at the Conference of Presidents we had a special debate on these things. Once the budget is submitted, any bill containing expenditure cannot come because the expenditure with the codes has been closed. It's unbelievable! I do ask you, President-in-Office, from the Bureau and from the ministers, first of all, from the government, who I am sure have a sensitivity in view of the issue that will arise, to withdraw the whole of this amendment immediately. Nothing else I have to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u201	Mr President, we will listen to the Minister, Mr Stefani, and you can come back. Mr President, before I give you the floor, I would like to give the floor for a few minutes to Mr Economou, the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, to develop Amendment No 125, and Amendment No 2, from 12-12-2019, to extend the revision of the specific programmes. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr President. We have tabled an amendment, which concerns the following: there are old general town planning plans which conflict with previous, legally existing activities. A deadline had been given by the end of 2019 to amend these old general urban plans to deal with these cases. That would be right. For several reasons which are not currently the case, most of these general urban plans have not yet been amended. They're in the process and they're not done. In the last five years, little of this is over. And before the last five years, there were still very few of them. What we are doing is giving an extension by 3 September 2020 to complete these general urban plans, so as not to create a gap with their termination today. We have already evaluated the general urban plans that are in the process of approval and we identify the points to which they are stuck. Sometimes, it's the Ministry's fault. Sometimes it's the municipalities' fault. Sometimes it's the decentralized ones. We're making moves so they're done by September 3rd. September 3 was chosen because by a Presidential Decree of 2018 it has been foreseen that the old general town planning plans with the old process, that is, the one that already follows, must be completed by then. This procedure shall not continue after 3 September 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Velopoulou, I'd like your understanding a little bit. We will give Mr Stefan the floor to develop the amendment. Then you'll have a more general picture. You will also be able to reply to the amendments. That makes sense, in view of the intervention of the President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u204	It is a good thing, Mr President, that they should be withdrawn. The government is being exposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u205	We'll see what happens next. Mr. Stefani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u207	Mr Minister, will you answer the President alone, or will you also develop the amendment? I'm asking you to calculate the time I'm going to give you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u208	I would like to develop my amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u209	Good. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u210	Thank you. I would like to inform you of the amendment with a general number of 127 and a specialist 4, tabled today in the draft law under discussion by the Ministry of National Defence. Following the Government's communications on 20 November 2019 on the operational plan to address the migration, refugee issue, the next step was to create the framework that would support that plan. With this amendment, seven articles put in place the framework in which all the co-legislators under the national coordinator can operate, in order to institutionally, coordinatedly and directly to implement the plan and overcome any difficulties and obstacles to achieving the desired result, which is no more than the reduction of migration flows and the control and management of migrants and refugees, who are already in our country. In particular, the first article establishes a position of national coordinator for the management and treatment of migration, refugee issues, with a view to the best coordination of competent bodies in dealing with the problems arising from the arrival of migration flows. Entrusting the coordination work to a person seeks to uninterrupted matters relating to the migration, refugee issue, to avoid time delays and to remove obstacles to the work of the involved actors in view of the urgent national need for rationalisation and addressing this problem. Articles 2 to 6 constitute a new Border Surveillance Body with the task of carrying out coordinated checks and surveillance of the land and sea borders of the Greek territory using trained staff and means under the single administration and without prejudice to the responsibilities of other services. The need for the entity to be set up becomes uncertain, taking into account the urgent reasons for national security, public order and the general public interest in response to the immigration, refugee crisis. Finally, Article 7, taking into account imperative grounds of national security and public policy, which specifically justify the unforeseen expansion of migrants, refugee flows, allows the public in public services, enterprises and public utility organisations to assign part or all of the supplies of works and leases services required to address the problems arising from the increase in migration, refugee flows in the process of negotiation without publication of a notice of invitation to tender, irrespective of the amount of the contract. Those public contracts are defined in time to cover only the period for which there is an urgent need to conclude, i.e. the winter period 2019-2020 with a maximum time point on 30 June 2010, I would like to close with the following: Responsibility must also have the appropriate tools to serve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u211	He didn't answer. On a point of order...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u212	Wait a minute, Mr. Dritsa. I have an announcement to make. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-one students and students and two educational attendants from the High School of Lejanes Ilias (first Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We shall then return to the amendments. The President of the Greek Solution, Mr Velopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u213	Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the New Democracy once again proves - and I will say this directly - that not only has it stolen the Greek people' s vote, not only has it fooled the Greeks in the run-up to the election, but it also works dangerously, Mr Stefani. If it was me, Minister of National Defence, Mr. Panayotopoulos, I'd be gone now. They make you an army within your army. They make you an army within the army. You don't trust the Greek army and you make a new body weird. I don't know what it is? Are the praetorians? They are the Prime Minister's praetorians that Mr Stefanis is under the Prime Minister, and they will only be controlled by the Prime Minister and Mr Stefanis. What are you doing? Do you admit that the state is incapable of protecting its borders? Is that what you're admitting? And Mr. Stefanis came and read us as if it were a daily SGM order. Nobody understands what he said. Honestly, we don't understand. They were telling you by SYRIZA - and they are absolutely right - that you had to bring this beforehand to discuss it already. How do you do it? What is it? Are these fast track jobs? Can't you wait two, three days? Are you in such a hurry? I don't get it. Mr. Panayotopoulos, do you know they're canceling you now? Do you understand that? Do you understand what you're doing, gentlemen? You're building an army in the army? You're making a subset of the whole? And there's a lot else in it. Because I read it well. At least my mind is cut off. If you're going through all your fellow idiots and idiots, you're wrong. 'Cause he's inside talking about direct assignments, no contests. In the past, you denounced they made direct assignments. The New Democracy MPs came out when SYRIZA and the ANEL ruled - and Mr Dritsas was Minister at the time - and they said: "Do assign them." And today, you legalize the violation of the law. You're violating the law with commissions due to urgency. Of course, your people have eaten too now. Huh, isn't that right? Mr. Comrade from the JRC, you said things. Trust me, you're very sympathetic to me. But the Golden Dawn in the European Parliament has voted 'in your favour'. We voted against the JRC, fascism, Nazism and communism. But the Golden Dawn has helped you. He did not vote against 'against you'. Understood?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u214	Justification matters.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u215	Mr Colleague, I am addressing more serious issues. I'll tell you something else, 'cause you're in history now. You're a Paleolithic political system.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u216	Does Jesus ’ letters say that? Do not cultivate impressions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u217	We don't want to send you either to Jaro or to Macronissos. Trust us. We don't want to send you anywhere. Your people wanted Siberia and the Columbians. No, we. We say something specific.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u218	Gullag.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u219	Gullag. Colhoz, it's work.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u220	Don't have a dialogue, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u221	You know, I didn't go to college or to Gullag. Some others were going.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u222	I'm talking about the correctness of the term.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u223	You're right. You're correcting me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u224	Go on, Mr. Velopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u225	The Golden Dawn has supported them in the European Parliament. No, we. We need to know what we're talking about. Listen, Mr Ministers, for the amendment. What does the explanatory statement say? 'Official obligation on illegal immigrants'. Is that a moral obligation for our country? Is it a moral obligation for our country to host the whole world here, the unjust and convicted? Don't you have any obligations against the Greeks? Just illegal immigrants? I don't get it. As far as the National Coordinator is concerned, now listen here. Mr Stefanis will monitor the work of non-governmental organisations on Greek territory. So you legalize them from the window to non-governmental organisations. He'll check. Supervision means control, it means legitimisation from the window. I know what I'm telling you. When I check something, it means I'm supervising. Will he control the balance sheets? Will he control their income and their expenses? What's he gonna control? How many is it? How do they work? This body cannot control the financial data of NGOs. Who are we mocking here? It's not a check. Supervision may be with a broad interpretation of the term. It shall supervise the transport of illegal immigrants within the territory. So he's ensnaring them directly and immediately. Transporters are trapped, counted and staying in Greece. As far as the Single Border Surveillance Body is concerned, it's about money from the state budget. Otherwise, you have told me that the European Union is giving us the funds. The state budget will be the money. The Greek people, gentlemen of the New Democracy, will pay for them. Do you hear what you neo-democrats are doing? Because you've been mocking us for too many months. You are telling us it pays - it says - the European Union funds. After saying 'State budget'. His work is rescue operations. He's getting personal - he says - from the Department of National Defence. Attorneys will become waiters of those who come now, of illegal immigrants. What are you doing? What is it you're making? Do you understand what you're making? It legalizes awards directly. This is where your friends will be rich. Here will eat lobster and shrimp and caviar, the friend of Prime Minister and Stephanie and some others. That's the truth. Direct assignments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u226	That's what others did, not us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u227	They did it. We all denounced them together. But you do it today, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u228	In advance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u229	That's the accident, Mr. President. That you're doing it. Same as you. You are the same, flesh from their flesh. You are doing exactly the same thing and - I will say it directly - incorrectly. With the aim - it says - the needs of food, accommodation, transport, cleanliness, care, refugees and immigrants. They're illegal immigrants to us. I repeat: anyone who is smuggling into our country is a illegal immigrant. Whoever comes legally is an immigrant. Listen, gentlemen of the New Democracy, not only did you have no plan, not only did you have no programme, not only did you steal the vote of the Greek people, but the worst thing is that you are unrepentant of your ongoing mistakes. You bring rain amendments, you bring whatever it is. You're confusing everything, military energy, air force with something else. These are incredible things. Let's get serious. Let's go to Mr. Panayotopoulos. Minister, I want you to answer me directly. You're talking on your phone. It's okay. You made a statement to ANT1, to Mr Papadakis, and you said they wouldn't allow you to go to hot spots. And they see us as young children. The Minister of National Defence is not allowed by the IMOs, as he said. He's leaving. There's a war with Turkey. That's why the Minister is leaving. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I want the Minister to listen to us, but sometimes you don't listen to ears when you talk, whether you talk or don't talk, it's like talking to the wall. I'm saying this so we can figure it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u230	Mr. President... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u231	First of all, mobile phones are forbidden when it speaks to party president, Mr Hatzidakis, my dear friend. And the Minister's here, because he's listening to us. He doesn't want to, he doesn't like it, that's what he hears, he has to listen to us. So, respect the speakers, every Velopoulos - for me I speak - each Hatzidakis, who is here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u232	I'm here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u233	You were here, you weren't, now you are. You're, you're not, you're again. I want to ask the Minister a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u234	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u235	Don't give me my hand like that. I can do worse than that. Trust me. I couldn't say as Minister that I can't go to hot spots because the IMOs forbid me. And I'm very noble all this time. Don't give me that hand, Minister. We've known each other since the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u236	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u237	So I'm saying, because we've known each other since the past: Is your previous statement true? Yes or no? Can you go to structures? Yes or no? That's what I'm saying. Answer us later. I don't move hands or legs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u238	I've already been.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u239	You'll go again. Go everywhere. Listen, ladies and gentlemen. I was expecting a bill really a law, which...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u240	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u241	My Minister, don't worry, don't worry. I don't want you to be so sad because we're both Macedonians. Of course, but you were talking about Macedonia in an election, but you did then and now you say "North Macedonia": Don't forget, after you get it on staff. Let's actually go. Our proposal is quite different, ladies and gentlemen. Because we do have problems, Mr Ministers, we insist on the militia and ethnic militia. I'll insist and call it. We must be like Israel. Since we are a country that has around enemies, we must be ready for any chance. It could never happen. We all wish that war will never happen to our children and grandchildren. But you have to prepare for the war if you don't want to taste it with defeat. It's over and out. So we need a militia and an ethnic militia. You guys bring me dentists and doctors for illegal immigrants. To understand your logic. Yeah, we're paying for dentists. Of course, I and I secured to be if I go to the dentist, I pay. I'm not going to the hospital. They have them for free. We're gonna take them out, we're gonna take them out, and their tooths, we're gonna clean them up, we're gonna make them clean, we're gonna make them white and we're gonna make them white and they're colored. That's a disgrace! The Greek can't go to a hospital and the others can come for free and take everything. This is not the case, ladies and gentlemen. They can't. We live in our world, like the media, Mr. Admiral, where you did not have torpedoes and we did not have torpedoes and we did not have military material, but your fellow soldiers have not spoken many times - to tell you everything in here - because to become a general and to get too high, you had to do well with the system. If the system and government went to you, you'd be a general. To the extent of the Brigadier, there's a worthyness there. From there on, the government pattern helps others and the good ones may be on the sidelines. Friends and friends, they make cosmostoric changes. Do you understand that? We have Johnson's election, this weird guy, all the media, they're making fun of him. You were all making fun of him. I've been watching the NSA, the New Democracy channel. I heard they've been criticizing you lately for a loan. They didn't get, he says, a loan from a bank, you didn't give it to them as government. Something's going on and you're messing with SKAY. Don't mess up. You need this channel, ladies and gentlemen. Don't miss that channel. Let's actually go. I say this: Johnson came out, which means that there is a huge problem in the European Union, because you are constantly talking about the European Union. There is no European Union. Put it right in your mind. This is a German union. It serves German interests and nothing else. And if you want an answer on the substance...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u242	I want to say something, Mr President, before the kids leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u243	If you can, Mr Stefani, Minister, when the speaker speaks, at least do not shout.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u244	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u245	I understand your irritation. I want answers. I don't want you to get upset. We're friends now from the old days.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u246	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u247	You will answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u248	No, I want before the kids go and let me say something.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u249	No, that's not happening anywhere. I don't know what you're doing to the army.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u250	Minister, we have not received the transfer document. That's exactly why.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u251	I want to talk to you about another issue. Please listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u252	Minister, what are you doing? Mr President, please very much. Let the Minister know the Rules of Procedure, please very much. We did it once with Mr. Voutsi. We did it with the Minister. You don't have the right to speak. Mr President, protect us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u253	Wait a minute, Mr. President. They've been announced, Minister, these kids from the high school of Elias.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u254	You can't bomb him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u255	What do you say, sir? The Rules of Procedure do not say what the President says. What are you talking about, Mr. Hatzidakis? You hear that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u256	Please. It's not announced twice. It's already announced.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u257	We've been talking about this for the kids.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u258	I am not saying that, Mr President. That's not what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u259	Mr. President, will you protect me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u260	I am not saying that, Mr President. That's not what I'm saying. You will allow me to say something.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u261	No, sir, we won't allow you. You interrupt the speaker?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u262	Minister, you will be given the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u263	Where have you seen this? Take it easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u264	It's moral.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u265	What's moral? What are you talking about? He'll answer later. You MPs, gentlemen. What are you talking about here? Will he interrupt the speaker to intervene?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u266	Wait a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u267	Will you interrupt the speaker?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u268	Mr President, just a minute. Minister, you have the right to take the floor after the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u269	Mr. President, to explain to the children...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u270	Let me finish. You will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u271	They're waiting for the kids to listen to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u272	Minister, I apply the Rules of Procedure. You have the right and you will be given the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u273	Christ and God bless you! You don't even know the Rules of Procedure in New Democracy and you rule Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u274	Please, Mr. President. The Minister will be given the floor immediately after your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u275	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u276	As far as the High School is concerned, the announcement and welcome from the House has already been made. It can't be twice. We don't have a document. We didn't get a document for another school.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u277	I'll take the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u278	Go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u279	I am making an appeal, Mr President. To distribute the Rules of Procedure to the Members of the New Democracy and the Ministers because they do not know the basics.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u280	He's overdoing it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u281	Come on, Savva, let's go to PAOK. Let go of these. PAOK, not me. To PAOK and Toumba, not to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u282	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u283	Touba and Ivan. Not to me. Let's actually go. When he doesn't know the basics and interrupts me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u284	Ladies and gentlemen, please. I apply the Rules of Procedure, and many times with tolerance, so that everyone can be satisfied. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u285	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u286	I'm working. I'm not a civil servant. I'm not a civil servant, Mr. Savvidis. Don't make me like that. You've been a civil servant for a lifetime. I'm a businessman and I pay tax. Do you understand, sir? To the Sabbidis! To PAOK! Where you sit, you catch votes!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u287	Mr Anastasiades, you are an old parliamentarian now, how is that possible? Please, your time will be kept, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u288	It's not possible! Jesus Christ and Mary, that is! What's that thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u289	I would ask you to address the plenary or the Bureau, not individually.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u290	I didn't talk to anyone, and they're screaming underneath.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u291	You keep challenging!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u292	Please don't interrupt! Keep going!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u293	Listen, gentlemen: You will learn, because you are ruling, to challenge. That means government, challenge answering. If you don't like it, ladies and gentlemen, don't be government, don't be ruled! It's simple. So you once stood up and yelled and screamed for SYRIZA. Now it bothers you to criticize you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u294	Mr. President, continue!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u295	Well, you're the best government, you've got the best ministers, you do the best governance in the country, you do it all right. Are you satisfied?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u296	Mr President, please come to the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u297	Well, let's actually go. Because we live in a changing world - and I was referring to Boris Johnson - to say that Europe is changing. It is very important that the government understands it. We cannot execute the orders of the Germans immediately, whatever that may be. And the proof is the last conflict between the Americans and Germans on Nord Stream 2, clearly. It's a pipeline against American interests from the north, and yet the Germans make it. And what did we do? We removed the possibility for Greece to become a hub and Turkey is an energy hub, it has pipelines. We did not get any pipeline from Ukraine or Russia, just so Piat doesn't abuse us, the man - what I say - the praitor, the chief, the commissioner who does what he wants in Greece and nobody talks about him. And I'm telling you to understand that you're making mistakes and you'll hear from us good faithed criticism and well-deserved. I just want you to understand one thing: we don't interrupt anyone when they talk, we respect speakers, we don't cry, even when they tell us things. My colleague said things about us. I didn't scream underneath. I came here and answered him from here. That is what Parliament's Rules of Procedure says, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. of the JRC has his opinion. His right, he said, expressed, came and answered, I don't shout underneath protesting because you call me that. So I'm telling you, we need to know what goes on. Good-looking, good-for-nothing review. Our criticism is not a bad option. We want this government to go well, because this is the country's last chance to get out of the deadlock. This is the reality, but with these mistakes, the amendments, my general, Mr Prussakis, with this amendment that you are bringing in, the country is not going well. What can we do now? Kissing the world? It's not good! In the wrong direction is your amendment, as is the bill, as is all that we have been discussing. In order to modernise Mr. Mylonis said so, I will say nothing specific about the bill. I just have to say: since 2012 we have no spare flow. Who ruled in 2012? I'm asking you. I'm a good guy. Who ruled in 2011-2012? I didn't want to raise the tons. I, New Democracy and PASOK ruled and we have no screws and spare parts since 2011-2012. It is not today the phenomenon, this history of the problem that Panagiotopoulos analyzed, and it does well and goes to solve it and needs to solve it. But that is another thing to forget who the moral and natural perpetrators of these crimes are today that the New Democracy wants to resolve with a delay. Don't forget! That's the point. So why wasn't ODA asked to give its opinion? Why did you avoid that, Minister? Did the DAC make an opinion? Oh, no. Did we book any contracts on the basis of letters?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u298	You're talking as a pope!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u299	Questions are, will the Minister answer then, gentlemen? Learn the Rules of Procedure! When I ask the Minister, the Minister will take the floor after and answer me. I'm asking questions. Article 2: You signed a procurement contract without maintenance and support contract. For seven years we won't have Mirage, is that what you're telling us? Christ and God bless you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u300	Please don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u301	I don't understand, gentlemen, I really don't understand. I'm asking questions. I'm asking questions, I want the Minister to answer. And that's forbidden?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u302	Keep going, please! But you too, Mr President, have been dialogued all the time. Finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u303	But they're yelling underneath, Mr. President. Listen: When one speaks outside of the text, like me, and they interrupt me from below, I cannot continue to speak because the flow of my speech has something to do with my brain and my voice. I don't read texts. You, most of you in here, read. I speak from breasts and from hearts. But when you interrupt me, I can't, I'll answer, I can't. It can't be done! So let's actually go. So because we say a lot of things, I won't say about the bills, I'll say about that here. What are we talking about in the Greek Army when we use Turkish tyres? The Greek Army takes tires from Turkey. I'll put it in the Minutes, Minister. It's not his responsibility. It is not the New Democracy's responsibility - I repeat - to make it clear to be quiet underneath. But he has to check it out. Why should I give Turkey money? We are talking about the Greek Army, OZKA-based tyres based in the city of Kocaelli, Turkey. So take them, get them here. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I want - to be constructive, to close today's speech - to tell you two - three basic things. Professor of Engineering, Mr. Yykinthos - my colleague Kyriakos - says: "I spoke, dear Minister, about the Greek companies that make UAV. There should be a committee from the Greek Parliament yesterday from representatives of the parties, we should call on all the children of these universities who do this work and create the substrate to build our own UAVs." You waited for America to take from Larissa, and you're doing well, because you say it's a prepared war. But shouldn't we be starting to get ready for these aircraft that don't need pilots? Turkey has its own production unit, we do not have, despite the fact that we are one of the first countries to build these special aircraft. So, I'm saying, shouldn't the Ministry do that? Why don't you do it? That's the model here. That's the model, they do it at the University of Thessaloniki. The government should convene a committee of all parties, so that we can finally start this story. And because I want to talk a little bit about AEZ - to close - I will ask a question: Libyan Chief A/GEN, this gentleman speaking in Greek channels, who studied here, who was at the Naval Testing School, said: "I have a mandate to immerse Turkish research if they come to Libya." Does the Greek Fleet Chief of the Armed Forces have such an order? The Chief of our Army has such an order? What's the order? What is the command of the Greek Army? What is the mandate given to him by you as a government, not you Members, the government? If a Turkish research vessel comes under Crete, what is our defence, what are the instructions? There was also a check yesterday on a ship in Crete from the Port. We didn't hear results. They say he carried weapons from Turkey to Libya. I didn't hear results. I reported to you that a war plane was undergoing a transfer plane and armed over Larissa went to Libya. We don't hear anything about all this. So if you don't understand what the Greek Solution wants to do, I'll give a very simple proof that you're doing something wrong. Do you know the island of Chinaroy? That's where there's an old lady, Mrs. Peace. From what I know, you've been to this little island. Listen, then, you cut her off the allowance of this woman and ask her for rent. She's being asked to pay rent because that's where she feeds her little goats. It's a rocky island, a small island, China - yes, Mr. Vitsa, I read it yesterday and I'm looking for it, Mr. Minister - who has an inhabitant, which means that he has goats, he has life and you will make it pay the woman who sits and keeps herself "Thrompillas" in the Aegean Sea. He's guarding thunderstorms, you guys! This island has as much economic life as it does because there's a woman and you've got her on top to pay. He's gonna get out of there, it's gonna be a deserted rock island, he doesn't have an EOZ, he doesn't have an economic life. Don't make such mistakes! Or don't leave the services, Mr. Panayotopoulos, it's not your fault, the agencies, the bureaucrats, the cardcases who don't understand what crimes they do every day. And I close by saying this: there is a complaint from the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cyprus. Nobody heard her here. None of you heard what the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cyprus, Mr Rolandes, said? No one mentioned it here, Mr. Vitsa. No one says so. Because some are being cut off to make George Papandreou President of the Republic or the Signite or anyone else. So he said in 2003 that the government of Simitis through George Papandreou pressed Cyprus, which established EEZ with Egypt, not to cross the border to the west, namely to Greece. What's that called? And Cyprus did so, and was forced by the Greek government not to come to Kastelorizo and stay to the east. That is why Turkey is claiming EEZ today. The Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cyprus said so and all the means were buried. This is called - for me - at least moral or physical autocracy in betrayal. When you push Castelorizo out of the EOZ and you're the Minister of Foreign Affairs and you're the president of a party - Mr. Simitis - what are you? Why isn't anyone talking about all this? Why? And Mrs Gennamas suggests that we also make him a President of the Republic. In conclusion, I should like to say this because many people are talking about the EEZ: ladies and gentlemen, the times are critical. Mr. Dendias must understand that in the next thirty three days precisely, Greece has the right to really resist with legal data. We must testify coordinates to the UN. We're obligated. We must submit to the UN within three days coordinates for EEZ in Kastelorizo - I repeat - and not a letter. The Foreign Minister's reply does not include coordinates, does not specify anything, it is a gambled, wheelchair shot. If we do not submit within forty days of the day that Turkey has submitted coordinates, then we have given Kastelorizo to Turkey and the next generations will have you - I will say it directly - responsible for another betrayal, losing national sovereignty south of Kastelorizo. Press the Prime Minister, pressure Mr. Dozens to testify tomorrow's coordinates. It is the Turkish legal argument, and Akar says it is constantly saying that Greece does not testify coordinates, so he says - it is wrong. Do it! I am warning you, because then neither the Prespes are able to drop governments, nor Turkey. You'll fall on your own after, if you do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u304	The Minister of National Defence, the Deputy Minister of National Defence and the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece have requested the floor. Mr. Stephanis will speak first. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u305	Mr President, thank you very much. I am beginning to apologise to you and Parliament, because I do not know the Rules of Procedure. I really didn't know him, and I apologize for what I did. But I want to stand on a point of morality. What Rules of Procedure give someone the right to address me, judging an amendment by saying that "does Stefan eat with gold spoon"? Is there a regulation that says that? And I would like to say why I have connected - and I apologise again - my interruption with the children. For these children we have served for forty-one years at the border, defending these children. And we'll do it, as our oath says, until the last ranid of our blood. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And with children and us, for these children, we are fighting for their future, all of us and you. So you can't tell those kids in front of saying that thing. Also, Mr President, you said I was upset. I think I'm upset. If people say that and don't get upset, the environment should worry. If you don't get upset about this, it's your business. I've learned to get upset and get really upset. I apologise for my style, but it's not right what you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u306	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u307	The answer was dignified, and I imagine, you will give the clarification as well. Here, Mr Velopoulos, you have the floor to finish this because it is not appropriate for any of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u308	The Minister didn't understand. From my mouth the "Feper will eat with golden spoons" has never been said, because I don't mean it and I don't believe it. Please very much, Minister, you have misunderstood. The Rules of Procedure may not, however, be better listened to my Greeks. I said: 'Some of your friends', I did not say to you. The government...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u309	He said about the procurement amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u310	So what do you want to tell me? That Tsipras or the Minister of Tsipra took money? Is that what you're telling me? I told you about the assignments, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u311	Let him explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u312	So I'm talking about direct awards, there's always the customary law of gold spoon. I didn't talk about anyone like you. And apologies should have sent her to me and not to the House. You interrupted me. And finally, let me tell you this. Clearly you served and honored and well in your merchandise, but I believe there, in the Army, that you were becoming contests to obtain material. You didn't give up. Isn't that right? So here, why commission? That's what I told you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u313	Very good. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u314	Although on matters relating to the draft law we are introducing to the vote, I will reply to my central position, I would like to make a few comments after what has been heard about the amendment, which is actually coming to Parliament, despite the fact that we had not agreed to tabling amendments during the debate in the committee, but because, like others, it regulates some urgent issues that are urgently needed to be settled and not to have any other margin, it is being voted on today. First of all, where and until the establishment of a national coordinator for the treatment and management of the migration-refugee issue, in the first article of the amendment, and the establishment of a single Border Surveillance Body, composed of three ministries, namely the Armed Forces, the Ministry of National Defence, the Port Authority, the Ministry of Shipping and the Police, the Ministry of Civil Protection, are an army within the military, for which I must stand up and leave a protester? Where did you get that? Did you understand that from the establishment of a Single Border Surveillance Body? Just what happens, as always, at least with regard to this political leadership, is that the Ministry of National Defence does not leave weight and responsibility, but comes and takes extra weight and any responsibility is needed to defend the security of external borders, but also internal security. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That's what we're asked for, that's what we do and we'll do more if we're asked. And you will see, if you show patience and goodwill, within a short time of this day what a better performance there will be, as far as border control and internal security are concerned. And something else you've been raped for so long. If you are watching my own activity and not selling tires at the border - probably someone in an urgent need can go next door, in Turkey to take some reserve for no jeep - you will see that for about a month I have personally announced, present and seated in a UAV conference, unmanned vehicles, the program for the Greek UAV. Yeah, we're buying right now. We are negotiating with the US Government on three elements of an unmanned vehicle, with strategic capabilities, namely surveillance capabilities from the Black Sea to Libya. And don't tell me that we should not control the region until Libya after the latest developments, but we should only go from Evros to Crete. It has already been qualified by the CSCE and they come to the meeting of the Committee on Equipment and Conventions, as a separate sub-programme, two more unmanned Israeli-made vehicles, for reasons, if you like, and to stimulate our strategic relationship with these two countries. But also exploiting, as political leadership again, and the Greek talent and inventiveness, two contacts have already been made with the research team of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, teachers and students, who have developed three - four original, unmanned vehicles - and the alleged one. And given that from the next programming period we will have very many financial opportunities to develop co-production programmes, our own non-managed European funds, so I have announced the production of the Greek UAV. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In the summer another prototype will fly somewhere in Thessaly. And as time passes, we will have more results than this original research effort of Greek teachers and students. Just, now, the Ministry and its political leadership will embrace this effort. We have the talent, we have the product of research, the original result, the financial opportunities, the defence industry and with a specific timetable and road map we will soon have the Greek UAV. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Fifteen years it took Turkey - and you know it - to develop its own programme. It started about 2001 and ended recently. So it'll take some time. But because there are possibilities, as I have told you, and all the pieces of the puzzle have nothing to do with our own effort and initiative, I believe that the Greek effort will work much sooner. The rest of the debate on the bill we're bringing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u315	Mr. Pachilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u316	Minister, I am tempted now to ask SYRIZA - and I see the person who was the Deputy Minister - and you this. Really, the drone base in Larissa, which you gave the Americans, what part is it? And we ask directly: can it at any time control our country's dry, sea and air? Second question: What are our drones doing on the Black Sea and Libya? Do we have a border to defend them? Because that's the kind of standard he's got.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u317	I'll answer that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u318	You'll answer that, yes, but you know we're not naive.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u319	This is their embryos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u320	We're not naive at all. Is that their embryo? Thank you very much. It's clean. It's the naval plans all over the region. That's what they're serving. Secondly, I wanted to say to Mr Velopoulos, who has left - badly left - this. I could answer him in a provocative way, but I will answer him on the substance. But I can't say it from this Step. It says that we and the Golden Dawn have voted in the European Parliament, in this emphatic resolution which mainly considers the Soviet Union to be responsible for World War II rather than Germany. In other words, you voted 'in favour'. Golden Dawn voted "on" because he would like to be further away, saying that the SS and Hitler were the benefactors of humanity. Only those ridiculous things if you sell Jesus ’ letters can you say to the House to hit the JRC and even announce them in advance: Great revelations of Velopoulos about the JRC! For the rest he says, the colloquiums, etc., all right! Reheated food, shaved and poisonous. Life proves it itself, where the Russians became today and how they lived then. Let us now talk about the substance. There is today a climate of celebration - certainly here in the House, no one said anything, to be objective - about the European Council's decision yesterday on the issue of the Turkey- Libya agreement. We want to say that we have heard many verbal convictions of various things over the years, but we have also witnessed exactly the opposite practice. Germany still sells arms to Turkey, for example, and other countries negotiate with Turkey. We therefore say that this rhetoric that serves various interests does not overturn the bankruptcy of this political position, which says that while Greece is the 'good child' - to say so - the Americans, the United States, NATO and the European Union will protect the country's sovereign rights. Well, don't you read history? You're reading. And you know very well that it will protect them while protecting Cyprus, while the Imian night - and I address the military in particular - NATO has not made any statement that Imia is Greek territory. Didn't he have the map? Why did he not come out and place himself for what Turkey is doing? And today, does NATO not take equal distances against the raw, aggressive, out of every sense of international law, claims of the Turkish bourgeoisie? Why doesn't he go out raw and open to condemn it? So is the Americans. Same game they play. So don't tell us now that it will protect the national interests, because in addition to all the rest of Turkish provocation and dislocation - one could say - with the claims and all the others are not cut off from the general situation in the Mediterranean, where there are strong competitions for which - Mr Lazaridis, I would like to say to you - when you introduced them for the risks you have reduced to the Greek-Turkish. The fact that, within introductory terms -'slain' peoples, that many interests, many countries are involved in the wealthy sources, roads of transport and much more, talk! That's all there is. But that works in a more general context, where - I will say it popular - everyone is haggling with everyone at the moment, beyond and outside the European Union. What a single one, etc.Huh? Germany, Italy and France are haggling. Who are they haggling for? For the people? Oh, no. For their companies, for who's getting the wealthy sources and who's going to control them. We therefore say that the developments and the arrangements that may be made are dangerous. Here I am opening a parentheses: It has very begun to play the issue of co-management, which means a tradition of national sovereignty, outside international law, etc. It's gonna open a new round. Even if there is co-management, in which we are vertically opposed - and I will say what we stand for - a new round will be opened. There are new conflicts, new competitions and possible new wars. Of course these are known: Iraq, Libya, Syria. Why did all this happen? For democracy? Petroleum, all over. The road to oil is lined up with the blood of the peoples. The attitude of the Greek Governments, of all parties, New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA, etc. is well known. What are they saying? With the United States, NATO and the European Union. So who's with? With those who opened the blood road in the wider area and not just. They didn't open him? Who did surgery? Who broke Libya overnight? Who hit Syria? What did they do in Iraq? What are the results? Hundreds of thousands, millions of people are losing their lives, and we have become familiar with that, and we also call them 'protectives' of peoples and national interests. We're saying, that's disgraceful! When they talk about stability, they mean stability of their own interests, oil companies, monopolies and natural geostrategic leadership in major competitions. The JRC's view is that whatever negotiation and settlement is done, it must be done strictly on the basis of international law, the law of the sea and the sovereign rights of the country. We also say that the only policy that could, not overthrow in total, but bring about a small earthquake, shaken, would be the immediate withdrawal of Greece from NATO. Such a line. We are leaving, you are not protecting us, you are not taking a position - that is well known - and of course a struggle of peoples in the region, of all the peoples. The Turkish people and all other peoples have no hatred against each other. Why would they have? Poverty from there, poverty from here. Exploders there, exploiters here. Peoples must join forces against imperialist forces. And of course the American bases should leave Greece. What is it that Greece is today? It's an infinite American base, yes or no? Five new ones have been given by SYRIZA, which of course you are going to'storey' them. Renewal of Souda. They control everything in our country. Why do we have American bases? To protect Greek sovereignty? Oh, no. In order to facilitate the murderous operations of the Americans and NATO against the peoples in the wider region, either to the north - see from Dardanelli and above, Russia - or to the south, based on competition for oil. You'll tell me: Where's everything that the JRC says about today's bill? All governments have made this choice: Americans, NATO, European Union. So let's see how this is expressed in the Armed Forces? 40% of the Armed Forces are in NATO's orders, yes or no? NATO does not have its own army completely independent. Have you all agreed 40%? You have agreed, all those who have ruled. We say 'no'. Secondly, Greece's participation - and we will see and how these affect - maritime operations and interventions across borders. What are we doing in Afghanistan? What are we trying to do to make it easier for the war against Yugoslavia? What are we trying to send some fry out of Libya? Don't tell us. We're read. There was nothing that the natoons and the Europeans and the Americans asked for, which not all responded to, but all the Greek governments consider it a great diplomatic success to be part of the slaughter of other peoples. How, then, does this overall policy work? First of all, I mention the Army. You're obliged to give 40% and you also have rapid intervention forces. One thing is, it's natoman. Does this objectively undermine the ability of the Greek Armed Forces to defend the territorial integrity and borders of the country, yes or no, when at a time when they can ask you for 40% and you are obliged to give? Secondly, are governments forced to supply expensive weapons which must be American, yes or no? Isn't that the term? I mean, they have to button with all the naval weapons. What results does that have? Firstly, you have one-sided sources and tomorrow you will be danced in the bastion, as you are danced and danced by the French Government with Mirage and the spare parts. Why didn't he give them? Why would they refuse to sign a transnational agreement and say “go to Dassault”? Because Greece was in the crisis and wanted cash. He didn't recognize another payment. Yeah or no, right? That's right. So did they have us in the hand, yes or no? So, unilateral sources also bear a heavy financial burden, billions of arms doubtful to defend the country, but too direct to participate in the American interventions. Second, what's the effect? Extortion. If a state changes its line and you're at war, you'll be left with ammunition, since the defence industries - I'll say that, and then - you've completely broken up all these years. Thirdly, because it is precisely because you have to take naval weapons, we also ask the soldiers. And I'm saying this directly since we're talking about the F-16, can MARTIN LOCKHEED and the Americans on the cockpit in, change your schedule and send you to the White Mountains to stall instead of going to another mission? What do you think of lighters, the rest of you? They don't have the key? Be careful, I'm telling you, we're very well-read, not undetected. We're not seeing this by chance. So what do we say? Once he's in control, he can direct you and wherever he wants and depending on his own interests. And his own interests, as historically accepted, do not coincide with the interests of the Greek people as well. Fourth issue, naval military exercises. We have asked the question several times and no Minister dares to answer it. How much is Greece's participation in naval exercises that have nothing to do with the country's defence? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me some time from my dentistry, Mr President. Are the black Sea exercises, which the Greek people pay millions? One F-16 only to fly, wants 10,000 euros, put down damage, spare parts, staff pay, how many tens of millions. What does it mean to practice with Israel and the United States of America in Grevenas? Simulation in Iran. What does this have to do with the fight to defend the borders? Should I say more? I can say dozens. In Norway we have, in the greatest exercise in recent years, been with two F-16 and other military personnel. How much is the Greek people paying? Is that for the border or for the plans of the Americans, NATO and the European Union? Who's the rival, Minister, in these scenarios? Russia first of all. Is it or isn't Russia?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u321	Terrorism.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u322	What terrorism? Is it terrorism in the Black Sea? Is it terrorism in Norway? Where is he? Is it Terrorism in Norway? It's the border with Russia. Now do not work, as NATO says, that the biggest military opponent is Russia and China. We're not with Russia. She's capitalist too. But what does that have to do with anything? So they're related to Turkey, which is the threat? With the Turkish bourgeoisie, that is, not with the people. We are therefore opposed to this general position. We understand the needs, etc., but somewhere we have to tell the Greek people the truth and what to do. And the truth, at least ours, and we think it is the objective, starts as follows: First, the sole mission of the Armed Forces of the country is to defend the borders, the territorial integrity of the country and the sovereign rights. Therefore, since this is their task - and so it must be, which is not, it is at least part of it - we say that equipment must serve this dogma that is both political and economic. Because the Greek people, with EUR 5 billion, are 'blowing' the time that a large proportion of them - not to say the greatest - are in our relationship with NATO. The bigger one is, if you count it, another if we use it to a certain extent. Therefore, all the policy of all governments, which is linked to NATO and the Americans, is changing the doctrine. Does this doctrine change, Minister and gentlemen of SYRIZA? What does the military doctrine of Greece write? It is defensive to protect its borders and meet the interests and obligations of the Alliance. Blood everywhere! Terror, destruction, murderers of the people! They haven't left anything standing. Three million Syrians, like mosquitoes! Libya, a country that literally made it a 'bug glass'. Iraq, Afghanistan, thousands of people are killed every day. Who's pulling the trigger? The Americans, NATO. So your allies are them. And to say, in this context, we are against upgrading the F-16s. Second matter. We're talking about ADA and defensive industry. Well, isn't there some shame in the Chamber by the governors? A little shame! Who renounced the Greek Defence Industry? The Communist Party of Greece may be against this system as a whole etc., but all years it has tabled proposals for upgrading, for what we can produce. And we can produce much more and, indeed, we are pioneers. Greek scientists are top. The anti-aircraft project has been closed by the Americans and Israel monopolistics, because it is one of the best. They can produce too many things and ODA could be, not the one that is today, both electronic systems and everything. Who kicked her? Your policy. Why? Do you know the European directive on the martial industry? What's that supposed to mean? This puts restrictions on smaller countries, subcontractors and gathers the military industry to a certain extent, Germany, Britain, France and the Netherlands. And the others will be - how am I supposed to say it? - They're outdated, and they're gonna work for them. So why do we say 'no' here, even though we say that EEB should be here? We had a whole plan and had proposed it, and indeed all the unions agreed, from all the political forces expressed in the unions, to upgrade the industry. Now where's it going? If tomorrow's "LOCKHEED" regrets, does it close the factory or not? It is a 100% unilateral dependency on these programmes that it is even called upon to implement, and it is not possible. It has enormous potential, but it has kicked out the best breasts it had with your policy these years. You are choking it and now you are bonding it to the'marble' of 'LOCKHEED'. What if tomorrow the Americans change their choice? Because their choice is to take out "fraud" from F-16 and, secondly, to make parking to repair and maintain their planes close to business centers, so that they can participate in murderous operations.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u323	You have also covered the time of dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u324	One more minute. You're talking about F-16. I read a document from the American Pentagon in Congress: "The upgrading of F-16 will help achieve the US foreign and national security objectives and the participation of Greece in Natali", and I say terrorists, "ships". Here's the proof. You want the second one, too? He says the spokesman - I do not need to say the name - of MARTIN LOCKHEED, who is vice-president of European, Middle East and Africa's business initiatives: 'The investment to upgrade F-16 should be carried out anyway, since the F-16 should be fully interoperable with F-35 when the latter are acquired', they put forward a perspective, 'and when these two systems work together'. Only, to tell you one more thing, the F-35s are working on satellites and when the satellite is cut, they're blind. That is why we are saying 'no' and we have proposed another defence policy and that equipment, etc., should not be one-sided. The rest of it was placed by Nikos Papanastasis for what we are voting on. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u325	The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group has asked for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u326	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Palphie, you're a legal officer. Clearly, I cannot suggest your legal knowledge because I am not a legal person. But you will allow me with great courtesy as a history not to make suggestions for my work. For the specifics of letters and manuscripts, because it is my specialty, as a paleotheologist, to tell you that they exist, they are at the Dionysius Monastery, but as an atheist you have not, I imagine, gone to Mount Athos. So I challenge you to go together to the Monastery of Dionysius, see with your eyes these specific ones. Now why did you identify with SCAI, with a channel that supports the New Democracy all the time, I didn't get it. However, I cannot comment on your legality. You're much better than me. And one last thing. I didn't expect you to hit a man's work. It's my job. I'm working, Mr. Paphie. That's not bad. I work, I work. I've been working since I was 16, and at least I've had a lot of people in my business, hundreds of people who are all being paid normal, normal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u327	I didn't hit any work.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u328	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-one students and students and three educational attendants from the High School of Lejanes Ilias. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Christos Boukokos, has the floor for twelve minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u329	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, I will start with the amendment on which a great deal of discussion has just taken place. We are talking about the amendment to create a single border, sea and land surveillance body. I must say here that I have taken a number of contradictory approaches to the limits of political paradox. What happened to this day? The opposition parties accused the government of not doing anything quickly about immigration, in which the flows are growing. The government has announced a policy integrated for about a month and is now starting to implement it, with this amendment, with the creation of this single body. It is also charged with the implementation of its policy. If that's not contradictory, then I wonder what it is. We have heard other paradoxes here. We heard that the structure of the Armed Forces is changing, because a National Coordinating Center is being created, which makes us the honour of a leading former officer who is currently participating in our Government. If that's the case...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u330	Have you read that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u331	Mr. Vitsa, please. If that is the case, it means that the object of the Armed Forces is to deal with immigration, to change your argument. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] From there on, we have heard some accusations here from some parties about the supplies of the relevant services that will cooperate with this centre in the competitive tender process and not with the tender procedure. The timing of this possibility alone from winter 2019-2020 to June 2020 makes it impossible to conduct competitions and, indeed, when it is a great subject, because if the timescales given by the law, the case of objections and all of this, you realise that no competition could take place at all. This is where the defence ministry's possibilities are being handed over to coordinate, in fact, a project of national importance. And what are these possibilities? It's experience, know-how, discipline. All the rest are provided by the co-legislative ministries. There is, therefore, no question on this matter for us. The government is now implementing and implementing the policy it has announced in due course. So no one is surprised. It is not something the government had not announced to the Greek people. I have also heard it called 'Ma', will the national coordinator control the non-governmental organisations?' It is said, in fact, by political forces which blamed the current government for letting non-governmental organisations perpetuate in the country. Should the organised Greek state not have a very comprehensive and documented view of what non-governmental organisations operate in Greece and what is their object in dealing with the refugee - immigration problem? On the one hand, the government is accused of not doing anything, on the other, when it draws up a specific policy, and once again is accused by the same political forces. Well, that's paradoxical. To go through the bill we're talking about today. I will start by the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Dritsa, who rightly said that this is a programme that was drawn up and agreed by the SYRIZA Government. Of course, no one doubts that. And despite the fact that the programme is improved, neither our rapporteur nor our ministers have claimed that. Do you know what our difference is? It is that we in the context of the continuity of the Greek state, as part of the necessary strategy, but also of the need for national unity, are implementing a useful programme to strengthen the Armed Forces, not with a half heart, but we are adopting it fully and we undertake to implement it within the timetables and in a sufficient manner. We are not ignoring the paternity of the programme. We recognize its usefulness, improve it and implement it within the timetables. There is therefore no point in confronting this. I will take the opportunity to say that I am very pleased, as I think the overwhelming majority of fellow Members are, by the fact that only in the last three days at the National Representation on two major issues, such as facilitating Greeks abroad to participate in the electoral processes, but also today's bill, which, if you like, strengthens the Armed Forces of the country, is presented with major major consensus, which strengthens and strengthens national unity in times of difficulty and trouble. I do not want to in any case, ladies and gentlemen, to imply that the implementation of this programme, which is included in the eight articles under discussion, has to do with the geopolitical instability which is currently being recorded in our region. It has nothing to do with the neighbor's challenges. It was a programme that was decided two years earlier and it is now starting to be implemented. In fact, however, it is linked to what is happening in our neighborhood. And we all know that it will not be the only programme that will strengthen the Armed Forces and the country's deterrent power. They will follow more, because it is also a duty of the government, of the country and of the Greek people to strengthen national defence. We live in a world that is stirred by global geopolitical instability, and these phenomena take a stronger form in our region, in our neighborhood. They are all aware today that our national interests are at stake and are at stake in the Eastern Mediterranean. We also know Turkey's intentions to play a role - and not only - in the region, but also to strengthen its global role, dominating the wider region of the Eastern Mediterranean. We cannot remain indifferent to all of this. Above all, we can only be united. The challenges are many and they are serious. We see them as they unfold before us every day. As the SYRIZA rapporteur has said, it is one of the issues that must, if you like, require national unity and national unity. In issues of existential importance to the country and the nation, what unites us is always more than what separates us. That is why I am pleased to point out today that, despite their individual disagreements, most of Parliament's political forces support this bill. Of course it is not just the defensive shield of the country, which is responsible for the worthy leadership of the Ministry of National Defence and the government headed by the Prime Minister, but it is a matter that we should be interested in. In fact, if you notice the processes in Greek society today, despite the fact that migration is a very serious problem, on the Greek people's agenda now the Greeks and tensions take first place and have retreated migration - refugee, if any, into the second place of interest of the Greek people. I am not saying this to raise some concern, but to highlight, even more, the need for national unity that is being presented today, which was presented the day before yesterday in the bill to facilitate the participation of our relatives in such matters. On such issues it is more than necessary for this climate, which is now being observed in the main provisions of the draft law. Of course, it is not only the strengthening of the national defence and the deterrent power of the country's Armed Forces. Of course, what the Prime Minister is doing with the internationalisation of the challenges of the neighbour, with the construction of a diplomatic wall, particularly in the European Union, but also in all the supranational organisations involved in the country, is the first step that must be taken and that is what must be done. But no one's going to ally with you diplomaticly unless there's any inner corrosion. This is a necessary condition to transmit a power message. As for the delays in implementing this programme and the time-consuming responsibilities of the governments - because there are indeed delays - we should not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that in the last decade our country has experienced one of the greatest economic crises in its history. I do not think there is anyone in this Chamber, but also outside in the Greek society that listens to us today, who does not want to strengthen the country's Armed Forces or is reluctant to do so when it decides to strengthen the country's Armed Forces. However, this must always be a function of the country's potential, so that other problems do not arise. That is why I am delighted to hear in this Chamber today the Minister of National Defence, Mr Nikolaos Panayotopoulos, announcing that the scientific staff of our universities, these young people who, through such research and productive programmes, can keep them in the country by giving them an object of high importance, are immediately beginning to transform the research product into a result that will strengthen the country's defence capacity. And that's very great. And I think all the political forces will support it. I would not like, Mr President, to take up all the time, I will also have the possibility of secondary education. However, I would like to say that these are issues which we are discussing today which are not for easy impression. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] And I would say, my humility would suggest to Parliament, when we discuss these issues in this House, that we do not go into technical detail, that we do not go into many detail, that I appeal to colleagues, because in the end we confirm what sounds like a joke, that only in Greece and Japan do not need spies, because in Greece everyone is speaking and in Japan. On these issues, be a little more careful. There is the Committee on Foreign Affairs and National Defence, all the parties are represented, and that is where I think all the questions may be resolved. Therefore, both the bill agreed by the overwhelming majority and the amendment that is dealing with another issue alongside, parallel, Mr Dritsa and Mr Vitsa, is also facing issues which have to do with the Ministry of National Defence, but there is a need for a national coordination centre that is facing an urgent problem. And that is the possibility of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u332	Good afternoon to everyone and me. Let me tell you that Mr Stefanos Gikas, Corfu from New Democracy, will speak. Mr. Dimitrios Vitsas will be followed by SYRIZA. And then Mr. Loverdos, the Parliamentary spokesman from the Change Movement, has been asked for the floor. Here, Mr. Gika, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u333	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our rapporteur has begun with an opinion from Thucydides. I'm going to get into this temptation, too, to justify it after my thoughts. So Thucydides said that it is a post generally admitted that in order to keep a state free, it should be at least as strong as its neighbours. I therefore think that this post should be applied by each Greek government, because we are not Belgium, we do not have a border with Luxembourg, but we have a short-sighted neighbour. There is no doubt that in recent years, but in particular in recent years, Turkey has dramatically increased its challenges both at quantity and at quality levels. I will tell you that as far as marine incidents are concerned, for example, in 2009 we had ninety, which means that ninety-time Turkish warships violated Greek territorial waters. In 2014, we had three hundred seventy-seven times one incident. Today, in the nineteenth of 2019, more than two thousand thirty two were. It is also the picture of national airspace breaches, which for the first time in the nineteen months have exceeded four thousand three hundred. The excesses from Greek islands exceeded eighty, when in 2010 we had only fourteen. Also, considering what Turkey does in the Eastern Mediterranean, which disputes - as in the Aegean - directly national sovereign rights and, of course, the road taken by the Turkish defence industry, which has evolved many times, when it only covered 20% of the needs of the Turkish Armed Forces, today covers over 65%, with the goal of 2030 covering 85%, you understand that our position and our own policy and view should be changed. I therefore believe that this should be the case. I am making the suggestion from this step - and I have already done it in public, and I shall fully agree with what our Parliamentary spokesman has said about the need to increase armaments for the Armed Forces, strengthen the armaments expenditure, so I am making the proposal, Minister, from now on, for a five-year period, that the budget for the armaments programmes should be increased by 0.5% of GDP. It's a billion. There are surpluses. We can therefore, with these five billion in depth over five years to meet important armaments needs of the Armed Forces and decisions of the CSCE that have started many years ago, but I will be standing by the CSCE decision of 13 October 2014, which was updated by the CSCE decision of March 2015 by the Tsipras Government, to be implemented rapidly. We owe this because if we do not have powerful Armed Forces - of course we do not have even stronger powers, with strong deterrent ability - it is a given that the Ankara review policy will continue unrelentingly and the question of national sovereign rights as well. Now, as far as this bill is concerned, it is certainly in a positive direction. Solutions are being made for some equipment projects, which should have already been launched for two - perhaps more - years. And of course, not only are we voting for it, but we are also very much waiting for the next bill, which will strengthen defence and the Armed Forces. I would also like to comment on what the SYRIZA rapporteur has said very carefully. He said then, at the end of 2014, the military opposition had come to the Ministry of Defence, informed about the various equipment programs, about the needs of our defence industry and that what we are seeing today is a product of SYRIZA's processing and process. I will say that yes, of course, it is a follow-up to a process that had taken place at the time, but, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, there have been significant delays and there have been significant delays, because many of the programmes that you yourself ratified by the CSCE decision of March 2015 did not go as they should and channelled change funds. In any case, we're looking forward. What we are interested in is the strengthening of the Armed Forces and, in particular, the strengthening of the domestic defence industry, the unexploited capital called "supply industry". Because we have know-how, we have experts and, unfortunately, some other speakers have said so - they are heading abroad to find a better destiny, better working conditions. I think that this government - and we have heard it in the programme statements by Mr Panayotopoulos - is being given the opportunity to reverse the negative situation for the domestic defence industry, to give it breath, to facilitate and to bring added value to all our equipment programmes so that part of them, as is now the case with F-16, can be taken over by the domestic defence industry, to give solutions. I am absolutely certain, Minister, that in our next bill on armaments, the decisions you make will be just as brave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u334	Thank you, too. Mr. Dimitrios Vitsas has the floor from SYRIZA. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. I'm sure you'll be consistent.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u335	Unfortunately for you, Mr President, I will not be consistent.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u336	Don't do this to me. You're asking for more from up here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u337	If you don't understand - and you won't understand it, because you weren't in the Chamber - a missile has fallen in the room.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u338	Missile?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u339	Here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u340	A missile has been dropped in the Chamber by tabling the amendment from the Ministry of National Defence. It won't stay that way. You can cut me off, you can turn me off my microphone, etc. I start calmly, relax. I say I like to talk to people who enlighten the ancient Greek secretariat. Of course, I have noticed that the Members and officials of the New Democracy particularly like the part concerning the Athenians and the Milians. I don't understand. And Adonis Georgiadis all speaks of them, and so on. So I must remind you that, although Milos was destroyed by the Athenians, the Athenians lost the war. I mean, you might beat the kid, but what's the matter with you is a whole story. So, with this eye reading the apple heroism, as well as what happened in Ancient Greece and drawing conclusions. Secondly, Minister, clear things. You are now withdrawing this amendment. I'm telling you this. First, you're mocking us, not you, the government. How do I prove it? On Wednesday we had a committee. The seven articles were already written and had already been to the General Accounting Office of the State, from which we have a report and may put a date today, that is, this morning he saw the General Accounting Office of the State Amendment seven articles and came to the astonishing conclusion that expenditure on the budget is being caused, but we do not know how much, and that will be seen by the real facts. Practically and grocery, you will receive every year what you are spending on refugee - immigration, you will take away the millions you have taken from the European Union and the rest will pay for the budget. Isn't that what you're saying? Do you not know, however, that one of the two funds of the European Union is forbidden to finance the Ministry of National Defence? You don't know that? That's the one. That's why I'm telling you, you knew and you're bringing it now. The second is that you are creating a new instrument. Don't laugh. It's the national coordinator. Watch out. The first article - you are already writing it - is advisable to have a permanent single representative body - nor is Mr Gerapitris bringing us this thing - which will have every right to everything. That is to say, we are talking about the Deputy Minister for the Refugee - Immigration, not to say that we are talking about the Prime Minister on the refugee - immigration. A person will decide for everything. Third and worst: Create a new armed body. That is why, Mr Buquoore, I told you that you have not read it. We come and read in the corresponding article that the ENPD has the following competences: firstly, taking steps to strengthen border surveillance and security, that is, it has the competence of the Armed Forces. Secondly, the carrying out of research and rescue operations on coordination and so on, i.e. it has the power of the port. Thirdly, checks and so on, that is to say, the responsibility of the police. And because someone can tell me "and what has happened, brother, etc.", the next article comes and says "for the staffing of the ENPRIS is seconded to it political and official staff of the Ministry of Civil Protection, National Defence and Shipping and Maritime Policy, by way of derogation from any other provision, by a joint decision of the Minister of Origin and the National Coordinator. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the case in democracy. That is why I tell you, Minister, for the last time, that you withdraw the amendment and throw it away. Not to drop her off so we can talk about her again, but throw her away. I do not understand what this amendment is aimed at but at militarisation within the Greek territory and at the borders of the Greek territory, if you wish, on the occasion of the refugee and immigration issues. In other words, we are taking the refugee and immigration issue, and in fact we are organising a super-arch, underneath it all the other leaders and with an armed body. It seems, Mr Stefani, that you have proposed this. I would advise you - you will do what you want - not accept it. It's common for politicians to say that a soldier is consumable. I tell you with friendly feelings and feelings of protection. Of course we will not vote on it, but we are discussing very seriously whether we will remain in the Chamber in relation to this amendment. That's why I'm telling you to withdraw her now. As far as the bill is concerned, I have a conviction. My conviction is that education, health and culture are the best defense of a people. Of course, and the strong economy, a multi-dimensional foreign policy, with strong alliances, have their special significance and, of course, the powerful Armed Forces. As Greece, we are always on the side of international law and we do not claim anything from any neighbour, but we do not even allow ourselves to claim from us any sovereign right. We do not tolerate any claim of what we have justly acquired with the blood of our ancestors. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So the bill gives us the opportunity to raise a number of issues, without secretly infringing the Ministry of National Defence and the Armed Forces, who undertake a heavy task so that Greek citizens are committed to their peaceful works, their Greek activities and - why not? - in their peaceful political conflicts. I would like to stress, however, on this occasion that the members of the Armed Forces, committed with soul and professionalism to their work, devoted to their homeland, to the freedom of our people and democracy, are what we call a power multiplier in the country's defence. Their education, education, high mentality helped the Armed Forces to stand up and capable of the time of the memorial and economic crisis. And we must remember this as a caregiver for the staff and as a replacement for the cut-off wage in the budget debate. For the defence of the country, however, everything is, first of all, a prediction and a plan. The prediction will set you the potential threat, its strength and the need to address them. The plan or more correctly the plans, the basic, the alternative, the some projects, as will be shaped by the staff and of course one of the most worthwhile leaderships of the Armed Forces, both to the General Staff of National Defence and to the General Staff of all the bodies, will define how personal it is needed, with which choice and training we will proceed, which armor and general defensive material is required, which will be allocated all of this, how it will be controlled and evaluated. You must take care of the national defence industry on the basis of the national defence industry strategy already in existence by the SYRIZA government, and strengthen so-called military diplomacy and alliances. This is how we worked as a government of SYRIZA - ANEL - The Greens, and we feel that we have done our duty. You are aware that we will vote for the rest of the bill and we will monitor the implementation of what is provided for in the bill. But for restoring historical truth I must say that what it contains is designs shaped by our government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u341	Finish it, Mr. Vitsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u342	I will not conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u343	Why? You've been over time for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u344	Because the government did not complete when it brought an amendment to seven articles. Seven articles are draft law. I need a minute more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u345	You'll have it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u346	I'm not hurting you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u347	No, no, to God!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u348	The F16 upgrade to Fighter, ratified by the Greek Parliament on our government and the Minister of State of Mr. Kammenos, comes. Here we are talking about the Accompanying Convention on Safety, Supply and Information, and it is what all of us must take care of and with our attention antennas. In the not too distant past, similar contracts have been used not for the benefit of the Armed Forces, but for personal enrichment of persons, politicians and businessmen. Of course, a bad past does not prejudge the future, but, in order to make sure that, one of the programmes in the House's Committee on Equipment and Conventions is required to come in, not only at the beginning of it, but also at certain regular intervals and at the end of it. This also applies to other programmes. I mean, more about the Mirages, less about the Navy. Likewise, I would like to stress that the DGEU and its Director have the responsibility of negotiating, under the direction of political and military leadership, but the House also has the opinion. These must come to the House too. Finally, the Minister and the Prime Minister have the final responsibility. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] In other words, I have to tell you this - and I am closing down with this - there is a periphery of atmosphere, ladies and gentlemen, and there is real tension in our relations with Turkey. This tension is trying to exploit patriots and warships voices, but also business interests in a hunt of armaments. We must not allow it. We are a powerful military force, with very powerful Armed Forces, we are not afraid of anyone, we have alliances, but I think we will agree that we can agree on our own, if necessary. But this is not the time of the irresistible cries. It is time for sobriety, determination and collapsing, based on International Law and our sovereign rights. Our people can and has the right to sleep calm and celebrate, of course, both Christmas and New Year's Eve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u349	Thank you very much. You've been a great misuse of goodness.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u350	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u351	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u352	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u353	You'll all talk. We'll take them in a row. The Deputy Minister, Mr Alkiviadis Stefanis, will speak first, whom we were sad to hear today. Do you want time, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u354	Oh, no. I'm gonna need a minimum of time to answer Mr. Vitsa for the single body.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u355	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u356	Thank you very much. I would like to say this: as far as the single market is concerned, we are not creating any new strength. Can we just imagine the operational landscape in the Aegean or in Evros? There are powers from different bodies, which forces are doing an excellent job. These powers, which they receive, take them through their hierarchical channels and end up in Athens. So, right now, what are we going to do? Let's go all this and combine it in the field so that we can be more direct. Going back a few years when we faced a natural disaster. In the natural disaster we found that different operators had potential and could not coordinate each other. So we built a National Center to deal with this. We did the same in the aerospace. We built a National Center. At the moment we have a national crisis, we have a very serious national issue and we have to deal with it. And we will deal with it, trying to group our capabilities together, so that we do not lose potential, because the same things happen twice and three times. That's what we're trying to do right now. Absolutely nothing will change. So the border guards still belong to the police. It's just that the coordination is going to be done by another. The port still belongs to the port. The coordination will be done by someone else. I would like to set an example.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u357	Minister, I want to ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u358	No, Mr. Vitsa. You were 12 minutes in the Step. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u359	Mr. Vitsa, let me finish. I will give an example, which through everyday life has appeared and now we are going to solve it within. It is an opportunity that would give us the opportunity to monitor the whole Aegean island immediately and in a timely manner. Has he been late? Of course, he's been late. What was the prediction? It was for August 2022. So right now, we're changing the whole design. We are doing a special priority, we are talking about Europe, so that we can have it earlier. There are many other issues and many institutions. You in particular, Minister, know better than anyone else that the different bodies are fully integrated. What are we going to do? Let's get a co-ordinator on it. It may not be me, whoever it is. I thank you for the advice, but I have learned to serve the country and I will do so in the best possible way. That's what we're trying to do. And we will, I am telling you, so that we can help the country move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u360	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u361	Mr President, I would like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u362	No, Mr. Vitsa. It's Mr. Janakopoulos. Tell Mr. Janakopoulos the question, so he can tell her. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Bukokoros, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u363	I am only formally speaking, although I am covered by the Rules of Procedure on the subject of staff invoking them. Politics will be my answer, because I am not used to personal controversy. I have to say, Mr Vitsa, that I was covered very much by the Minister, Mr Stefanis. Therefore, the approach of things may be different. There is no body of the only truth in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u364	Mr. Janakopoulos...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u365	Mr President, I request the floor,
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u366	Mr. Janakopoulos...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u367	Mr President, what you are doing is also wrong under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u368	It's a clear question Mr. Vitsats wants to ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u369	It's so simple.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u370	Mr. Vitsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u371	Mr. Stephanie, I'm afraid you don't understand what you're going to take over. Who gives the orders to whom? What if, in the same port crew, you and a different mandate are commanded by the Head of Port and Maritime? So that's why they show up every day, the bill says nothing like that. The bill says you're giving the orders. That is why I said that a new Parliament is being created through an amendment which comes two hours ago. I didn't say the refugee was militant. I said the country's life is being militarized in parts of the country. It's even heavier what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u372	You're welcome, Mr. Vitsa. You, Mr. Janakopoulou, are you covered?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u373	One answer, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u374	Of course he'll answer. He has to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u375	No, let my colleague also ask and answer one single question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u376	Sure, why not? That's right. Mr. Janakopoulos, you said thirty seconds, didn't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u377	Thirty seconds. Mr Vitsas explained very much what is being attempted or, in any case, what will happen if and if this amendment is voted in favour of the Greek Parliament. I don't know if you yourself have understood. I'm going to say that you probably haven't understood. Mr. Vitsats explained that since there are different angles and different commands on the part of the Heads of the other bodies, your mandate will prevail. This is the definition of the militarisation of the country's security forces. I don't know if you understand the size of what you're going to do. We are calling on you to withdraw the amendment immediately, given that the committee and the Minister and you have committed themselves that you do not intend to bring such a regulation to the current bill, which seems to be getting wider consent so far. Nevertheless, you are once again energising the process with this choice and not only are you dynamic but you are creating real risk conditions for the very conditions of the rule of law and democracy, which are unprecedented. Do not allow, Mr Ministers, to play a game of militarisation of the Hellenic Republic and especially on your own backs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u378	Minister, you have the floor for a minute, please, to facilitate the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u379	I shall refer first to the service part you say. This coordination is only done with regard to immigration. If there is another port mission at the same time, it is assumed that the other port mission will be followed. This to come out was after a broad debate and study of different scenarios and we ended up here. It's your estimate that the whole thing is being militant. Our assessment is that he's in order. There's absolutely nothing militant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u380	But it's self-proof, Minister! He doesn't need much thought.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u381	Parliamentary spokesman from the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u382	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to send you a message from the meeting of the National Foreign Policy Council on Tuesday, a message of national unity. In my experience, as the Deputy Minister who proposed to Parliament on behalf of the PASOK Government the creation of this institution in 2002, as a State Secretary for the first meetings under George Papandreou and then as a member of this National Council, so I was not a Minister, I had never felt such an offer of unity from the political forces of the country, from all that was there. The Communist Party does not participate with its own choice. Of all, I repeat. There was no place where it deviates from what the people need in these cases, namely the unity of their political forces. I would like to highlight the positive decision taken yesterday in the context of the European Union and underscore the interventions of the Prime Minister, the Chief of Police and the President of the Change Movement, Mrs Gennimata. Of course, Minister, when you take the floor, closing the sitting or, at any time, inform us of the sanctions. Because we in the European Socialist Party have proposed and recommended that sanctions should be imposed. The political conviction is good, but it's not enough. As we know very well, Turkey's condemnation of Cyprus's issues has been a full one on the part of the European Union to the highest level of political decision-making bodies, but Cyprus has undertaken to specialise sanctions. Months and sanctions don't exist yet. Therefore, the condemnation is positive, but we expect information on the type of sanctions that the European Union is considering to be imposed on Turkey for the pseudo-agreement, the invalid agreement signed with Libya's also pseudo-government. The statements made by the American Ambassador in Athens are positive because of the context and because of the timing it is also the United States' decision to recognise the Armenian genocide. But life comes to tell you that the political level in the international movement of organisations and international conferences on the issues of international law and international policy is good, but there are facts which, in violation of all legality, force you to take measures. Today, in the media, we read the Turkish Minister for Energy's statements that after New Year's Day in these false maritime areas, which this invalid agreement has written down, seismic investigations will take place. This statement, which gives a timetable for action, forces us all, beyond words, to look at the issues of action. Because, ladies and gentlemen, I am limiting myself to saying a phrase and I can say, at the National Foreign Policy Council, we have discussed a matter of diplomacy and defence at the same time, not just diplomacy. Because that's the way our country is dealing with today. Therefore, we must be ready for any kind of reaction political, diplomatic or other. These are the urgent issues that the country has, and it must be as quickly as possible to see the actions it must take on a diplomatic and defenceal level of deterrent. Ladies and gentlemen, here in this Chamber for four and a half years we have been listening to the Minister of Defence of the previous government threatening, putting variation suits, his reports on Turkey are bread, but he came in the first place with a press conference to tell us that equipment is being delayed. It is not wrong as far as F-16 is concerned, because there it was strongly criticised, but he also brought an amendment to it in the middle of a Committee on Foreign and Defence, which completed its work, surprised, framed the matter, came to plenary, the conflict was inevitable and went back a year. It is an urgent matter for the country to look at the issues of its armaments with principles of transparency and speed, however. If necessary, Mr Secretary, change of the institutional framework in order to achieve this, the House is here to listen to you. Because the information we have had for years - without reacting without reacting to the previous government in all your five months - is that many times the bureaucratic structure of the relevant procedures resulting from corruption, a bureaucratic structure resulting from the guarantee provisions contained in the legislation, creates delays that make the tenders incomplete. He has competitions without candidates. You have money and you don't have to give it. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u383	Since the beginning of 2018, there is a law. The GDR has him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u384	The law is from the beginning of 2018. Each one of us will say about himself. That's right, I agree. But he's not coming here. But we're here. The National Representation is present to listen to governments. Institutional equipment, ladies and gentlemen, is a prerequisite for the armaments programmes. If the country cannot absorb its own funds, then what are we talking about? We're back. Our institutional framework is delaying and specific changes need to be made. Obviously not all the changes that anyone could imagine, in violation of the principle of transparency, should be made. Those changes must be made to help our country. Now comes a draft law which, as I said, was framed by the bad relationship between the earlier leadership of the Ministry of Defence and the parliament. It's not the House's fault. I was present with Mr. Kegeroglu and Mr. Venizelos. We were sitting there. We have taken responsibility for a minister who was tearing us apart every day. The New Democracy pulled out its words above. And now, he's doing the same thing. I was here. I remember them like now. So this draft law comes with elements that were framed. We, we relate it to the conditions that our country is currently going through. If it was not Mr Kegeroglou's proposal to go to the Committee on Equipment, which is bound by the good functioning of the closed door in substance and does not leak, you would not have the Scientific Service of the House today, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, to tell you that since the House decided that a special meeting of the Committee on Equipment should be held, Article 1 is to be seen in the light of the information provided by the Committee on Military Programmes only. We have saved the issues referred to in Article 1 in the legal field with our intervention. As you have heard from our rapporteurs, our rapporteur, Mr Francis, but also Mr Kegeroglou, with his analysis, we say 'yes' to this draft law in principle and to his articles. But it's not enough to say we'll be watching you. That's what SYRIZA heard. 'We'll watch you.' So what? What's he going to say "we're going to watch you"? We will invite you every two months to inform us of the progress of these programmes, the upgrading of the F16 for Mirage and the other issues for which, on a very good initiative by the Chairman of the Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, we have been informed of the situation with details of the country's weapons. There are issues relating to our defence industry. Look, Minister, for four and a half years we have been putting here to the relevant Deputy Ministers in which responsibility had been transferred - it was Vitsas, Mr Kuvelis - the issues relating to the EAW, the EAW and the shipyards. Good intentions were recorded for four and a half years. We have achieved zero and have had all the amendments justifying the attitudes of your governments and your own on a dramatic situation in which the legal persons I mentioned are present. I remember, with what two ministers of the last government were telling us about the goodness of the Scaramaga shipyards under the special management regime with the approval of the European Union. The time has passed and it has been forced and the government has taken an amendment to give another year of extension if a solution is found for the shipyards. Everything's in the air. The responsibility, now, is burdening you. And every four years, responsibility is burdening someone else. However, we must have an image of things going and we will have a special debate by the Standing Committee on Defence and Foreign Affairs on this matter. I will close with the issues of the amendment that came at the last minute. I would like to ask: why are you afflicting this House? I also address the majority parliamentary representative. Why do you trouble the House? Why are you doing this? There is a consensus among the political forces - I think - five parties on the issues of the draft law which our country so needs, especially when combined with our defence industry, not only in the public sector but also in the private sector that the political forces must include in the spectrum of their political positions. It's not just the public. There are pioneer companies in the private sector. We don't throw them in the trash. Mercy. While there is agreement with various, you are suddenly bringing an amendment with too many topics. What can we say? Are you pursuing the disagreement? They were right to tell SYRIZA that you knew you'd bring it, after you had sent it to the State General Accounting Office this draft law. We're talking about the seven articles. What amendment are you saying? We're talking about a small draft law. Why didn't we have it in time to talk about it? The circumstances in which the country passes require everyone to think. The bombs Mr. Vitsas said leave me completely indifferent. I want to know, however, what each political force says. First, do we see the interconnection of the Greek-Turkish issues with the refugee, immigration? Anyone who doesn't see it doesn't want to see it, and he's blind with his own will. But we're not blind. We see. Did we see problems with the structure of the government, as the Prime Minister did, after the July elections? Yes, we did. We saw over-concentration at the Ministry of National Defence and deputy ministers with contradictory responsibilities. What about the national coordinator? We are not - I, at least, personally - opposed. And we know it's you. The fact that he can also be a member of the government... Aren't you the national coordinator? I ask you directly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u385	The Prime Minister will decide, not me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u386	Haven't you been designated?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u387	Please don't have a dialogue. We've been over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u388	I asked a question about my speech, Mr President. Let me answer a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u389	It is good to note and answer everything together. In any case, after you have taken the floor, answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u390	I accept the interruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u391	On October 23rd, it had been announced that I am the coordinator for transportation and relocation. Who will be a national coordinator, Mr President, will decide by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u392	Okay, then it's changing. Then we go to multi-faceted structures again and different structures. I thought this was about you and that the government is looking to help you carry out your duties. That's how I figured it out, and I found it positive. If you tell me now that it'll be you and someone else, I don't know. We're putting in a question. We don't have time to process it. We cannot say 'yes'. Of course, at the Single Border Surveillance Body, I am absolutely positive. Mrs Gennamata from this Step developed migration and refugee problem as a single topic. They come from Evros and not just from our maritime borders. He touched on it in the debate he had in the timely question he submitted to the Prime Minister. And she told him she was in the Diabetes and she was watching the flow with her eyes. There must be a single centre and a single border surveillance body. Sounds very positive. A positive signal is the derogating of any provision for the secondment of personnel, as well as the instrument for managing the refugee crisis in your own Ministry. But excuse me, will we vote for an amendment containing provisions involving costs when we do not know how much that costs? Don't put us in such a hard time, no. We will abstain because it is not possible with a General Accounting Report which records provisions at a cost that is not specified, the opposition will support you. How will she support it? I would like to conclude, Mr President, by saying this: it raises questions that the House must hear about the 2020 budget, which is directly related to this issue. I asked, Mr. Undersecretary, in the last debate of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on the 2020 budget, the then State Secretary at the time, Mr. Dollacakis, if he can give us a picture of Greece's expenditure on immigration, refugee year 2019 and he said no, he can't give us anything. My second question was: Does your budget for migration, refugees, for 2020? No, it was his answer. He can't even give me that clue, he doesn't have it. I ask him: Why don't you have 2019 data so you can make a forecast for 2020? He tells me: 'Cause in the relevant code, let's tell the hospitals, there's a zero amount. The Lesvos Hospital, she says, has zero with any immigration and staff problems she has. If the previous government didn't deal with this, will you leave it like this? We will go to the 2020 budget and we will not know what this problem costs us, to see what the flows from the European Union cover, and what the Greek citizen's pocket? And now you're bringing us a provision here for an entity at an undetermined cost? No, we cannot say 'yes' to such a regulation, although at political level and the general position we have given - the Greeks are linked to immigration, refugee - and our positive attitude to tackling it quickly. Thank you very much, Mr President. I hope the Undersecretary and the Minister will give appropriate answers when they take the floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u393	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-one students and two educational sessions from the 5th Grade of Zoographs. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Konstantinos Hetas has the floor from the Greek Solution. Please, everyone hold the time. We've gone a long way and not many people have spoken on the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u394	Thank you, Mr President. I hope you don't exhaust your rigour on me, even though I won't be using all the time. Minister, Chief, Deputy Minister, my General, I came to speak today on the F16 bill, because that is why I came and prepared myself as in every plenary session, but also in fact in a spirit of understanding and harmony on a matter that is important and serious. But you have still succeeded in a strange way, I will tell you, it is not a personal matter, I address the Government of course you are now representing it, with all due respect both to this House and to the government, you do not respect us. You don't respect us, unfortunately. You are bringing a very important issue, an important amendment. By reading it - I do not plunder nor exaggerate - I overthrowded what I see in and not in what is stated or predicted, but with some assumptions in here. Because we have come today and we are all asking for this consensus on important issues and you are putting at last a number of important issues and what you want with the difficulty or drag us behind the developments, or are you indifferent to the view of the rest of Parliament, of counter-population, and you are doing what you want. So our presence here is indifferent and unnecessary. We had this plan change once again. They said it before. So, the General Accounting Office of the State knew it, and today suddenly you brought it to us at five, not even at just five? Also, Mr. Undersecretary, believe me, no one questioned and questioned your offer forty-one years to the Armed Forces. And we're very proud of you. I want you to believe that. It's our philosophy, too, that I want you to understand that we mean it. But we want with the same respect to you locate us. I know you're in a difficult position, that what you're doing is not right, and I know you know that too. I want to highlight two - three things. I have the amendment in my hands. I won't say anything about the equipment and the upgrade of the F16. Unfortunately, I won't say anything. I'm putting it aside. It is a mistake, Minister, for the New Democracy and the Government of New Democracy what you are bringing today. Unfortunately, it's an admission of defeat and I'll explain why. You say here: "with unmanageable migration flows at the eastern borders of the country, in view of their volume and repeatability," and you say that "it has not been possible to deal directly and effectively with the situation and to provide humanitarian aid to the affected populations concerned with moral obligation, etc." You say that the local communities, which was the first project, did not succeed, because we had a change of plan. Minister, this is not an army. This is politics. The world voted for you because you said you had a plan, that you will now face illegal immigration. You come to power and show that you can't track it. Go to Plan B, Plan B: diffusion to local communities. You see you can't deal with this either. Go to Plan 3 and fourth plan and change plan again. And all of a sudden, you bring us this. And what does that say here? He says he's testing the limits, etc. It says that account has been taken of the country's already serious democratic deficit. National security is threatened, social stability and economic development. So you admit here today what we are calling here months, that with the illegal immigrants that Greece has filled and then open borders - rebets, unfortunately, we have, the social stability of the country, economic development and our national security. Since when has a country's national security been at risk from refugees and from babysitting? So those who get inside, 80 % and 90%, are obviously not refugees and babys. It's something else. Because it is said here - your amendment says it, not me, or Velopoulos - that national security is in danger. What can we say about that? You say below that "Greece has maintained its commitment. Development cooperation has responded to the commitments made to the European Union." What commitments are these? I don't understand them. Does the Greek people know what commitments these are? Did she vote for these commitments? At the same time, Greece mobilised resources from the pocket of the Greek citizen and its population, the local communities, namely, to provide support for applicants. Let's go down. It's not me, Minister. I'm not going to the national coordinator. For now, I was relieved to find out that he's Stephanis. Now you told us it wouldn't be you. Who will it be? That's why we told you before that you were building a Prime Minister's body, where the Prime Minister will choose who he is. And you're actually building "new Armed Forces". And he says below, Minister, in the fifth article, that the world should hear it, that this article defines the method of financing. In particular, the body will be financed by the State budget. In a bankrupt country that we fought five days here whether or not all the AMEs will get the subsidy, do we put from the state budget to make the nanny of illegal immigrants?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u395	And what do we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u396	What can we do? Not to put them in, Mr. Loverdo, close our borders, take them to uninhabited islands. I don't care what we do. That's what we do. These are our proposals. What are we gonna do? Will it become a Greek army, or will we create a new army to nurse illegal immigrants? Are we serious? The country's falling apart, don't you understand? And we run behind developments. We are now bringing an amendment that is so serious. I said one fifth of what this amendment provides for. And we bring her at night, at 90', at five and you want us to vote on it. How are we going to vote on it? These are so serious and you are trying and you have taken the floor twice. Why did you take him twice? To explain that the coordinator should be etc. So we have questions. Aren't these questions, as a democratic council here, to be a National Delegation to discuss them in committee? No time to listen to us, to hear our objections, to our questions, to say 'no, yes, perhaps, you are right, you are wrong', to guarantee all of this and to vote for it and to vote for it with both hands? But in the hideout, in the mussel, in the juicy? You don't respect us. You do not respect the Greeks, because we here represent Greek citizens. Minister with great respect, but with great pain I have said this today. I'm telling you again that I had written other things. I wanted to talk about equipment and upgrading F-16 with compassion indeed. On the one hand, you ask us to be together in the big and serious, but on the other hand, you treat us as paradoxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u397	Mr. Zisesis Gikalayas from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u398	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, the adequacy, reliability and effectiveness of our national defence depends on two factors: personnel and resources, military equipment. The staff are two counts. It is the active staff, the uniform, the gun-boat, the permanent officials - officers and officers of the productive schools or all the others who serve in the Armed Forces in various ways - but also the soldiers, the officers, those who serve their military service. On the other hand, it is the reserve, the rebels, the ones from all of us, from all of the people, and, if necessary, when it is necessary, both to the extent and to the extent and in the time that it will take, they will be invited to supplement the current servants. This staff depends on how it operates from three parameters. The first is moral and psychology, and the Armed Forces of the country have morals and psychology, but we have to take care of them over time, and that's a matter of education. It starts cultivating philosophies from home from school. National unity must be constantly forged. And this example we, the political forces of the country, are giving it first. When younger generations see us uniting in national issues, they will have increased moral and strong psychology. Secondly, education. Education must be such that all staff and what it serves, but also the reserve must be prepared in real scenarios. So, if need be, they're processed and delivered in the best possible way. Third, it's the arithmetic. The fact is that our Army and the Navy and the Air Force are numerically reduced and this is due, on the one hand, to the demographics that are sharp and, on the other, to the reduction in military service to nine months. Three things I suggest will be done, and we have examined them at our conferences before the elections. One thing is to look at whether the term of office should take place in eighteen years. A second point is to consider whether we need to increase military service and, in the first phase, to become twelve months. The third issue is in the context of gender equality if we need to think about the campaign of women in a voluntary phase and with bonuses, which may give rise to motives. We saw how much influence the motives played, for example, in recruitment for special guards, for stationed officers or those who had served in Special Forces. We now come to the media, to the military material, what we are discussing today with the bill we are working on mainly with the first three articles. The first two concerns the air fleet. The air gun plays an important role, the first role in the country's defence. Our planes are mostly the F-16. They are in different types: they are the F-16/30s, which we had purchased in the 1980s with the market of the century and we need to think about why it will not be worthwhile for many years yet. It's the F-16/50 and the third category, the most modern, it's the F-16- the eighty two we've got about, one-stop and two-stop - the Advanced and the 52 Plus C. It's what we're going to update with this bill to turn them from a third generation and bring them to the fourth generation. One thing comes up, though: Is that enough, or do we need to think about a new type of aircraft for the immediate future? Of the 280 million expenditure, 70% is positive that it will be exploited by the Greek Air Industry. I come to the second article on Mirage. They may say that planes must be the same type, but good in Greece the other type is French. We have another door open, and that seemed to be how important it was in the 1970s. Mirage F1 in intercept has played a decisive role. It's the plane our opponent doesn't know. They're the well-known delta wings. In the 1980s with the market of the century, we acquired the Mirage 2000 which have been shortened by accidents. This is a very important plane. It's the only launcher of Exoset's anti-array missiles. And I imagine that we are dealing with what we are going to do tomorrow, because there is no provision for modernising these aircraft. And they are the most modern Miraz 2005 that, over and above an amazing aircraft in the intercept, but with the possibility of bringing the substrategic weapons, the SCALP EG missiles give a great advantage in quality and not just confronting them. And the third article is about modernising our submarines. The good news is that the supply of material and equipment, the four submarines type TYPE 214 and the one of 209, which was modernised, at the moment Greece - and this is heard by everyone - has the most powerful conventional submarine in the world. Mr President, I will need a minute more than my time. To conclude, I would like to say that our country, the Greek state, arrived at the present border with the incorporation of the Dodecanese in 1946. In the 1950 ’ s and 1960 ’ s the other part of Hellenism, the Cypriots gave liberation struggle. That was when it was at stake if Greece would grow further, including Cyprus. They decided to have an independent country. It is a good thing at the moment that we have a nation with two states. It is a unique phenomenon even in the European Union of twenty-eight states. There is no other language you speak in two states. In 1974 we had the first loss of Greek territory, after losing 40% of Cyprus. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, as I have said. In the next few years, we had the crisis in March 1987 and reached the Imia in 1996, which then had three losses: first, national territory. The Imias were Greek and today may not be Turkish, but they are gray. So it's a loss. Secondly, we lost three officers, three people of the Armed Forces. And, thirdly, a helicopter that night. We're a peaceful nation and country. We don't want a war. In order not to have a war, our opponent must know that we have the ability and will, if we are provoked, if the red lines that we have set beforehand are broken, we will react, we will respond and we are determined to fight and we will win. And that is why I am voting for today's bill, because it is positive in this direction of deterrence and involvement with a positive result, if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u399	Thank you, too. Mr Georgios Vlachos has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u400	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for this important bill we are debating, I think our colleagues, our rapporteur, as well as our parliamentary representative, Mr Lazarides and Mr Bukoros, but also the political leadership of the Ministry of National Defence have fully documented the necessity, but also the way in which the armed systems are upgraded and how necessary these are for the country. It is something that is happening today and we will find it in front of us, because times are difficult and no one has to take action. So we are rewarding today's political leadership with this bill. I have asked to take the floor more to place myself on an amendment that has been tabled and is very important to my region, and I do not want to repeat anything else my colleagues have said about the bill. I begin by thanking the Minister, Mr Panayotopoulos, because he accepted an amendment in his bill - and I am speaking in particular of Amendment 126 with a special number of 3 - tabled by the Ministers, Mr Stavros and Mr Hatzidakis. It really gives a temporary solution, of course, as I will say below - to the Eastern Attica. What has been done here and what has been said in the amendment, because many Members will see it and will not understand it: it says that the examination of objections by the committees referred to in Article 7 of Law 2308/1995 is suspended until 30-4-2020 for property situated in the areas described in No 1151/1872 recently! - Decision of the Athens Court of Appeal No 116/1868, 698/1876 decisions of the Nafplio Court of Appeal, and Decision No 110/1878 of the Ice Authority, belonging to the Municipality of Laureate, Saronic of Attica. In other words, after almost two centuries - certainly one and a half centuries - we come here to discuss something that is self-evident for all citizens. What's happened there? In a controversy at that time, that is, a hundred and sixty years ago the public, with private individuals in summary procedures, and not to give the territory of the former mines of the former municipality of Laurent at that time, which was essentially the whole southern part of Attica, was described as a public area. So this public area is now invoking the register and comes to claim the property of our fellow citizens, because, yes - it says - they have changed their use - it does not disagree with this - but these areas have never ceased to belong to the public. And he sends the register here - if possible! - on the grounds of 1872's decision and calls on the owners to come to their trial, spending money, defending - what? - their homes lawfully built for sixty years, as in the case of Saronida, in a town plan. Why? Because it claims publicity in the 1872 decision. These days we have had constant avenges of people who had not understood anything and suddenly understood how they were in trouble, which, of course, so far - I must say - those who were elected have had negative results, but no one knows what decisions will be taken in the future or whether the State will reclaim these property, as it says in the papers sent 'the above areas are included in those which are owned by the Greek State, in accordance with the decision of the Court of Appeal No 1151/1872'. Other areas listed above are excluded.’ Since we do not know how things will be worked out, we have asked the Secretary-General of State, Mr Vésyropoulos, to have a regulation - and I would like to thank him publicly, because he has understood the problem at the very first moment, and has committed himself to bringing this regulation - which suspends these avenues, i.e. suspends the suffering of our fellow citizens, restores the self-evident, that our fellow citizens do not have to prove that their homes, which are legally built within a project, are theirs and do not belong to the public, as are other citizens in Laurent who have no homes - are outside of the plan, that they are rural areas - they do not have to prove that these property is theirs and are not the public. Instead of dealing with what has happened today and finally ending the Stock Exchange, the government is dealing with what happened in 1872, as if it has not observed what changes have taken place in the country since then. So this amendment comes in and is inhibiting the suffering of our fellow citizens and the State Secretary responsible has committed himself that during these four months we will bring legislation which will provide a definitive solution to this problem. For I have to say - to be fair here too - that this has come about two years ago, the Members of the then governmental majority, Members of the SYRIZA, have undertaken to bring the matter to the attention of them, of course they have not done nothing of course, and today we find it before us. We, therefore, because we operate a little differently - and I want to believe effectively - not only are we suspending, but we are committed to giving a definitive solution to something that society and citizens consider to be self-evident. And in any case, they cannot understand that the Greek State and the Land register have no more serious issues to deal with than to claim property on the basis of a law two centuries ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u401	Thank you, too. Mrs Brysidou has the floor from New Democracy and beautiful Kosani. I was then asked by Mr. Villardos to speak. However, because I gave my word to Mr Anastasiades that I will follow the order, you will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u402	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u403	Be well! Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u404	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today the draft law of the Ministry of Defence is being passed after a thorough processing and brings in laws which will give the axes and rules so that important operational issues of the Ministry of Defence can be resolved. However, symptomaticly the bill comes at a time when major issues with the neighbouring country exist, which, beyond its permanent threats, puts plans, reasons and projects in conflict with national interests. At this point in time we must all give our fight. And we are given the opportunity today to do so, Members from the Step of Parliament to present our views, the Prime Minister at international level gives his own struggle, the sticks with the unity and the message of unity which they give in all directions, as demonstrated by the positions of committees, and I believe that this will also be the case during the vote on the bill, the message will be given and there will be a positive result. At the same time, it is positive that this bill is being discussed, because it seems that there is an organization in the Ministry of Defence, that our country is strong and, of course, if there are some malfunctions or some issues which have not been resolved for many years, the current government is determined and the relevant ministry - which is why it has been put to the vote today - to put an end to the problems and organised to overcome any difficulties, so that our Ministry and the defence of the country are truly organised. The first article refers to the upgrading and modernisation of F16. An important consideration comes after the transnational agreement with the United States of America, where, apart from modernising them, 70% of the cost of this programme will employ the Greek Air Industry, that is, from our country. What does that mean? That money will fall in this sector that is important for Greece, it will also be possible for the industry to stand on its feet, to modernise, to pay for materials, debts and workers, to get new workers and, of course, through this process, to ensure that certain areas of the organization of the country's equipment, which is a very great advantage for national interests. The second article refers to Mirage, whose support with an agreement continues over the next seven years. It is also a very important chapter because it gives a strong boost to the equipment of the country, strengthens us and makes us a country that can be strong and secure, a country that can enjoy peace, because only when you are strong can you hope and can consolidate peace in your country. The third article refers to the maintenance of submarines, with the successful agreement with the company that had undertaken the materials and the maintenance of submarines, which it had been pulling through judicial procedures for years. We have proceeded with a very good agreement, which will also bring economic benefits to our country, but above all it will help us and will lead us to rapid and efficient maintenance of our equipment as well. I think that the Ministry of Defence is very serious and responsible in dealing with all areas, but also with staff, such as long-term volunteers, the SPOs, who are the people of the army, have been working for years with morality, offering, with the presence of significant. We believe that they should be given the opportunity to develop and upgrade, because this strengthens the Ministry of National Defence, strengthens the workers, motivates them, and we can have the best possible result from such an action and effort. I would also like to mention the military hospitals, which have offered too much over time not only to the military, but also to many other citizens. All this work and the examinations they have given over all these years make it necessary to support the payment of materials and services, because there are due obligations to be repaid. And there is certainly a need for care from the Ministry of Health that some of the money that the EEA owes to military hospitals should be given, because we need it for the whole country. It concerns the issue of health as a whole of the citizens of the country, but I think it also marks many other important things to have organised and powerful military hospitals. In conclusion, I should like to refer to the amendment that has come to the end. There is no citizen, there is no Member who does not understand how important immigration is, how much it concerns the citizens and the whole of the country. It's the government's responsibility. When you want to solve a problem, you create an independent structure, an organisation that has nothing to do with other tasks, so that you can concentrate on that role, with the supervision of the Prime Minister, in order to achieve that. We are not interested in discussing the details. We are interested in the message of the country and of the citizens who have reached the ears of the Prime Minister, who is caring for and will give a solution. We need a solution for our country, for our country. Immigration is a big chapter related to the Ministry of Defence because of the neighbouring country. That is why I think it should be voted in favour of a real result, as we hope and as it suits us as a country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u405	Thank you, too. Mr Savvas Anastasiades has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u406	Thank you very much, Mr President. I cannot say, ladies and gentlemen, that I am not referring to and not condemning Mrs Kasimatti's post and SYRIZA's attitude to 'bottoms, pigs and murderers'. Despite the apologies he has asked for, this is a shame for people who, at the risk of their lives, are caring for our safety. I shall also refer to two important developments that we have had in the last few days and I will welcome them. I refer to the decision by the United States Senate's Committee on International Relations to impose sanctions on Turkey, but also on the United States Senate's decision to accept the resolution of the House of Representatives unanimously and to recognise the Armenian genocide. This is a very important development for our country, because the genocide of the Greeks and Christian populations of the East is clearly mentioned in this resolution. These two developments show in the best way how bad relations are at present in the US. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going through a period of time in which, apart from the verbal tension and intensification of Turkey's political practice, we are seeing, on the side of the neighbour and obvious violations of international law. The provocative falsification with the Government of Tripoli, the rhetoric of threats, the most obvious claim of our national sovereign rights, the statements about a blue country, the increased intensity in the Aegean Sea and the constant breaches of Greece's airspace, increased migratory flows make it necessary more than ever for our national homogeneity and defensive armour. The Eastern Mediterranean enters the center of instability and escalating tension, which also affects our country. All of this is due and we must deal with it with unity, sobriety, calm, preparedness and determination. And that's what we do. The internationalisation of the problem relating to Turkey's ongoing provocativeness, which Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has successfully promoted, the development of strong alliances and relations with our other neighbours, such as Egypt and Israel, and our military preparedness are the framework of our national strategy. A flagrant demonstration of the success of the internationalisation of the issue is yesterday's communication from the Council of the European Union which unanimously condemns the Turkey- Libya agreement and expresses its solidarity with Greece and Cyprus, as is the United States and Russia. It must be made clear in every direction that the Greek Armed Forces are both worthwhile and ready at all times to prevent anyone and whenever they think to attempt against our national sovereignty. The Greeks are a people of peace, of respect for international law, but a people who demand respect, a people who, when they need united, neglecting any differences and difficulties they have, as a fist gives their lives for their homeland. And today, in this Chamber, during the debate of this bill, this spirit must dominate. The consensual climate, the spirit of unity must give a clear message that as Greeks we do not play with our defensive armour. The deterrent power of the Armed Forces was and will be maintained at the highest level. So anyone who has in the back of his mind insulting our national sovereignty must think about it very well before he attempts to do so. Our country as a political staff and as a state, despite its disagreements, ideological differences and different approaches, has been created and continued. I am thinking both of the F-16 upgrade programme and of the support of Mirage and the wells. Negotiations and discussions initiated by previous governments may have been delayed, they may have had gaps, but today they are being completed and we will proceed. And it is an irrevocable decision of the Government to proceed, as it was made characteristicly by the present Minister of National Defence, on the first day of the meeting in committee, with the words "I will go on upgrading even if they take me into examination". All the articles of the bill were developed, discussed and justified in detail and adequately justified by the present ministers - Minister and State Secretary for Defence - and by our rapporteur, Mr Lazarides. There is therefore no need for me to go into the individual issues. But I am taking this opportunity, Minister, and on the occasion of today's debate, which has coincided with everything that is going on in our wider region, to say that I agree with Mr Evripidis Stylianides, who spoke the day before yesterday in a radio interview, that it is time for us to motivate ourselves to go to eighteen years. It is a model that has been followed by other countries successfully, and I think we need to take it seriously too. We also need to open up the debate on the purchase of sophisticated weapons systems, such as F-35, to strengthen our deterrent power in the Aegean and further shield our defence. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greeks can trust our Armed Forces and feel safe under the umbrella that our spiritual potential provides with its proper training and our weapon systems. We, as guardians and representatives of the nation, have to stand up to the circumstances and do our best for the safety of our country which is unnegotiable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u407	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-five students and students and four educational attendants from the Private Gymnasium of the Contemporary School of Athens Trikala. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] He asked for the floor, Mr. Undersecretary, because he's in a hurry to leave. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u408	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have to go because I'm flying for Evros, where there I have to do a piece of my work. I would like to say a few things about what has been heard so far. The first thing I want to say is that the measures have been announced throughout Greece since 20 November. What were these measures? It was five plus one meters. What were the five plus one meters? The first measure was unaccompanied. Did the government do something about the unaccompanied? Of course, he has appointed a national coordinator and the plan has already been launched. Children have begun to be transferred to Athens. What was the second project we announced? Non-governmental organizations. Have we done anything about it? Of course we have. There's a frame out there. At the moment, four hundred ninety-seven non-governmental organisations have started and are declared to the Ministry of Civil Protection and those that are not declared are controlled. The third measure was asylum and refunds. Have we done something there? Of course we have. The new law was passed. Five hundred people are hired to support the services. The fourth is the structures. Has something happened there? Of course it's done. We're trying to free the world from the islands. The fifth measure is the compensation: EUR 500 million has been transferred to the relevant Ministry in order to stimulate local society. And we come to the plus one metre. We have said sealing the borders with the creation of a single body. So today is the time when we are creating this single body. I want to formulate a few reflections, speaking in a tough language and telling the truth. Is the country facing a problem right now? Yes, of course he does. Is that the immigration issue, national security? Of course it is a matter of national security. Is this a national crisis? Of course it's a national crisis. Are our fellow citizens concerned? Of course our fellow citizens are concerned. Have structures been created to manage the migration system and this whole system ended up in order to have Moria's college and not just? Yeah, that's right. I think that the issues raised are perhaps - I say with great attention the word - hypocritically. The main question is: do we want to help the country get out of this situation? We have created a problem over the last four years, and now we are blaming others, namely the ones we are trying to solve. I assure you that we are working too hard to solve it and we will resolve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u409	Thank you, too. Parliamentary spokesman from the Greek Solution, Mr. Vassiliou Villardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u410	Thank you very much, Mr President. Four hundred ninety-seven NGOs you said. It really surprised me. Furthermore, we know that OLAF has some NGOs in Greece. We would like to know, if you can, the results. In this respect, we are pleased to note that a bill aimed at defending the country's defence, including through the re-enactment of our national defence industry, is to be passed. It is, of course, too late, since we should have taken our measures a long time ago, knowing the dangers in our region, but unfortunately that is the reality and does not change. We must, however, have our own war industry and self-defendering power. It is something that has proved salutary in the past, but also in the younger years, with the establishment of ELVO in 1972, of EAB in 1975 and of EBO in 1977, following the tragedy of Cyprus, in conjunction with our shipyards, which are unfortunately decommissioned, with the military maintenance units and the many successful private companies. It is at least a hundred and twenty according to the Association of Greek Defence Material Manufacturers. In addition, it employs tens of thousands of five hundred employees, while many of them are fully exportable. For example, as far as the equipment is concerned, it is Turkey that has developed a very worthwhile domestic defence industry, Drones, aggressive helicopters, electronics, fryers and armored ones. Now, despite the country's huge economic problems, it is considered that the Turkish army can cope with its war activities without the help of foreigners. I'll file a similar post in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In total, over the last fifteen years, Turkey has spent over 60 billion on six hundred projects for developing domestic defence systems. I'm also tabling it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The production capacity of the defence industry is alleged to exceed $6 billion a year from $1.3 billion in 2002, while the budget for the only R & D project amounts to over 1,3 billion dollars. In addition, the share of the domestic defence industry from 20% in 2002 has increased to 65%. At the same time, Turkey's export capacity reaches $2 billion a year from virtually zero in the 1990s and just $248 million in 2002. Therefore, they also contribute to the country's economy, while supporting the creation of a sphere of influence, especially in Asia, where Turkey has started exports and co-productions with Pakistan. I'm filing it in the Minutes. It's a graph. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Viliardos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned graph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In any case, our armaments expenditure must be adapted to the real needs and potential of the Greek economy, cease buying unnecessarily or expensive systems, in the hope that the countries that sell them to us will protect us if necessary. We should note here that, although 68% of our armaments expenditure between 2013 and 2017, in the midst of the cuts, the memoranda were brought to German companies, the German state was not better dealt with while it was always Turkey's ally. It has 68% of all our programmes and only 10% of France, which is our best ally. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We must also note that historical experience teaches that whenever an aggressive state is curtailed rather than prevented, the end result is an armed military conflict, in which the weak state never guarantees allies, since they have no benefit from this. In particular, as far as Turkey is concerned, if Greece continues not to adopt red lines, giving the impression that it will not defend its borders, it will lead to a hot episode which, unfortunately, itself will cause with the irrational behaviour of its governments. As far as this bill is concerned, Article 1 on the F-16 modernisation and upgrading agreement, noting that it has begun with the landing of the first aircraft to be upgraded to Tanagra, states the following as to the level of expenditure. Firstly, it does not refer to the final cost either in the bill or in the report of the General Accounting Office of the State. According to reports, the cost is $ 996.775.000 for eighty-eight aircraft at F-16V or Block 70 level. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll take the time of my dentistry, Mr. President. Please confirm that, because they had initially shown higher amounts of up to 1,62 billion dollars. If, indeed, the lowest price actually applies, how did the 40% reduction come about? Maybe at the expense of quality? I'm filing it in the Minutes. Secondly, out of the total cost of $279.70,000 is for the benefit of the Ministry of Defence and the Greek defence industry, i.e. the percentage of domestic participation is 28%, if we calculate correctly. But it usually takes at least 35%, and Turkey has always sought 65% and many times it does. Thirdly, is ODA adequately prepared on the staff facilities and procedures for the efficient management of the project? In this regard, the Vice-President of the 'LOCHEED MARTIN' for Europe, the Middle East and Africa, Mr Plassas expressed concerns in September about the preparedness of ODA to take over the project. I also put it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes this article, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Fourthly, according to last year's reports, the delivery of the first upgraded aircraft was expected at this time, if we are not mistaken, in December 2019. Has the program been delayed, and if so, why? This report states that the programme will be completed on 30 June 2027, in other words after eight years. Does that date apply or will it be postponed by one year? I also put it in the Minutes. Fifthly, is the administrative structure of ODA able to carry out the project without any additional public burden? We are talking here about the Court of Auditors' report of June 2019, where there are a number of shortcomings in the procedures for the registration and clearing of overdue obligations. It is noted that the findings of the General Inspector for Public Administration in 2013 also identified a number of mismanagement phenomena that cumulatively damaged the State by a billion euro between 2002 and 2012. Sixth, does the EAW have the financial means necessary to carry out the project? In the financial statements of 2018, it is noted that incomplete financing leads to a decrease in its turnover and an increase in losses. Its turnover in 2018 amounted to EUR 50,2 million, with losses after tax of 39,5 million, and had a negative net position at 31-12-2018 of EUR 177,5 million. So do you intend to increase capital or any other financial support? If so, what height and how will it be covered? Finally, we would like to stress that we are in favour of the operation of the Scaramaga shipyard and of re-activating them under public control so that they can also support the development of our economy through the creation of a strong maritime complex. We note that the Scaramaga shipyards are a national chapter with the large stone tank they have, the largest one in the Mediterranean, which can have important repair work, and it is an apple of shame for many buyers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u411	Thank you, too. Mr Nikolaos Manolakos from New Democracy, then asked for Mrs Fotini Bakadima to speak, the Parliamentary Representative from Mera25. She wants Mrs. Sakorafa President. Mr. Manolak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u412	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill we have been waiting for this for a long time, because, among other things, it concerns the operational preparedness of the Armed Forces, which will enable them to carry out the task of defending our country. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] The provisions of the draft law ensure basic and key operational requirements of the Air Force and the Navy. After all, I can assure you that the needs that are coming to meet the Ministry of Defence were several years ago. However, today more than ever, the need to vote for the bill by everyone is imperative and imperative. There is no doubt that in recent months we have been facing an unprecedented outbreak of Turkish provocation. Turkey's relationship with international law for years has been deeply selective and peculiar. It invokes it in theory, when and whenever it suits it and despises it practically and challengingly, when and whenever it suits it. With its review policy, therefore, it constantly calls into question the international status of the Losani Treaty and calls into question the Cypriot EEZ and takes illegal action, trying to create the Aegean Sea and the Eastern Mediterranean. A crown of provocativeness is the so-called 'consensus memorial', which it signed with Libya on the issues of the maritime borders of the two countries. Although the agreement with Libya does not produce legal effects, does it give them the support they are looking for to justify their involvement and exit into the Mediterranean? So let us not be surprised, when, as they have said, they send research vessels with accompanying warships to the region. In this case we have to be ready in all respects, and the meaning of the term. Our responsibility towards our country and our descendants is great and we have no right to oligopoly. So I urge you to stand up to the circumstances and strengthen that super-arm that occurs in the name of unity and determination. On matters as serious as nationalities, unity and cooperation between political forces must be seen as self-evident. Our government, in seriousness, but also speedily, plans and acts. In order to win the lost time abroad, the Prime Minister, in giving an unprecedented diplomatic battle at the summit, asked and received the full and unanimous support of the European Council in Greece and Cyprus. In the interior he tries to build a stiff front against Turkish provocativeness, the strongest, in my opinion, weapon in the patron of Greek diplomacy. At the same time as the draft legislation under way, both our Air Force and the programme of F-16 and Mirage and our Navy with the submarine program are becoming stronger. Our combat capacity is increasing. The morality of our country's defenders rises and anyone who is in charge of our sovereign rights gets the message. Ladies and gentlemen, what needs to be immediately understood is that power is the dominant currency in international relations. We are all aware that Turkey is not joking. Thucydides said two and a half thousand years ago that no state can be held free unless it is as strong as his neighbor. I am sure this bill is the first legislative intervention, Minister, in the great fight to upgrade and strengthen the Armed Forces. But we mustn't stop here. We must further support the country's only guarantees of stability and security, the personnel of the Armed Forces, who, in the ten-year period of crisis, have managed - in honor - to fight each day, struggling and with personal sacrifices to be held at a worthy operational level. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the immediate strengthening of the Armed Forces through a fully targeted armament programme and the simultaneous revitalization of our defence industry are a one-way road and are the best possible response to Turkey's review. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u413	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 Mr Bakadima has the floor for twelve minutes now. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u414	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today and which is introduced by the Ministry of Defence, is entitled "Confidentiality Regulations of the Ministry of National Defence" and, among other things, contains the contracts for upgrading our Air Force F-16 and Mirage fleet and with this, you will allow me to begin my position. As MERA25, we are against the war - as I imagine all of us - and we may even have reached the point of proposing the abolition of the army. However, we could not be so out of reality that we could propose something like this now that things are so sensitive, that Turkey's provocativeness is growing every day and more and when a common national front needs to be created, which will stop all hostile thoughts from our neighbour, defending both international and national law. Our thoughts on our country's international relations were illustrated in detail and in our election programme. Let me outline them very briefly here too. Our policy regarding our country's position in the world brings together the tradition and axes which have been analysed in our founding declaration, which mentions, among other things, our vision of a Greece and a Europe, firstly, peaceful, which deviates tensions, highlights social culture as a geopolitical tool for resolving disputes and acts as an impediment to the forces of destabilisation, the tendencies of expansion and all kinds of mutilation on European soil, as well as the sirens of militaristic solutions. A Europe open, because it knows that the walls, wires and fences on the border do not match proud peoples with confidence and dignity. Social, recognising that the culture of a society is reflected in the way it faces its weakest members, the other, the different. The ecological objective of its external policy is respect for the ecosystems of the world, the protection of biodiversity and the global transition to green forms of transport and production. Decentralised and pluralist, a Greece and a Europe of regions, ethnicities, different philosophical beliefs, different languages and cultures, self-determination of individuals and groups. These concepts are the pillars of foreign policy that we are proposing. First of all, we never identify governments with peoples and always face governments that are authoritarian and aggressive by attacking friendship with their peoples, while trying to strengthen the democratic progressive movements of these countries, while at the same time weakening the regimes and governments that threaten both these peoples and Greece. In addition, we recognise the right to self-determination and self-determination in all communities and state entities across Europe, separating this right from all kinds of perpetrators at risk of peace and good neighbourly relations. In particular, with regard to the Greek-Turkish relations, like those in the wider region of the Eastern Mediterranean, by acknowledging that, over time, Turkish regimes have always created artificial tensions for distraction, a strategy that President Erdogan has implemented and continues to implement, we believe - as all of us believe - that it is necessary to always show coolness and not in any case respond to the challenges of our neighbouring country. At the same time, we must avoid nourishing the Turkish nationalism that manages to entangle large masses of the people at the expense of both theirs and Greece. MERA25's position is that everything that makes it difficult for the Turkish democrats to damage Greece and everything that facilitates their action is beneficial to us. As MERA25, we consider our country's commitment to the tank of Israel and the American multinational oil companies to be equally absurd and dangerous, while we are vertically opposed to the extraction and coexistence of hydrocarbons in the Eastern Mediterranean, the Aegean, the Cretan or the Ionian Sea. The future requires an immediate end to dependence on fossil fuels, while the collection of hydrocarbons with problematic regimes would further increase geopolitical tensions in the region at the expense of our national interests. Even if there are indeed sufficient deposits of oil and gas in the area, their extraction would damage us many times. Apart from maximizing geopolitical tensions, it would create a glorious field for the Greek and foreign oligarchy, which would see to it that the lion's share of what American multinationals of course would leave. Furthermore, it would be more inclined to give credit to creditors who would require the immediate repayment of their loans. Furthermore, it would have had an impact on the environment and on the delay of our rehab from fossil fuels, a rehab that is a cornerstone and our 'Green Transfer' programme. Now, on the point of defensive spending, it is that in the area where the country's defence is located it is a vital issue. However, it is equally vital that the country's defence against the devastation- threatening debt and that does not allow the annual expenditure of 2% of GDP on defence to be maintained. At the same time, the level of defence expenditure should be determined by parameters such as the desired result, the prevailing geopolitical conditions in this period and, of course, the country's economic potential. At the same time, we consider it necessary to strengthen the role of the European Defence Agency and other structures. It is also necessary to create a common defence policy for the countries of the European Union with a corresponding prediction of its implementation, and we also propose the responsible government disobedience, namely the smart use of the veto we have in the European Union and NATO, as long as the Great Powers refuse to guarantee the country's borders. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot remain compelled in the account that our country's alliance with multinational Netanyahu and Sisi oil, under the vigilance of President Trump, would make it some kind of energy hub, gaining the protection of the USA and Israel from Turkey and its potential threats. As we have seen, this strategy has not been fruitful and, as a result, we are proposing the following steps: Firstly, it must be understood that it is not possible to associate both with the United States and with Brussels, when the American President has said that the European Union is a strategic opponent of the United States. Secondly, we must draw up a Greek foreign policy at last. Thirdly, we should exercise the right to veto NATO against all those decisions that undermine peace in the region. Fourthly, we have a sacred obligation to promote positions in favour of the Kurds in northern Syria in the Council of Europe. Fifthly, we should abolish all the co-existence agreements in the Eastern Mediterranean concluded with Israel and Egypt and oil companies and organise an international conference in Athens on 'Green Transfer' in the Eastern Mediterranean region as soon as possible. Sixthly, we can help as long as we can identify - finally - the State of Palestine. Seventhly, we should send a strong message of peace and cooperation to all the democrats who live in Turkey and stimulate the ties with them. Ladies and gentlemen, if we were to proceed with all these steps, our country could, on the one hand, not have the need for an army, for equipment and equipment and, on the other hand, be able to use the amount to be spent on upgrading the F-16 and Mirages to stimulate the real economy and improve the indicators of the Greek economy. However, we cannot at the same time recognise that the Erdogan regime is becoming more and more dangerous, as every day it is weakened, instability and weakening that will lead the President of Turkey to take every opportunity to deepen relations with Greece, so that he too can use it in order to disorientate his people from the economic crisis and from the totalitarianism of his regime. And the more he loses his sovereignty inside, the more dangerous his foreign policy will be, and that is why we must be prepared for Turkish provocation, which can be manifested in the form of hot and medium-intensive episodes and challenges with entry into the airspace and our territorial waters, which - as I have said before - must go hand in hand with the necessary temperament and constant steps to show that we are a national front that will stand back against any possible Turkish hostility. In the light of all the above, although the use of funds, which do not exist in such an anaemic economy as the Greek one, could be considered against our ideology, we can only be cautious when we are in a period of geopolitical instability, which will require surgical and decisive moves to return to the necessary stability. You will allow me to close by making a very brief reference to one of the four amendments tabled by the Ministry of Defence. We see that the first article creates the position of the national coordinator who will be placed by a joint decision of the Prime Minister and the co-legislator and his responsibilities may also be entrusted to a State Secretary, so it may well be the State Secretary for Defence, which does not exclude this amendment. In essence, with the powers conferred on it, anyone who takes up the position of the national coordinator must also coordinate all aspects of the refugee. The second article creates the Single Border Surveillance Body, which will, in essence, guard our borders from the enemies, which, apparently, are not other than immigrants. It takes steps to strengthen border surveillance and security, to carry out search and rescue operations, to carry out controls and so on. In the third article we see staffing. It concerns the staffing of this new body that can be filled with secondments. One question, which I would like to have an answer from you, Mr Minister, is whether they will be subject to this body and the short-term border guards, which were voted on three days before the bill. In conclusion, once again, there is, unfortunately, also an amendment that calls for intolerance, intolerance and abusive racism which governs the government's political planning. We started with the Asylum Act, we had an incorporation of a directive that has not yet come to Parliament and concerned the apprenticeships of people from third countries, particularly those brought by the Ministry of Civil Protection and concerned apprenticeship, rather than the Ministry of Education, and today's amendment. I think the actions speak for themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u415	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Bogdanos now has the floor from New Democracy and immediately after Mr Dermenzopoulou, also from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u416	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Member referred to it - without suggesting it, but also the reference is important - even to abolishing the army. Let us be clear: Without its Army Greece, namely the State of the Hellenic Republic as we know it today, would simply not exist. It is the army, that is, the organized martial virtue of the Greek militant and officer formed by the state in a campaign machine, but also of peace offering, which allowed our country to exist, grow, defend, survive, inspire and repress with the good works of peace, preparedness and democracy. We therefore have the honour today - because it is a honour - to discuss a bill on the regulation of the important and urgent matters of competence of the Ministry of National Defence, a bill which guarantees, among other things, conditions for the strengthening of our Armed Forces, for the realistic and well-prepared preparation of which is worthy of congratulations to the Minister Nikolaos Panayiotopoulos, but also to the rapporteur, also MEP Kavala, Mr Garylos Lazaridis. Besides, the juncture in which we are discussing this bill underlines our need for our care for the Armed Forces to be lasting and decisive. And this undeniable need is served by the government on this initiative. Among the forecasts of the bill are modernised and upgraded, as the Greek Air Industry, F-16 Block 52 Plus, F-16 Block 52 Plus Advanced, is regenerated through this process, so that the deadly backbone of our Air Force belongs hereafter to a new category of combat aircraft. At the same time, it is guaranteed - and I will simply say without being extended, because it would be better not to happen - after a scandalous delay to support the quality of the admirable multiplier that is 'Mirage 2000' and 'Mirage 2000-5', ensuring - that the old ones in relation to the supply from Turkey of 'F-35' - a medium-term air-power management balance in the Aegean. At the same time, it is definitively arranged to modernise the submarine class "GLAYKOS" 209, further strengthening the capacity of submarine war - ace in the War Navy sleeve - in the Aegean Sea and the Eastern Mediterranean, especially in the face of the neighbour's shipbuilding zeal. At the same time, among other things, arrangements are being promoted concerning officials of the Armed Forces, civilian staff, unfinished military hospitals and, of course, the Monitorage Fund Foundation. Of course, other interventions are needed. The Armed Forces have a need from a new generation of rifles and a new national military vehicle to new warships and weapons for the Navy and from unmanned flying means, an area in which the neighbor is not allowed to gain an advantage - and we are not only talking quantitatively, we are mostly talking qualitatively here - until new anti-aircraft capabilities and an integrated system of interconnectivity of aircraft, terrestrial and naval instruments, a necessary treaty that is effective in the modern field. Of course, wrongly lying, we must rethink matters of the length of service, but perhaps even of a woman's army. This does not, of course, detract from the value of this bill, whose predictions actually strengthen the Armed Forces, so that they can protect our sovereign rights and national law. And to this end, it is good that, despite rhetorical differences that meet the needs of addressing different political audiences and parties as well, the democratic political forces of the place seem to agree now, as they do over time, that deterrent capacity is a key factor of power and a prerequisite for national security, independence and integrity. It is also very good that during the recent committee meetings the will of the Government of New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis was emphatically underlined - this is a personal seal - for absolute transparency in issues that have been the subject of corruption in the past. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Armed Forces with their commendable social work and the vigilance of the countryside is a guarantor of our own democracy, because it ensures stability. Also, however, Greece is a unique case of a European and naval country under such a direct and real threat. In Greece, in the dilemma 'butter or cannon', the answer is 'without cannons, butter in this corner of the world there is no'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. And if our country is a time-consuming champion in the material care for its defence, this is due to the fact that it is in a turbulent area, with nervous neighbours and firmly confronted with a review, regional and Asian giant, which we are always the barrier to the west. It is a historic fate, dear and dear, that we have learned that we will always face the critical hour alone. But it gives us the pride of a glorious younger story. Within the crisis of the last decade the Armed Forces were tested in an unprecedented way in our post-government period. They have, however, dealt mainly with the perseverance, inventivity, ingenuity, devotion mainly to their executives. Now, today, it begins the great reconstruction we need. It is important that the European Parliament should be involved in the work of the European Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u417	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Dermenzopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u418	Ladies and gentlemen, at a time when Turkish challenging in the Aegean, Cyprus and the Eastern Mediterranean is escalating at a rapid pace, it is a duty of the country's political system to take the necessary steps to decisively strengthen the deterrent capacity of the Armed Forces. In this light, the Ministry of Defence presents to the vote a bill which regulates urgent issues relating to the operational preparedness of the country's Armed Forces, while at the same time solving career problems that employ a large part of the military personnel. More specifically, the provisions of the draft law concerning the approval of the upgrading of both Greek F-16 to the Fighter version and the agreement on continuing support for particularly important aircraft Mirage 2000 and Mirage 2005 provide solutions to the pressing, operational needs of our Hellenic Air Force, while at the same time ensuring its quality superiority towards the respective Turkish. In the same direction, the ratification of the agreement with the construction companies "ThyssenKrupp Marine Systems" and "Greek Shipyards S.A." is being initiated to provide the extra support materials for modern submarines type 214, which are the top of the spear of our Navy. It should be understandable to all of us that the expenditure paid to enhance the deterrent capacity of the Armed Forces is a multiplier of the country's diplomatic capital, as it allows the respective political leadership of the place to come to the talks with the other side of power and not of weakness. In addition to the articles of the bill relating to our armaments needs, it is of paramount importance that the interventions relating to the strengthening of the country's defence industry are also of the utmost importance. Both the regulation on the extension of the granting of tax and insurance information to the Hellenic Defence Systems and the guarantee of a significant construction project by upgrading the F-16 in the EAA are initiatives in the right direction. However, Minister, as you know, there is still much to be done. Unfortunately, we have not shown sufficient attention over time to the strengthening and development of this industry for our country. The development of a healthy and extroverted defence industry will not only have a beneficial effect on the country's defence armour, but can also have a proliferational effect on the overall technological development of all sectors of an economy. As the international experience has shown, countries that have invested in defence technology have gained huge economic benefits both by increasing their exports and by strengthening innovation and research. I am sure that the direct priorities of the Ministry's political leadership are the development of a strategic plan, which concerns the upgrading and upgrading of the country's defence industries. Finally, in the draft law presented today by the Ministry of Defence, amendments are incorporated into provisions which create significant problems in the normal professional development of long-term volunteers and professional soldiers. Coming from the Prefecture of Evros, in which the military presence is particularly intense, I have seen, in particular, the time - confronted difficulties faced by the superiors, but mainly the subordinates of the Armed Forces. Unfortunately, the ten-year crisis experienced by our country has exacerbated the needs of military personnel, while at the same time it has prevented the state from solving the already existing problems. With this initiative, our Government and thus the government's political leadership show that they are willing to resolve chronological issues that are concerned by the officials of the Armed Forces. Nevertheless, Minister, there are still key issues that need to be resolved immediately. For example, I mention the right request made by the military bodies in respect of exemption from counting on the total income of the border benefit, so that there is no impact on the reception of the privileged benefits that those who serve in the remote areas of our country are entitled to. With the current situation we are punishing the officials of the Armed Forces who serve at the border, which is contrary to all logic. I hope, Minister, that in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, we will have the opportunity to discuss this problem again with a view to finding a solution immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, history has placed us in a geographical area of high strategic importance, but at the same time also of great political instability. The continued reinforcement of the armed systems, the upgrading of the deterrent capacity of the Armed Forces is a necessity from which our country will not be able to escape in the near future. For this reason, the political system as a whole should develop a uniform and stable defence policy which guarantees the security of the country, with sustainable economic conditions. Today's draft law serves perfectly the same logic. His vote in favour of an enlarged majority will be a sign of national responsibility, as well as an increase in our political system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u419	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr. Avramakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u420	Thank you, Mr President. My Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you are asking us to reach agreement on national issues and we are giving it simpler, and I am taking the opportunity, on the basis of the decisions of the National Foreign Policy Council, to serve our national interests. But, on the contrary, and in the run-up to the election, whether it relates to the Ambassadors' agreement or the refugee agreement, you have followed another tactic, which was clearly aimed at your electoral interests and electoral purposes. We believed that as a government you will actually come this consensus to do so. Unfortunately, today and in this Chamber are two of your actions which show the whole opposite of what you are saying at least. I am speaking, first of all, of the sudden amendment you have tabled, concerning the setting-up of a National Coordination Committee under Mr Stefani. He surprised us and surprised us. There are topics and topics and topics. The typical part is that there was a shift in the way it came to Parliament, because the basis of what we know in its statement is that the General Accounting Office knew about this amendment. That means he's been in your knowledge for at least the last week. But you have concealed it within the committee and the debate that has taken place in this House, so that you can come here today and surprise us, unfortunately, that Parliament and the whole of the parties. I believe, however, that there is an essential issue, as far as the responsibilities of this coordinating body are concerned. Our rapporteur and our parliamentary representative will show that. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill of the Ministry of National Defence is very important, since it concerns practically the strengthening of the country's Armed Forces. I would like to say, for example, that in the years of the economic crisis, austerity and budgetary constraints the cost of armaments has significantly reduced. This reduction is partly due to the general clothing of resources that the country has faced and is faced with, in part, the fewer needs for equipment, since the years preceding the memoranda have been implemented with huge equipment and partly because the overcompensation of the country's equipment by the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, the hatreds received by various people, as has been demonstrated by justice, have been one of the main causes of bankruptcy. The SYRIZA Government has managed in the most suffocating conditions to significantly improve the preparedness and strength of the Armed Forces, to satisfactorily maintain the country's defence systems and, at the same time, to reach a profitable agreement for both F-16 and Mirage. It makes no sense now to go into a historical regression on how previous bankruptcy governments have failed to maintain and renew aircraft. It makes no sense at this time to remember the details of the multitude of submarines. Our country paid and paid dearly for mismanagement, irresponsible waste, the so-called armaments party. The solution to the upgrade of the F-16 and the Mirages, which the SYRIZA government finally approved in association with the physical leadership of the Armed Forces was nicked by the representatives of the New Democracy, who did not see what was going on outside their party interest. Today they come to confirm typically that this was now the best solution to the country's financial data. It covers the needs of the Air Force and in theory gives the necessary strength for the country's defence, as, as things are today, Turkey seems not to have the F-35, based on the balances that have been established so far. However, the upgrading of war aircraft will improve the country's deterrent power even in the theoretical possibility of changing the data again and finally Turkey acquires the F-35. Taking into account the needs of the country into account in equipment, which is being increased due to the aggression that Turkey has recently shown, we should seriously discuss the next steps to maintain the balance and, if possible, to achieve our country's arrogance. It is really a difficult decision to increase expenditure on national defence, bearing in mind that many others are the critical sectors of the state that need aid. The resources required could be ensured, if the New Democracy were not raped in its policy, to satisfy the economic elite of the country so quickly and to such an extent. The responsible period of governance of the SYRIZA, which has resulted in an impressive economic result, while leaving a great financial liquidity pillow at the same time as total expenditure on the social state has increased and significant sums have been distributed to the weakest economic citizens through the social dividend, demonstrates that there are possible balance of service for all needs if they are properly hierarchised and rationalised, and on the basis of public and national interests, the priorities that we put forward. It is also important that we all understand that the state is single and cannot have closed structures. I mention this on the occasion of the important initiative of the SYRIZA government to integrate military hospitals into the services of the Greek people. For this initiative, the opposition of the New Democracy at that time was extremist. It proved, however, to be salvages to meet the medical needs of the Greek people. The military hospitals, which have been significantly strengthened by SYRIZA, are in no way at risk of a collapse, as they deliberately support. Their level is such, the scientific staff of executives are such that they can offer high-level services to those who need them. The fact that funds are due by the EEA to the Armed Forces Hospitals does not reverse the reality that the SYRIZA Government has also delivered these structures to the best possible situation than it has received, despite the fact that these hospitals were asked to participate more in meeting the needs of the country. The current New Democracy Government should finally begin to confess officially and publicly that the state delivered by SYRIZA was much better than what it received, that the country it received was much stronger than the one it delivered. The unity that our country and our people need with regard to the dangers that exist can only be forged with truths. And it is true that the period of governance by SYRIZA was a period of sound management and responsibility. The fact that the country at the moment can be focused on the danger of the East and not unnecessarily dispersed its powers is a success of SYRIZA's foreign policy. The fact that the country is in contact with a substantial alliance with most Eastern Mediterranean and Balkan countries is a success of SYRIZA's multidimensional and active foreign policy. The fact that the new government is making use of diplomatic capital and relations built on the basis of mutual respect and mutual interests is a profit for the country. That strengthening the Armed Forces within a climate of consensus, without launching intercategories for the sight, is a profit for the country. The fact that the New Democracy in terms of the Armed Forces continues and implements SYRIZA's policy is a profit for the country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] At these moments we do not have the luxury of unnecessary delays. The danger is more than visible. The only way to avoid the worst is to make the most of all the opportunities available to us. Through diplomacy and the strengthening of the Armed Forces, through the main consensus, we will force the most reckless on the other side to consider the dangers that Erdogan himself and his country, Turkey, the continuation of this aggressive and provocative policy that has been following in recent months. To close as I started, my Minister, in the context of consensus, today it proved that we are taking a step forward and two behind. I have heard Mr Stefani - because I was in the Chamber - talking about the refugee problem, making two references which at least raise this issue again on the original basis that you put it as opposition. He spoke in the context of the refugee - immigration - that this is a national crisis. We are therefore turning to the fact that it is a national problem and not a European problem, as we have repeatedly stressed. And your top ministers have still formulated this as a position, and we need to see this. Secondly, he said that we should be more general on this issue, because we cannot say that we want consensus and, in fact, we want to pursue pastoral policies, which at this historic juncture I think are not helping anyone to get the country ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u421	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr Gülekas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u422	Ladies and gentlemen, I will agree with the previous speaker, who has just come out, on the climate of consensus. Honestly, I will not fall into the trap of advertising the work of the present government in this area, by devoting the Ministry of National Defence, the political leadership, the Minister, Mr Panayotopoulos, the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis. I would just like to stress something that needs to be heard and given as a message from this Chamber and from this Step: with the responsibility shown by all the parties, there has been an exemplary process of drafting this bill. I am pleased that the Minister of National Defence, Mr Panagiotopoulos, was present with the Deputy Minister, Mr Stefanis, but also with the military leadership of the Ministry of National Defence - almost most of the meetings present - throughout the meetings of the Committee on Defence and Foreign Affairs, where we worked out this bill, taking the precautions we had to take on sensitive data, which should not be published - so there we protected the meeting, by holding closed meetings - on the other hand, sending the message, at this very time, that Greece is standing up and that the political parties, in front of drawing up a national line, say 'yes' to consensus and following a process that really makes us all proud. Minister, we must stress the procedure that we have followed in committee and what is happening today. And we say it because it sounded from all the wings. Indeed, when we have a country that is constantly equiping and violating International Law, it is blatantly violating the rights of other states, we must, at least, monitor at the level of readiness for that country. I say this on the occasion of something else: it has recently become very fashionable to reproduce Turkish propaganda products in this place. Even the last statement by a middle-sizes in the neighbouring country, we produce it, advertise it, transfer it. Instead of doing this, we need to talk about something else. We need to talk about what happened yesterday in the European Union, which really shows that there is both political decision and political stability and political power in our country and also in the great European family. Some people have to tell the neighboring country "you can't go on with this tactic." But here, we are not just talking about our political power. We're here to talk about our military power. So do we really have military power to make neighbors respect our own positions? Of course we do. Do we have military power to ensure our peace? Of course we do. And we need to emit this message. Ladies and gentlemen, how many times have we asked fellow citizens: “Is there a risk? Is something wrong? Should we be worried?'? Of course not. We shouldn't worry. That's why we're forcing our peace. That is why we are also discussing this draft law, so that we can monitor the balance that must exist, on the one hand, to ensure our peace and, on the other, to have the power to demand that our positions be respected. Because when some people don't count on International Law, then you have to be able to convince that if someone is in charge of your territorial integrity, your national sovereignty, he must know that you are in complete power to defend your sovereign rights. And that's a message we have to emit everywhere. And I am pleased that this message has been emanated from this Chamber, as well as from the committee, from all the wings of the House. It was something that I believe is very important. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will be counting on all the provisions of the bill very quickly. I shall speak about the first three provisions which are very important. These things must be heard by all of us, and I must put them to the vote. We're upgrading the fleet of our F-16 fighter aircraft. In fact, from the fourth generation we're going to Viper level, that is we're going to almost the fifth generation. And that's not all. The important thing is that in order to make this upgrade we use - this is another benefit to the country's security and defence - our defence industry, since almost all of the sub-constructive work goes to the Greek Defence Industry. Greece is therefore benefiting from both economic and, above all, also financially. Because this enables ODA tomorrow to be ready to serve all the fifth generation aircraft, which at some point we should discuss in this Chamber and Greece should buy them if the neighbouring countries continue to do so insanely toward the equipment. It is therefore important that the first aircraft - and it is worth repeating what Mr Panagiotopoulos put to us in our committee - is at 114 Battle Wing ready for dismantling, so that our defence industry can be upgraded to start this whole fleet. The same is true with the support of our Air Force's fleet of fighter aircraft, a very powerful weapon that truly maintains the balance in the Aegean. And this is the second article in which we have to stay. These are the next steps that Greece is taking and for the next seven years, it supports all these aircraft, which give Greece the right to be able to tell any friend and neighbor "yes, I am in complete a position to defend my national sovereignty". Apart from that, there is also Article 3, which enables us, in essence, to say, firstly, that it ends a long series of disputes and, secondly, that it benefits - and benefits greatly - our Navy. It benefits from the additional benefit from the 5 million materials, plus 15 million. We have these 20 million that is a very important benefit. On the other hand, in the end, our Navy is provided with materials that are necessary and useful, both for today's and for the future work that it needs in our submarines. And because I'm talking about submarines, Minister, I really want to stand on this, which you mentioned in our committee, that the next step is our Navy to go ahead and upgrade its equipment, namely to get heavy torpedoes for modern submarines 214, which is the weapon, which is preserved by sea - like our Air Force - our Aegean. And that is what Greece is ready to do. And this is the next step, as the Minister has already announced. I say this because, at one time, you remember, ladies and gentlemen, at least the oldest people here - we had a debate on the need to equip the fleet of tanks, the Leopards with modern shells. Well, today we must move on to the rest of the needs and meet the other needs of the army. I think that must sound here. In conclusion, I would like to say this: with the agreement of all the parties, as I said at the beginning, the next debate - perhaps the next - which will take place at the beginning of the new year in the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs of the Parliament will be a debate on the situation of the Armed Forces of the country, a debate in which they will be presented beyond their reflections, in addition to the views, in particular, the proposals of all the parties on how Greece should be able to safely endure the future, forcing and guaranteeing its peace. Ladies and gentlemen, after several years of parliamentary presence here, I can say, I feel the need to say that today this House is doing its duty to the home country, as in other cases, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u423	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Before I give the floor to the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Janakopoulos, I will give the floor to Mr Pafili, as he has asked me, on a point of order. Mr. Palphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u424	I wanted to do a placement before the Minister spoke. We had decided, for reasons that each of us understood, to vote'residents' in principle and on the whole. However, what has happened with the amendment, which is unacceptable, which is a bill which is coming at the last minute, in fact with what you are doing, if you insist on and do not withdraw it now, leads us to vote against.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u425	What's "the present" what's "then"?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u426	It's not the same. Everyone who knows, they know very well. Not to mention more. And we would like the Minister to think very well about what political responsibility the government and the New Democracy party have in such a draft law on equipment and the rest of it, to add at the last minute a kind of amendment of this kind that forbids someone from voting 'in favour' or 'in favour' in this bill. We'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u427	Yes, Mr. Colleague, it was a minute. Mr Janakopoulos, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor for twelve minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u428	First of all, Madam President, I would like to thank you and the Minister for the fact that he has agreed to listen to me first and then take the floor. I think it is a good parliamentary practice, and we have to talk about that. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, while the committees were already having an important debate on today's bill and, in fact, on a good climate, we were at the disposal of consensus, debate and agreement on the matter of the bill, as the SYRIZA rapporteur, Dricas, said, as Mr Vitsas said in his position and the other SYRIZA Members, unfortunately, the government is once again choosing to create a bad climate and lead it to its limits. In our opinion, it is true that Mr Stefanis, in other words, the Minister on behalf of the Government, at the last moment, not a technical amendment, not an administrative arrangement amendment, which we could understand in the sense that tomorrow the budget debate will begin and perhaps there has been some failure, some weakness or some technical problem to pass on to the previous bills, as has been done, for example, with Mr Kikilis' amendment. But we are not talking about this, unfortunately. We are talking about unacceptable legislation, a regulation which could be a separate bill, a new bill, and in a sudden way, and despite the fact that you and the State Secretary, if I am not mistaken, confirmed in committee that there is no need for any amendment concerning the Ministry of National Defence during the debate on the bill in plenary. I do not say that because, in my opinion, this is the main point of order. I am saying this in the most emphatic way that I believe you, Mr Minister, and you and Mr Stefani. I think you did not know that the amendment is going to come. I believe what you both said. However, the fact that you did not know it yourself during the debate on the bill in the committees is twice as dangerous, because it demonstrates once again that the government is going to refugee without any plan, without any strategy and with the result that the absolute mess has been done. In other words, it turns out by the fact that you were not aware of the tabling of the amendment, because I do not want to believe that one of you lied, that Mr Mitsotakis is in absolute panic. It improvises, moves without compass and all that on the backs of local societies, the backs of refugees and ultimately all citizens. It started in July 2019 with the abolition of the Ministry of Migration Policy. He passed the responsibilities for immigration policy at the Ministry of Civil Protection. He then understood his mistake and created the coordinator, even defining the Deputy Minister of National Defence and passing the civic protection responsibilities at the Ministry of National Defence. We now have new legislation, which redirects competences. And the comicotragic is the following: a few days ago, a few weeks ago, Mr. Mitsotakis and the means that support him a huge communication doro for creating the position of the national coordinator for the unaccompanied refugee. And now he goes through the responsibilities of the national coordinator he appointed 15 days ago to the national coordinator. These aren't serious things. That's not a strategy. That's not a plan. This is not a serious government. But what is very serious, extremely serious, is the fact that you yourself and precisely because of them, in my opinion, of the far-right ideas of some within the government chosen by Mr Mitsotakis, you have entangled yourself. May I remind you that in the summer the real difficult situation in Moria - no one denies this - with five thousand people, and because you had the idea of stopping inland transport, is the situation in Moria actually dramatically worsening with eighteen thousand people stacking and not knowing where to go? And it is even more serious that, on the pretext of the mess you yourself have created, precisely in panic, you are now going to militarise the state to solve the problems you have created. Because it is the first thing to hear the self-evident distinction between Armed Forces and Security Bodies and the direct violation of the hierarchy of both by the appointment of a national coordinator, who will have the power to end all the bodies. The self-evident principles of the Constitution, the laws, the self-evident ones of democracy, are violated by this regulation. One more comment. It is not possible to provide for the possibility of directly outsourced projects in general and vaguely and independently of the costs. I understand that there are needs that need to be addressed. These should be defined in a clear and concrete way in the law and be able to be treated exceptionally, but not in this general and universal way that you have chosen in this particular amendment. And it is enough that the General Accounting Office of the State tells him in his report that the expenditure which can be incurred by this arrangement cannot be predicted, but depends on real facts. What real facts? The point is, there's something behind it, something very specific is hidden. It hides from the fact that the European Commission has refused to finance closed centres, I will say, because they violate Union law and you now want to build them and set up parties. I would like to say again, Mr Minister, that you have a responsibility, even now, to withdraw the amendment. Otherwise we will be obliged not to vote in favour of a bill with which we agree at first, because it is essentially a bill that has been on the tracks set by the SYRIZA government since 2015. In other words, it goes on in the direction we followed, when we chose to work on upgrading existing equipment and not to continue with the sinful but also strategically incorrect logic of the race of armaments of the past. I say strategically wrong, but also sinful, because the armaments race was directly linked to the practice of hatred. And these are things we don't tell you, the Greek courts say so. It was precisely this practice that led to the craving - you have no responsibility, of course, for that - of Leopard, where we supplied Leopard, but then we were unable to use it and stayed at the corner because we had not supplied the necessary resources for its operation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u429	The missiles had not been supplied with missiles.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u430	I oppose Mr. Vitsa's comment. However, I would also like to point out that this consensus - and I am not responsible for you, Mr Minister, of course - has not been shown by the New Democracy in the previous parliamentary term, when on our own initiative, on the initiative of the previous government, the F-16 convention has come into force. Then those of you who were present and those present in this Chamber will remember very well that the New Democracy raised up an unthinkable noise, an unthinkable logic of extremism of this choice, which you now come to support, you come now praise, you now come to advertise as a leading initiative to upgrade the country's position and also its armamental capacity.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u431	It's not the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u432	We are talking here about the most extraordinary demonstration of the extreme hypocrisy of Mr Mitsotakis' political logic throughout the previous period and not just in armaments. He's done it on a number of issues. He's done it on the issue of the Prespecies Agreement. He's done it elsewhere. But let me say one more thing before I close. The first article, which concerns F-16, does not concern the main contract, is not about the project, because I am sure that you would tell me that without the first article the project could not be carried out. It is not at all about the implementation of the project itself. On the other hand, it relates to the company’s monitoring obligations, it relates to obligations of the company which are not related to the upgrading of F-16, other obligations of the contract. That is what you are actually coming to legislate on. And precisely these monitoring obligations of the company should, as has been pointed out by all the parliamentary parties, be closely monitored and kept up-to-date - you have said so, Mr Minister, and we welcome it - and we welcome it - because we know that precisely in these monitoring obligations, which come to replace the old compensatorys, there are many details in which the devil usually hides in detail. I would like to conclude by saying this - and I thank you for your tolerance, Madam President, even this two-minute - that foreign policy and national defence are areas which are inconsistent, but which are not the same, because there are enough voices - and parliamentary and journalistic - which, taking advantage of or taking better advantage of the tension that currently exists in relations between Greece and Cyprus and the United States and Turkey, which are in an international isolation situation, call on the political forces to support a return to the old and failed doctrine of the armaments race. I think that this political logic should be avoided. Diplomacy is diplomacy, national defence is national defence. They are areas which, of course, have to act in support of each other, but we cannot turn national defence into a key element in foreign policy. The national defence works to defend itself and to prevent it from operating in relation to sovereign rights. It's not the main weapon for our foreign policy. Our foreign policy must be based on the provision of dialogue, communication channels and international law, and national defence must act dissuasively for anyone who is being shunned or wants to question our sovereign rights. And I am sure, Minister, that in this logic and in this dogma you will be on your way, as you have been doing so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u433	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, fifty two students and students and three educational sessions from the 3rd High School of Nafpaktos. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister of National Defence, Mr. Panayotopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u434	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as an introduction to the previous parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, I would say that at these four meetings during the committee stage and at today's plenary session every margin has been exhausted to give answers in a documented manner, it has been very extensive on all the points in the problem of the three main articles of the bill that we have brought both quantitatively and qualitatively to the fullness of the answers. I think that there is a huge difference from the last attempt that took place in January 2019 that this convention, in fact, was to amend this convention, for your own days to be discussed in this House with an amendment, in such a way that it was also surprising to see such a legislative initiative and then, afterward, to convene a committee of equipment in the light of the universal and strong, but also reasonable reaction of the anti-population parties. I therefore believe that we cannot say that we did not have every good intention of exhausting the whole range of debate precisely for the sake of transparency that should exist in such debates. From there on, I declare that I have the pleasure of bringing this bill to a vote here, but at the same time I regret for two reasons that I have to develop. First of all, I am sorry, but I cannot withdraw this amendment. This amendment is a responsibility for the Ministry of National Defence through its political leadership. As I said before, he takes responsibility for perhaps more than his responsibility to do what he can to manage the explosive more refugee, but now more migration problem. On the basis of this amendment, an amendment which has certainly been tabled with surprise, but which is necessary in order to manage this complex issue. I am also sorry that this amendment has made the debate quite clear on the major issue of the armaments programmes that we have come to discuss today, because it is simply absolutely essential that these equipment should be accelerated and dealt with more and more. I'm not happy about that, of course. It has a little ruined the visible and obvious climate of consensus, even in principle of agreement, to vote on this bill. However, if, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, I gave you a chance to say 'no', I urge you not to use it and vote in favour of this bill. VAN DER WAAL (NI). — (NL) Mr President, I should like to begin by It is your every right, but this bill, which is a small - big step in stepping up the upgrading of our country's armaments systems, I think you should vote on it. Another reason why I regret is that there at noon this debate has been taken to a café - and I would remind you of the definition of Lebex, which says 'Café is not the debate when the debate is taken to the café, but when the café is transferred to the debate' - with personal retaliations by the then President of the Greek Solution, with piano lines, with tricks and half the truths and verbal magic, but also contradictions with the substance, namely the position on the amendment in question. The amendment concerns the institutional establishment of the national coordinator for immigration and the Single Border Surveillance Body. You, gentlemen of the Greek Solution, told us "close the border, but do not activate the mechanism that will ensure it". That's what you're telling us, actually.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u435	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u436	You say "Control it, but don't let this coordinating body work." What is this coordinating body? It is the instrument that will allow and shield the institutions that are now actually doing, that is to say, operating in the observatory on the island, the official of the Armed Forces, next to the police officer, patrolling the porter on the floating instrument of the Special Forces, the inflatable inflatable inflatable off of Lesvos, Chios, Rhodes...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u437	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u438	...to be able by the Port Corps to develop the Navy and Evros policemen patrolling near the border or at any time at the crossing points with military officials. SYRIZA tells us too: “Manage migration. We managed it, but you now manage it, but be careful why this arrangement is a militarisation of democracy." You go to Evros tomorrow with Mr Stefani and tell the Hebrews that the reinforcement of patrols and officials of the Armed Forces is a militarisation of democracy, and that is a bad thing. And if you do not like these in terms of militarisation, propose the humanitarian parameter and go to Moria and tell those who have been cumulated there, but also those who are trying to control them, that they should supply beds in two years from now on under this amendment is a bad thing, because democracy is militarised, and on the other hand they could have this possibility to do so directly and solve the problem much more quickly under this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u439	And now they can do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u440	They can't. You know very well that with the competitive processes, one of the problems that this amendment solves is the improvement of speeds. You know that, Mr. Vitsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u441	Article 96 is. What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u442	In any case, this government is trying to deal with a complex problem, a complex and difficult problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u443	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u444	And in this way of management, Mr Vitsa, has also proposed the issue of creating a threat to the country's internal security. There wasn't that in the public conversation. Are we now questioning the fact that these flows and the way in which they grow even within the perpetrator when under other conditions weather conditions would not encourage them and the pressure there accumulates on Evros and on the islands could potentially pose a threat to the country's internal security? And we're supposed to sit on this one? The national coordinator should be described in terms of location to select the person as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u445	Intruders, you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u446	I am not saying 'insolent'. It's different. If I want to say 'insolent', I will say it. I say, however, that it is a threat to the country's internal security and the incidents are many and daily and growing. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And that is our view. Your view is that it is a humanitarian problem purely. Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u447	Why is it a threat? That's what you tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u448	Listen, Mr. Vitsa. I won't say any more. I will say, however, that this is my view and I am very afraid - for you, not for me - that this is also the view of the Greek people, especially those who are experiencing the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u449	Ladies and gentlemen, please do not shout. You do the same many times.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u450	Who are we interrupting?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u451	Please, ladies and gentlemen. The Minister's talking. Until the Minister finishes, don't ask any questions. When it's done, you'll take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u452	I need to talk about the bill, but I think what I'm saying is heard by Evros. And I will never say that there is no humanitarian dimension. I'll just say she doesn't just have it. And in any case, the government shows this and assumes the responsibility to resolve it. But I have to say a few things about the bill. First of all, I should like to say that I must congratulate the debate and those who have brought it to the committees. I would like to pay congratulations, although it is not the time to give or accept congratulations, but to intensify our work and take it further, to the rapporteurs, of course. In particular, I would also like to say to the rapporteur, Mr Lazaridis, who, with a time-sufficient suffocating pressure, has brought about a very technical text. I would like to say that I would really like to see the climate of consensus prevailing with regard to the provisions relating to upgrading to the armaments level of the country's Armed Forces. However, this bill does not mean the beginning of the end of this effort, but more so, I would say, the end of the beginning, not because so far nothing has been done. Of course, things have been done. Sometimes, however, it is easier to launch and more difficult - particularly at decision-making and responsibility level - to solve the problems. We have now come to give a final solution to time-consuming problems and, indeed, for a long time. There is a constant effort to upgrade the country's Armed Forces. What we are saying now is that it is now intensified. And it is intensified because, of course, the conditions are also imposing it, the complex security challenges which are now occurring in our wider region in an increasingly more and more intensified manner. But also our systematic, strong and unambiguous question of our sovereign rights from neighbour Turkey is demanding vigilance and response. And that's what we're doing. We are not here to record the problems and to make general positions on them, but to resolve them quickly - I would remind you that in five months' time we have resolved final issues that last for years - in transparency, having exhausted as I have said the scope for discussion, so that they can answer everything up to antenna in five discussions which have so far been conducted fully and effectively. In particular, as regards the amendment of the F-16 Convention, in addition to the additional negotiation we made when we entered into it, it also brought an additional benefit to the construction project under construction in ODA of EUR 16 million. With regard to the resolution of a new time-consuming and complex issue of this surplus material in the submarines, the overall benefit in the end for the Greek State amounts to EUR 20 million. For the record, I have to say a few things about the three basic articles that are at the bottom - the trunk of this bill. The first is to amend the Convention on the Upgrading of F-16, the second on Framework Agreements to subsequently support 'Mirage 2000' and 'Mirage 2000-5', which for the first time in 2012 will be found with an institutionalised framework for the uninterrupted flow of spare parts in order to improve dramatically - and quite quickly, I would like to believe - their repositors, with everything that this implies for our Air Force. And the third is to solve the problem of surplus material - Express Materials - for the submarines of our Navy, which I have heard - and very rightly - how important a weapon is and how much more must it upgrade its operational capabilities, which will soon concern us when we bring about the acquisition of new heavy torpedoes for the submarine type 214. In 2018, therefore, the Convention on the Modernisation of Air Force F-16 aircraft was signed, amending the previously existing transnational agreement as of 2006. The total programme cost amounts to 1.5 billion dollars. The construction contract, 'LOCKHEED MARTIN', amounts to 1 billion dollars. At the request of the Ministry - and very rightly submitted - during the 2017-2018 negotiation phase was required by the manufacturer and by the participation of the domestic industry, ODA and, more generally, the defence industry in the upgrading programme. As a result of the 2000 compensation agreement, however, the company had to offer equal returns at the cost of the upgrading. The legal framework, however, has, in the meantime, changed. It was abolished by the 2011 Act and we had to find another solution. It was then decided to move the original contract to a security agreement, to separate it from the 2000 Convention and to regulate the issue in such a way as to ensure, above all, the interests of the country and the observance of European regulations. We have extensively explained to the committee how it is possible, pursuant to Article 346 of the Treaty of Lisbon, to allow the Member State - to take those measures that protect its essential security interests, in particular the development of programmes for the production of weapons systems and weapons. And in this spirit of Community law, the convention that we signed has also been initiated. I also said that the main issue that has been explained was to find this legal formula. Another very important issue that concerned us was the structure of sub-programmes. I explained that the first positive point was that around 70% of sub-projects of sub-projects are directed to ODA. The rest is directed as infrastructure projects in our Air Force. And since the renegotiation and review of one of these programmes, there has been the need for two of them to be kept aside so that we can update them in the process, of course, at the same time, with full information from the Committee on Equipment and, of course, in line with the new priorities and operational requirements of the Air Force. These are for the purpose of serving transparency. This upgrade will, in essence, give the main body of our Air Force, eighty-four planes that will enter over the eight years that the program will last - the first is already in Tanagra's facilities - the possibility of moving into another Air Force and the F-16 to actually evolve into another aircraft, the most advanced aircraft in the world of this type, that is, the F-16. It is the 'VIPER' version. All except the hulls of the trolley and the landing systems, are changing and in particular the electronic systems are changing, in effect by giving the Air Force a new weapon. I think that this is very important for the operational capabilities of the Air Force. It is also important that, with the programme - which we once called compensatory, but now are provisions under the security and supply agreement - the EAW is able to move from domestic investment to infrastructure in a modern, extroverted and competitive defence industry. This is the big bet of the substance the next day. This opportunity must not be lost by ODA. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] With regard to the second article - I will need three, four more minutes, Madam President, I will not be far away - they have been said to be exhaustively - for the adoption of the three draft agreements - a framework agreement then to support the aircraft of the 'Mirage 2000' and 'Mirage 2000-5' type. Here are the approval of the three draft agreements, the framework of which is the subsequent support of Mirage aircraft in the two types that I mentioned between the IAEA and the three French suppliers, the 'THALES' for optics, if I am not mistaken and the electronics, of SAFRAN for engines and the 'DASSAULT' for the general design and construction of the aircraft. This has been the small victory that I have referred to in the committee at my meeting with the French Minister for Defence at the beginning of October in Paris, not so much the debate on freshness or on the others, but on the Mirages I demanded to resolve the issue because we need them, they are extremely necessary weapons - aircraft with their weapons - in the Aegean business theatre. These framework agreements result from the need to continue supporting the fleet of excavators of this type, which due to the special weapons they may carry are essential for our country's defence. What happened? With the inability to supply our Air Force inevitably spare parts from the three suppliers for years not only in our own mistakes, but also in discomfort with the suppliers - who have insisted on getting more and more difficult conditions to meet with our Air Force and therefore have done much harder work than the time has passed - these planes would gradually lead to their final depreciation. This shouldn't have happened. This support was initially implemented through a contract then supported by 1990. In 2012, after several extensions, the contract required a new one on the basis of the 2011 new procurement framework, the tenders that were awarded were infertile. A series of intensive negotiations has been launched again. In 2018, following a series of meetings, the issue was raised by companies not accepting certain conditions of the current legislative framework. After all, this led the contest to fail. The IAEA has been authorised for new negotiations in order to resolve the problem by mutual agreement and at the end of the day, draft framework agreements and corresponding implementing agreements have been agreed. In order to meet these conditions, a special regulation is now needed, which aims to introduce these specific provisions which will only apply to the implementation of the framework agreements being approved. That is what we are doing and we are doing - and I think this is unusual, but it is happening in this case - because the funding of the programme with a ceiling of EUR 260 million for seven years has already been approved, namely, Greece currently has the money, the spare parts have been found, as has the uninterrupted flow of their supply to the Air Force. So we just had to come to an agreement. The funds are available, the funding for the years 2019 and 2021, which is 30 million per year, has already been repeated by the Ministry of Finance. So we come and solve a time-consuming problem that counts for too many years and deprives our Air Force of one of its basics - if you want to - an aircraft, one of its basic tools. Now this gets into a definitive resolution trajectory. As far as the third provision is concerned, "Definition of a draft settlement agreement between the Hellenic Republic, the "THYSSENKRUP MARINE SYSTEMS" and the "ELLENIKA NAVELY Greek Shipbuilding S.A.", a definitively unresolved even a chronological case of the extra materials of the executive agreement ratified by the 2010 Act for our submarines is concerned, and it was explained how important this is. Instead of contesting HSY, the Greek shipyards, or the German manufacturer for a further number of years, by wasting time, money and energy, until we reached a definitive solution, with very uncertain benefit and outcome for the Greek State, we came with this arrangement and we resolve it definitively. It is proposed to amend the Implementing Agreement by legislative regulation, because precisely the Implementing Agreement was ratified by law, where the manufacturer ‘ThyssenKrupp Marine Systems’, the successor for those who remember HDV, waives the right to receive from HSY any more in exchange for the extra materials. HSY waives the right to receive from the Greek State the remaining amount of additional materials of EUR 15 million, which had been ordered in the past by an arbitration tribunal - to be the first benefit of 15 million - from the amount that HSY no longer requires from the Greek State, namely the Hellenic Navy. The Greek State recognises irrevocably and unconditionally that the disputed payment of 115 million, which was the subject of the previously charged scheme against "THYSSENKRUP", was paid legally after the project has been done and has purchased the material at "THYSSENKRUP MARINE SYSTEMS", which is entitled to retain it. The Greek State recognises irrevocably and unconditionally the write-down of an act against HSY of 110 million, resulting from the difference of a total amount of 115 million, which is reduced by the sum of 5 million legally paid to HSY for the extra materials. I am entering technical details, but I am trying to show why this agreement is beneficial and is coming to an end today. The Parties recognise and accept that the Navy has full and exclusive ownership, integrity and ownership over certain materials of a total value, as I said, 5m euros, in addition to the additional materials already delivered by THYSSENKRUPP in HSY before the date of activation of the Executive Agreement. And finally, the Navy will receive in very short time these surplus materials and materials that I have said above, which are necessary for the conduct of present or future maintenance work in the submarines, and will close these time-consuming and cost-consuming disputes in the courts on this matter. That's a solution, too. He's getting out of his way. We who manage submarine issues can turn our attention to strengthening them with weapons and torpedoes that I spoke about before. All these loose ends go out, and I come to my choice. And thank you for your tolerance. Listen, ladies and gentlemen. On the long and awkward but glorious historical route, this small country has brought great national successes, triumphs, I would say, but it has also suffered faint defeats, I would say. In our good times, when we had great successes, I think there were a cumulative of three elements. The first is the firm political leadership, the second is the high national collective mind and the third is the powerful Armed Forces. The first element, the strong leadership, can launch and speed up the third, the powerful Armed Forces. Both can inspire the second, the high national collective mind. The same thing we have to do now. But, you know, on today's powerful Armed Forces we seek not to destroy triumphs in some expansion war, but to draw up a new course in a peaceful environment of stability, prosperity and development. A prerequisite for prosperity and development is the security guaranteed by their deterrent power, by the power of weapons, by the powerful Armed Forces. Powerful Armed Forces not to go to war, but to ensure peace. So I call on you to do what you need to do, so that the F-16 - eighty-fourth-fourth-fourth-the-mile-block of the Air Force, are changed to an even stronger plane with even more potential, to strengthen this deterrent power of our Air Force and the Armed Forces. I urge you to do what we need to do so that our Mirages fly over the Aegean Sea again, as they must and should rebuild it with their wings and with their weapons. I urge you to do what we need to do so that the most modern and terrible weapon of our Navy, the type 214 submarines, are now able to support equipment and spare parts, so that they can attempt as they should attempt in the Aegean Sea and even more tomorrow with good equipment on torpedoes. I call on you, in addition to what has been said here today, of the amendments and others, but with a sense of national duty to be lifted to the occasion and the criticality of the moment and to vote in favour of this bill which ultimately does nothing but enhance the power of the Armed Forces of the country and keep, as I like to say, the sword of Greece shining and sharp. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u453	Thank you, too, Minister. Parliamentary spokesman for the Change Movement has been asked for the floor for a minute, and immediately after Mr. Janakopoulos. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u454	Thank you, Madam President. You told us about the cost of each programme. You know very well the issue that Greece has in relation to its obligation as a NATO Member State to spend 2% of its budget on issues relating to its Armed Forces. And we're at the top of 2%, about 2.34%. The problem, however, is that, Minister, in various reports in the context of NATO, this is not the case, but it appears to be below 2%, because there is a very strong footnote and regional reports that this money is not what we call it, but a large part of it goes to staff salaries and pensions. We have arguments that in the various forums we are confronting, but the NATO structure does not accept them, and it is the reports that are, and I imagine, your international interlocutors will have told you too. These costs, these costs which you have identified today in committee and you - and the staff have mentioned - are taken into account, firstly, in the equipment programmes and, secondly, because of nature, especially for F-16, on the technological side of the armaments systems or are not added at all, the country's expenditure, but does not have any impact on the budget in terms of NATO? It is of great importance to all of us who are abroad and who are always confronting this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u455	Madam President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u456	Minister, would you like to hear the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative and answer later?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u457	Madam President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u458	You're out of your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u459	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u460	All the time is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u461	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u462	Mr. Colleague, would you excuse me for a second? There's a list of colleagues who've been waiting too long. You've been here before, and you've asked me for time. Do you want me to read you how long you've been doing? Twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u463	Twenty minutes in my speech. Comment I want to make, Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u464	Please. Some colleagues will talk, and then right after...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u465	Everybody's commenting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u466	Please, because I have a matter with my colleagues. We must talk to our colleagues. Members must also be heard in this Chamber. How do we do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u467	For thirty seconds, Madam President. If I can't take the floor for thirty seconds, don't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u468	I will give the floor to two colleagues and then I will give you the floor. You have the floor, Mr. Janakopoulos, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u469	Thank you, Madam President. I really didn't intend to ask for the floor. However, I think it is because of a clarification from the Minister's side, because as I now read in his previous speech, but also during his speech, he said the following. He said he was asked by the Ministry of National Defence, apart from the security of external borders, to guarantee internal security. He even said he's ready to respond to the request...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u470	Kammenu said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u471	You said so, Minister, a moment ago and said so from the Step of the House. I would like to ask you this: whether you would clarify and say that you did not mean what anyone would understand and call you back or tell us what exactly you mean by guaranteeing internal security on behalf of the Ministry of National Defence and what the Ministry of National Defence has to do with the country's internal security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u472	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u473	In response to Mr. Janakopoulos, of course, to avoid any misunderstandings, I will not identify with your partner's view of Kammen - your partner's government - somewhere there in April 2015, who came out and said that the Army guarantees the country's internal security...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u474	You said that just a moment ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u475	I would point out, therefore, that it was misinterpreted at the edge of the speech. The Army guarantees the security of the country's external borders, guards them, and the country's internal security guarantees it by the police, the port, etc. What I do not want to see, too, any misinterpretation - I do not want to go back to the Minutes now - is that we appreciate that the situation with regard to migration flows, as it is evolving, is a potential threat to the country's internal security. That is what we think. You don't like it. We're not saying the Army will face it. The Army will step up the way the country's external borders are kept, because various points of entry are entering these borders. This dimension of the country's internal security has also been discussed in NATO, because, as you can see, there is a danger of increasing migration and refugee flows from northern Syria following Turkey's invasion there to the refugee flows of ISIS jihadists escaped from the camps that the Kurdish fighters until first guarded.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u476	They can get in and out of streams.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u477	There are cases and you know it. So infiltrating jihadi terrorists through migration flows, in the refugee flows to Greece with a final destination in Europe, is it not a potential threat to the country's internal security? I'm asking myself. These are real estimates, these are real scenarios.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u478	And with wards they can come with them even if they don't!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u479	I would like to have fun with your concerns that the military will take over the country's internal security. That's not what this is all about.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u480	But you don't separate them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u481	You're still insisting on misinterpreting it. The national coordinator with his organisational experience and administrative capacity, Mr Stefanis, is already on his way to Evros, not to mobilise the Army, but to make coordination tomorrow, in the context of what he will most likely assume. That's not the point. First, however, the position had to be described and institutionally shielded, and then we would go to the official announcement of the person to be taken. These have been known through the press for two, three weeks. But we must manage the problem, even now. We, you know, haven't come to the Department of National Defence to escape from responsibility to avoid liability. We're coming to take responsibility. As I told you, even the one that does not account for us, we take it at a cost, but with a full desire to work, as we are working on all other issues, and to solve the problem or, in any case, to improve the treatment of this problem. A response to Mr Loverdou's reasonable question: Look, yes, Greece is one of the countries that is consistent at the disposal of 2% of its GDP in defence expenditure. Of course, there is one question as to whether these costs are purely armaments or have to do with covering the operational costs of the Armed Forces, 20%. But the fact that a few days ago the Prime Minister, Mr. Constantine Mitsotakis, was invited to the Trump lunch, to the well-paid - a few years ago, they were two countries, Greece one among them, and in the recent Synod, if I'm not mistaken, was nine of two, so others cover this 2% rate - that only shows that Greece fulfils its obligations as a member of the alliance. Of course, it fulfils them because of the geopolitical conditions it is experiencing. If we were Luxembourg, and we were luxurious in having Armed Forces with about a thousand people at most, we would not meet this 2% coverage requirement in defence expenditure, but you know we would not have had it and need and we would not have had a matter for the President of the United States to blame us for misdemeanours. But Greece is not bordering the Netherlands and France. It borders with the neighbours we all know, and therefore whether or not we want to keep ready, remarkable Armed Forces with high deterrent power. This lasting project certainly has a great deal of cost and financial impact, especially in times of economic difficulty, but I think it also has a great national benefit. The Department of National Defence prioritises, on the basis of the emergency from now on. There has always been some kind of prioritization, but now it has to be even more intensive. For example, it is our political decision, in the context of this prioritisation, that in the Navy we should first see what we are going to do with the possession of heavy torpedoes and then take another type of transport helicopter. This is the so-called priority. We are therefore prioritising this planning which should be economically feasible and intelligent in terms of options, namely optimising the solutions that will enhance the operational capacity of the Armed Forces and, of course, plan and plan the F-16 upgrade programme as well. In addition to the financial benefit of the 2,283 million - if I am not mistaken - of the benefits of the ODA and of the Air Force, it has been said that, with a total amount of 1.5 billion in eight years, about 200 million per year is a sum that the Armed Forces' budget can afford.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u482	Is this expenditure estimated to be 2%?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u483	Of course, Mr Loverdo, for what is strictly armaments and obviously if it is calculated, it will increase that percentage.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u484	Because it's said it doesn't count. That's why I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u485	Oh, no. We'll ask for it to be calculated. It hasn't started yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u486	You want to see it and ask you about it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u487	From now on, in 2020, it will start and we will certainly ask, we will see, we will confirm. A EUR 1.5 billion armament programme, with all that this entails for the country, cannot be taken into account. I'll see it and I'll confirm it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u488	Thank you, Minister. I will give the floor to Mrs. Tyloridou and then to Mr. Pappa from New Democracy, and I will give Mr. Pafé a minute in violation so that he does not shout.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u489	I mean about the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u490	Mr. Paphie, because we're recording the times of all colleagues...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u491	The Parliamentary Representatives...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u492	You have the right to speak whenever you want. You've been over your time a lot and you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u493	I'm asking you for the floor for a minute. I had 20 minutes and I talked twenty-one if you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u494	You have twenty-one and forty. I've recorded you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u495	The Minister speaks seven minutes. Why don't you interrupt him?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u496	The Minister speaks seven minutes because he has the time that I also have him registered here and has to speak. You know I don't blame any colleague in the Chamber. You know that very well. Mrs. Tyloridou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u497	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at one point in the process that has really overturned some data, as they had been set up at the three meetings of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and National Defence, and also at the meeting of the Standing Committee on Military Affairs. This is done today by tabling this amendment unwarrantedly, without any debate, without specific documentation, at undetermined costs and with the political responsibility of the government. One last amendment is coming at a time, and there is the assurance that no further amendments will come and the government must take responsibility, because the agreement between the parties today is dynamism in one, otherwise very serious draft law. Obviously, this amendment is coming, because a solution needs to be found to a serious issue, the refugee question, an issue for which the New Democracy Government was unprepared, and its moves so far seem to be deadlocked. And that's because she's really trying to give a solution and a way out, as her choice for closed detention centres now has the international outcry. We forget about the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs on 28 November, which we had been listening to with the UN High Commissioner, Philip Grundy, who clearly stated that the UN and international organisations are opposed to detention centres and that there is a lot of evidence in the new government's refugee law that the UN disagrees with? So the government is coming today, without any coherent policy at all, without having the opportunity to discuss this issue and bringing this amendment to a conclusion, and it says that there is no way of withdrawing it, and it has been formulated by the opposition parties that this amendment creates conditions which, if you like, do not allow unanimity on matters to which it should exist. And there should be, in particular, in a critical geopolitical environment, where all of us together need to make use of the possibility of strengthening the fairness of our country. In order to do this, it takes two, first of all, preconditions. One condition is to strengthen our alliances with bilateral, tripartite and quadripartite relations, as our government had done in the previous period, so that we can move our views to international organisations and the wider region against Turkey's provocative and aggressive behaviour, and the other is, of course, strengthening defence capacity in the country. So in such a debate, which concerns the defence of our national independence, the safeguarding of our sovereignty and the safeguarding of our collective freedom at first instance, we must all make an effort to put aside party interests and move forward together, something that the government has not done today. This is something that we must do over time, whether we are in the government or the opposition, and we must all do so. That's not all SYRIZA has to do. We all have to have a consistent and responsible attitude, depending on where we are. Why am I saying that? Please tell me how consistent and responsible it is for us to make strong criticisms of scandalous actions and when we come to the government about the same actions to say how useful and beneficial they are for the country? I am referring to the criticism made by the New Democracy, but also by Mr Mitsotakis, President of the opposition officer, of the offer of 'LOCKHEED MARTIN' as an opposition. In any case, of course, I would not like to spoil this nice atmosphere. But the other thing is I control or express reservations, and I am talking at the outset about scandals and when I come to the government, exactly the same thing I bring it up and present it as the top strategic choice to strengthen our defence power. This bill continues to implement the upgrading and modernisation of the F-16s, as it was signed between the Greek Government during the term of office of SYRIZA and the US Government, on April 30, 2018, and here I will say that our rapporteur is right when he says that in the first article we have a misleading title that refers to the upgrade. Upgrade has already moved from our own government. I think it is very important that we move forward in this process, because our defence adequacy also ensures, but it also enables the state defence industry, the EAA to respond to this programme and, in future, to be a defence industry centre for the wider region as well. Here, then, I think we should all agree together that strengthening the country's defence capacity must be a given and mutually acceptable one from all parties and, at the same time, ensuring transparency so that phenomena of the past do not occur which were affected by both the prestige and the political system, as well as the Armed Forces. It is very important that we do not come back to the times of corruption, interlocutory, in the times that have led us to this economic crisis. Minister, I call on the Government to rethink its amendment today, because it requires that these issues relating to national security and national sovereignty be included in the matter. Don't torpedo it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u498	Thank you too, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty students and students and three educational attendances from the Municipal School of Pastida Rhodes. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I now call on my colleague, Mr Pappa from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u499	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are now being called upon to adopt an important bill from the Ministry of National Defence. This is a bill that time coincides with the increased Turkish provocation in the Eastern Mediterranean and the Aegean Sea, a challenge that directly threatens our sovereign rights and violates International Law. With this draft law, we ensure basic and key operational needs of our Air Force and our Navy. Initially, it is planned to upgrade and modernise our eighty-four fighter aircraft, F-16. Over 70% of the programmes, totalling EUR 279 million, will be implemented by the Greek Defence Industry. It is also planned to upgrade the fighter aircraft 'Mirage 2000', which is a seven-year programme. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] With this programme a solution is given to a problem that has existed since 2012 with the specific aircraft of our Air Force and is finally being solved. The Greek Defence Industry will benefit significantly from the implementation of these two important armaments projects. Not only will they upgrade the operational readiness of the Armed Forces, but they will gradually lead to the recovery of our defence industry and, of course, many new jobs will also be created. Furthermore, this bill is definitively regulating the issue that exists with the extra materials, Excess Materials, which will receive the Hellenic Navy and are essential for the completion of the maintenance work of our Navy submarines. At the same time, Article 5 of the bill regulates career issues for the Armed Forces, namely for long-term volunteers and professional soldiers. We are ensuring and guaranteeing equality between the members of the Armed Forces. We also ensure transparency and impartiality when selecting Heads of the Ministry of National Defence. Ladies and gentlemen, our concern must not be confined to aircraft. These alone could not do anything at all if there were no pilots from our Air Force, people we trust every day to defend our ethers, our national airspace. We therefore have a great 'thank you' to our pilots, but also to all the military personnel in the country and a promise that we will not put their allowances and their allowances to the suffering again. We owe it to them, we owe it to them! Ladies and gentlemen, at this juncture, there are only minor differences between parties but only a national unit. The National Foreign Policy Council has shown the way to drawing up a national line. When the European Union, the United States, Russia, Israel and Egypt are drawn up with our national line and support fairness, we must and must be united. At a time when Turkey is questioning our sovereign rights and international legitimacy, it is a first-class opportunity for the National Representation to show unitedly and the legislature to send a message of unity and seriousness. Ladies and gentlemen, we have our ideological and political differences, which are clear, but above all it is the defence of our national interests. We have so many other issues to deal with. But in the defence of our national interests there is no controversy. In the same sense, we must not only say that we are strong, but show it. We must open up a wider debate so that the country's recovery in the economic sector is combined with the modernisation of our armed systems, with organisation, planning, gradual and significant increase in defence expenditure for the benefit of the Armed Forces, Minister. We are all in Europe. We're across Asia. We are across Turkey. We are across Turkey from Erdogan and should not be fooled. The economy and growth go through the sense of security that our citizens feel, and that is clearly guaranteed by the Armed Forces, modern and efficient. There is no need for anyone, ladies and gentlemen, any vote must not be wasted. We are obliged to see the big picture and to vote in favour of the people who live in the areas that Turkey insists on characterising as 'greys', but it is far beyond blue-white, over and above Greek. That is why I call on you, with a sense of national responsibility and a sense of necessity, to vote together, united as a fist, this bill. Let us consider all our islands and rocky islands, the locusts that hold the Greek flag high at every end of the Aegean Sea. They are our proud islands in the eastern Aegean and in the Dodecanese. They are those who feel strength and security whenever a Greek fighter aircraft flys to the national airspace and defends our national sovereignty. They are the ones who smile at seeing the ships of the Navy crossing our seas between the Greek islands, when they pass out of Kalymnos, from Pserimos, from Tenedos, from Agathonisi, from Rhodes, Symi and Halki and Megisti. And as the great Greek philosopher said, the creator of reason, Aristotle the Macedonian, the Greek genus lives freely, is ruled perfectly and can dominate, if it is politically united. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u500	Thanks to my colleague. Now, he is Mr Anastasios Deskakis from the New Democracy, then he will be Mr Haritou from the SYRIZA and then the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u501	We did not agree that, Mr President, but anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u502	I don't know. Mr. Publicos was a small change. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u503	Mr President, the law of the Ministry of National Defence contains key regulations for the security of the country, and that is why it has a national dimension and importance. The direct geopolitical and geostrategic around traditionally is a field of challenges, turmoil, security and conflict. In the Eastern Mediterranean we have seen several real or potential safety situations which may affect our country. That is why we must keep our reflexes on our defence capabilities, strengthening the Greek Defence Industry. History has endured us with a neighbour who seems, especially in recent years, does not comply with the orders of international law or the rules of good neighbourliness. Apart from displaying a fierce, aggressive rhetoric and provocative, acting as a turbulence, it exerts pressure within the Greek territory, working on people in need. Ladies and gentlemen, I know and have studied what psychological operations mean. The neighbouring country is carrying out a project, with a plan, and asymmetrically, psychological operations, and we must, and from the position of the Greek Parliament, activate our anti-information network. We owe it to the next generations. These also increased currents - mainly economic - of migratory flows promoted in the West through Greece by manoeuvres, in addition to the pressures on the hinterland, pose enormous risks to our country as well as to the other states of the European Union. In these challenges, our country is acting sober, cool and ready. However, because this situation is such, it gives us the opportunity to realise that at the present juncture the integrity of the country's Armed Forces and our deterrent capacity - as the Minister of National Defence has diligently described - must be at the highest possible level. The policy implemented by the present government is extorted from the requirements of international law and the belief in the good neighbourliness. We do not intend, we do not plan to engage in a hot incident, nor do we want it, but we must be careful, as we have studied in the productive schools of the Armed Forces. Basic care, however, is that the Armed Forces operate catalysts as a deterrent - and that is the purpose of this law - in front of a neighbour-arrest. This includes the agreement to upgrade F-16 aircraft and Mirage 2000, to modernise and maintain submarines type 2209 and 214 of our Navy. These decisions significantly upgrade the operational capacity of the Armed Forces and unlock the programs that they were planning, giving growth impetus to the Greek Defence Industry as well. From my post as Deputy Chief of Defence of the New Democracy I pointed out months ago from the Step of the House that the retired Minister of National Defence sought to bring fast and roughly, from the back door, an amendment that included compensatory benefits in terms of upgrading the F-16. The difference between the current government and the outgoing government is very great and very resounding. We, through this law, seek to upgrade and stimulate the Armed Forces for the benefit of the ODA and our Air Force. On the contrary, the desperate ones moved amateurly. The New Democracy bravely proposed, then, crystal clear positions and solutions, which were not accepted by the then Minister. At that time I mentioned features - you can see it from the Minutes of the House - that the New Democracy will be present to correct what would be bad for the perpetrators. Today, with the Prime Minister in front and with the diligent Minister of National Defence, along with the military leadership and all the officials of the Armed Forces, with the well-designed arrangements of key issues, we declare present and restore any injustice against the Armed Forces, ensuring the sense of national security in Greek society. Incidentally, then, we heal the wounds that have been inherited from us by those who have fallen away. Minister, the people of Evros and Thrace are identified with the Greek soldier. He is also identified with the promoted military guards, with the military units, as well as with the major formations of the Armed Forces. I also believe that the operational centres need to function continuously, to be strengthened and properly staffed, because they ensure and ensure peace and security in the region and its patient citizens. I want to testify to the following experience. On the night of July 2017 with my wife, we presented dinner to the General of 12th Division, who was with his wife respectively. Approximately 11 o'clock at night, we received information from each of their own channels about what prevails in the neighbouring country and agreed together that his position is at the Operations Centre of 12th Division. That's what he did. Turkey's descendants could drown, not only Evros but also the whole region. Destinations, not any designs. That is why, Minister, you must bear in mind that the defence and the seal of the Greek state are in Evros and the islands of the north-eastern and south-eastern Aegean. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, you have left and left a trapped landscape. There was no Moria, no centres of service and hospitality in the emerald islands of the northeastern and southeastern Aegean. Unfortunately, your own policies were such that they hit these sensitive areas critically. My village, Mr. Vitsa, is a thousand meters from the river Evros. That's where I grew up. Another thousand meters is my old village, from which I come.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u504	Mr. Comrade, sometime you can finish. You've reached eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u505	I'm hanging up. If you don't want to know what to do? I invite you to come to Evros and let you know in every detail. Perhaps your word will be differentiated. I would like to close with one more thing, Mr President, and please give me one more minute. The need to modernise the Armed Forces is undeniable. Many times history teaches us but also yells at us. In 1903 Greece, with half the land and half the population, had political leaders who took the case in their hands, reorganized and modernised the Armed Forces, assigned the leadership of Maj-Gen Sapounjaki. This army, which was reorganized at the time, is the one that destroyed the obvious victories in the First and Second Balkan War. It's this army that took part in World War I, it's this army that took off in Asia Minor, it's this army that arrived and liberated Adrianoupolis, the Forty Churches, Kessani, which unfortunately were lost because we arrived at the source, but water we didn't drink. The second historic opportunity was given to the political leadership to show its frustration and at the same time...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u506	Mr. Comrade, with all due respect, we've reached ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u507	I'm hanging up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u508	I understand, but you have to close sometime.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u509	The second chance was in 1933. This army, which emerged, created the great surveillance of 1940-1941. Now, gentlemen, it is an opportunity and you in opposition, you through parliamentary control, force the government to make decisions and encourage it, because mistakes are not forgiven at this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u510	Mr. Colleague, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u511	Thank you very much. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u512	Be well, too. Mr. Haritou from SYRIZA has the floor. Mr. Haritou, please don't do the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u513	It's been ten and a half minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u514	Of course, as you can see. It's ten minutes and forty-two seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u515	Members of the Government, with the amendment you suddenly brought to the House to create an overarch called "national coordinator" for the management of the refugee, no matter how hard you try to hide it, you confess openly that you have failed fully in the management of the refugee, that you have done so in common, as the people say, the sea. I would like to remind you, therefore, that you were spared by the Ministry of Migration Policy and you abolished it, that after you wandered into different and conflicting options, you eventually discovered the solution of the National Coordinator. I would like to tell you that you do not miss the national coordinator, you miss policies, Minister, for managing the refugee problem. Unfortunately, your amendment does not aim to manage the refugee problem, but to work on it, to cultivate a climate of insecurity and fear in societies. That is what you are actually doing in the name of humanism, in violation of democratic legitimacy. Remember, Minister. You will expose the country to international organisations for the refugee problem if you have not already done so. However, the way in which you have succeeded in bringing it to plenary is proof that you are not interested in consultation. But you must be aware that on your own sole responsibility you are plundering the climate of consensus in a bill known to have been our agreement in advance and, unfortunately, with your amendment, you are stunning it in the air. The arrangements we are discussing on the equipment systems are obviously not new. Do you know what's new? New data from today's juncture, and these are the escalation of tension on the part of the neighbour, who openly challenges our sovereign rights, is questioning the Treaty of Lausanne. That is why the debate today is taking place in reality. On the one hand, it had the positive side, the essential, the strengthening of the Armed Forces. And, of course, it has a strong symbolism that our country is shielded in defense. But there's the other side. It is visible that the risk of unwittingly or willingly spreading into an easy rhetorical escalation of the armaments race, I would say, to the end of that part of the electorate looking for such solutions. A debate, not substance, in the context of a serious planning, but communication, such as what we hear in the public speech, for the purchase of flocks F -35. To return to the debate, I would like to remind you that the political forces, which have managed for decades, do not have the best past. Remind me of holes in contracts, gray areas of opacity, hatred, subjugation and convicted ministers? You will tell me 'this is not the right time'. Possibly. However, nothing has been forgotten and will not be forgotten, when the Greek people know that all this has been seriously affected and how they have led the country to the crisis and bankruptcy. That is why, Mr President, I would like to make it clear that our agreement in the bill has something to do with our serious and responsible attitude, so that we can contribute to the procedures for upgrading the weapons systems as quickly as possible, which I would remind you is already in place for the country. After all, the arrangements that we are discussing today are a continuation of the process and the maturity of the previous period. May I remind you what you were saying when this debate took place about a year ago about these same arrangements? Or is it not the right time again? May I remind you that you left the debate, denounced scandals? So the responsible attitude we are holding today is a measure of the responsibility of each of us to the place, beyond and above temporary party benefits. Unfortunately, with the amendment you have tabled at the last minute, you are confirming that you are not a force of understanding and responsibility, but a force that wants division, unfortunately, and division.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u516	Thank you, Mr President, for the time. We really thank him. Ladies and gentlemen, a few changes are taking place. Mr Dionis Hatzidakis will now speak and then the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative has asked for the floor. Mr. Hatzidakis, come on, and please take care of the time too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u517	Mr President, I will be very time-consuming, although others have misused time, but it doesn't matter. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not intend to go on repeating what has been so well developed by the previous speakers, particularly the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Mercosur Lazaridis, who, although a valid journalist, has proved to be approved for the military.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u518	Mr. Colleague, he's nursed at the Department of Defence and he's very well aware of the issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u519	I didn't know that. I will confine myself to a number of points which, in my opinion, can be heard, Minister, in this House. We were late, yes, we were late, ladies and gentlemen, bringing this bill, which should have been here ten years ago. We should have taken care ten years ago to increase the operational readiness of the country and the Armed Forces by upgrading aircraft F-16 and Mirage. The excuses may be many and some may have a reasonable basis, but, ladies and gentlemen, we have not left our aircraft without spare parts for years and we have been forced to hold a plane to fly another aircraft. When, Minister, I was a Lieutenant General to a minister, he told me this amazing thing, which I can see after all how correct he was: if you want, he says, long-stay in politics, you should not make any decisions. And I was saying, Commander, then what did the man say? And he was absolutely right. One country, ladies and gentlemen, is counted by the other countries only if it has a blossom economy and a powerful Armed Forces. Do we have these two clues to take us seriously? Everyone can answer, as long as he knows that seven to ten years have passed since I served in the Armed Forces, namely the Navy. I want you to know that the upgrade that we will be voting on today will have a seven-year implementation horizon. As you can see, after seven years, operational data will have changed completely and we will have to turn to new and other equipment and solutions. Because another upgrade, you all understand, can't accept our already old planes. At the present time, what some people think is going to mean that our foreign policy will be imposed on it with the power of the shipowners, has the date of expiry. Today in the civilized states differences are resolved by dialogue first, by arbitration, secondly, and lastly, if these two do not thrive, with war. Is that why we need today? First, to consolidate our allies. There must be a consolidation in our allies that we are a serious country. I am still going to go one step further, to finally create this European army which will intervene when international treaties and the Law of the Sea are not implemented and violated. Ladies and gentlemen, we are few to separate us from party and personal conflicts and perceptions. So vote for this bill without any escapes and asterisks. No more delay. Homeland can't stand it anymore. In conclusion, I would like to say this: sooner or later, we will have to make some decisions. Many know what these decisions are, but in order not to be muddled, they do nothing. In this Parliament, however, we are, because we have virtue and courage. And that's why you dare.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u520	Thank you, Mr. Hatzidakis. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative shall have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u521	Honestly, Mr President, I did not intend to make use of my dentistry, but it seems to me that in this Chamber, while we all agree that we are discussing a critical draft law, which has to do with the increase in the power of the Armed Forces of the country, and we all agree that it is one of the things that unite us, ultimately we can read the same things and understand differently, we can hear the same things and understand the political forces, but, above all - and that is what concerns me - talking about national unity and national unity and constantly looking for inconveniences and opportunities to pave it down. I cannot explain otherwise the fact that the SYRIZA Press Office has been raped to issue a statement attacking the Minister of National Defence, who accuses him of talking about the responsibilities of the country's internal security army. This was made quite clear here by the Minister of National Defence in discussing this bill just an hour or less. He blames him for things that he has never said to create a climate or, if necessary, to find some reasons or on the occasion of the amendment, which he has every right to disagree with, but he has no right to blur the highest good of national unity and unity in the face of such crucial issues. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, it is not the current Minister of National Defence, Nikos Panagiotopoulos, who has mixed things up. I would like to return to your memory a date: July 2, 2015. We may now that we've gone away from events to tell you nothing the date. This date, however, is the day of the meeting of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras with the then Minister of National Defence, Panos Kammenos, in the Pentagon. This is an official meeting followed by official declarations. And then, the Minister of National Defence of the SYRIZA - ANEL government, three days before a referendum, which you described as "critical" and that it changes the course of the country - regardless of whether the Minister of National Defence then proved to be an operet - of the country's Minister of National Defence, then said "the army guarantees the country's internal security". What did he mean? Why wasn't the then Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Why are you disturbing today despite the very clear explanations of the Ministry of National Defence? Whether you make fantasy enemies or twist reality by creating and publishing make announcements. I do not want to contribute to my position, in any case, Mr President, the deterioration of the climate in the context of such a bill. Because today I have had the opportunity, Mr Dritsa, to say this morning and to confirm what you said: in fact, it is an agreement made by your own government that starts to implement with today's vote on the bill. Indeed, it is. We have not even claimed that all the speakers in the New Democracy have improved this agreement, which we have actually improved, giving our defence industry a larger amount of EUR 10 million. It is a good thing too, as was the agreement. This agreement must be implemented with the support of as many political forces as possible, because it is a first small but at the same time a great step towards increasing the power of the country and, of course, so that the country can plan the next steps as well, because technology is progressing, because our competitors in this troubled neighbourhood, which we have had the chance to live, are constantly equipped. Of course, very well and very peacefully all this sounds about the unruly race of armaments, but the data is different. The pressures are different. And it costs us a lot more when our neighbours have the opportunity to pressure us. It costs us much more than human resources and financial resources. On the contrary, when they cannot force us - and this is what happens when we are strong - we have savings and human and economic resources. That is why I would say that Greece has an obligation to see the armaments issue. Unfortunately, we don't live in the best neighborhood in the world. We live in a neighborhood that was always upset. It's the responsibility of all the political forces. Because in our Parliament, governments are changing. The homeland, however, remains one for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u522	Thank you. Mr Athanasios Kavada has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u523	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Minister, ladies and gentlemen. The need to strengthen the deterrent power of the country is now perceived by everyone and expresses the overwhelming majority of Greek citizens. Our country is facing a direct threat to Turkey's sovereign rights. The complex international environment does not allow for reassurance. It is a given that the participation of our country in the European Union and NATO and the appropriate territory there is to develop strategic cooperation with Israel and Egypt, offers the opportunity for diplomatic weapons that will strengthen our position. However, invoking the rules of international law is not enough, when dealing with a neighbour who despises international law. After all, Turkey's recent agreement with its euphemist Libyan government is clearly showing it. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to defend our territorial integrity and our sovereign rights, we must strengthen the combat and deterrent power of the Armed Forces. This objective serves the bill of the Ministry of National Defence we are discussing today. In particular, the programme to upgrade the F-16 of the Air Force, in agreement with the company ‘LOCKHEED’, provides for the modernisation and operational upgrading of the aircraft. Their strengthening with electronic scanning radar, with modern communication systems, new weapons, modern sensors, but also security systems, such as the system of avoiding conflict with the ground, make F-16 almost worthy of fifth generation aircraft such as F-35. As I come from the ranks of the Air Force, I consider this agreement to be of course strengthening the combat capacity of our Air Force, which is already at a very high level. And we all owe a great deal of thanks to the pilots, but also to all the members of the Air Force that they held - and they hold - at a high level the combat power of the weapon. They are the first line of defence in the country, they defend the national airspace every day against the violations in which Turkey is systematically taking place. However, the content of the agreement, ladies and gentlemen, also has many benefits for the Greek Defence Industry, which must be developed and constitute a comparative advantage for the country. On the basis of the agreement, ODA will undertake to implement all phases of the F-16 modernisation and upgrading program here in Greece. The only exception is work on the design, development and supply of electronic devices and on the development of the required software to be done by the manufacturer of a company in the United States. Secondly, it ensures a task of hundreds of millions of dollars from its participation in the programme, which is very important for its viability, but also for the creation of new jobs. Also, the implementation of this project will leave the Greek Defence Industry as a reserve for new technologies and infrastructure for the future. In the same logic of strengthening the militarity and effectiveness of the Armed Forces, the improvement of the military system of the Mirage 2000 aircraft extends over a period of seven years. In fact, these are agreements with three companies concerning the construction, electronic systems and engine of the aircraft concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion includes the agreement on the settlement of the dispute between the Hellenic Republic and the company ThyssenKRUPP and the Greek shipyards, an agreement which has been giving a solution to a problem that has been dating for ten years. The agreement concerned the materials that the company should have delivered to the Navy. On the basis of this agreement, the company waives the right to receive from the Greek shipyard any additional amount in exchange for the extra materials. On the other hand, the Greek shipyards waive the corresponding right to receive from the Greek State the remaining amount for the extra materials, which is EUR 15 million, which had been ordered by the Arbitration Court. In addition, the Navy will receive the materials necessary to carry out maintenance work in the submarines, not only now, but also in the future. Finally, I consider it particularly positive that the provision allowing the payment of the debts of the military hospitals and the EBRD Foundation, which were caused by expenditure on the supply of health medicinal products, orthopaedic material, chemical reagents for service. With regard to the staff of the long-term volunteers and professional soldiers transferred to the House of Permanent Officials, on the one hand, they ensure that they remain in the service and, on the other hand, they ensure the uninterrupted promotion of the Armed Forces from long-term volunteers who joined the Armed Forces from 1985 to 1990 to the extent of the Lieutenant and the other branches of the Armed Forces respectively. So far with the existing legal regime, soon after the transfer, they were caught by the age limits that apply to the Officers and Officers and would be released prematurely. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim is through these upgrades to fly F-16 and Mirage, covering with their wings the Aegean sky and defending our national airspace and our sovereign rights. National defence is a field of national unity and unity and is not offered for party controversy. The strengthening of the deterrent power of the Armed Forces must be a sign of convergence of all political forces. And I don't want to believe, gentlemen of SYRIZA, that you're in the pretext of using an amendment to vote against the entire bill. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, with a sense of national duty, we should all vote in favour, thereby increasing the strength of the country's Armed Forces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u524	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for the time. Mr Blucho from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u525	We should have the greatest tolerance, Mr President. We usually speak last.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u526	You're right, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u527	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the historic juncture that we are experiencing with our neighbouring countries, our country is facing immediate issues of territorial integrity and national survival, given the well-known non-existence of long-term, long-term national strategy, acceptable universally, abstractly binding on our entire political system. If we make this assumption, common sense is required rather than prophetic insight to predict that the course of our future will depend on whether we will now carry out what we have not done in the past. What is required? The self-restraint of the political system, which contributes to the creation of a permanent and quiet system, ladies and gentlemen, a framework which neutralizes temptation and depreciates the vibrations of party exploitation of national issues. Incompetence towards self-restraint is a characteristic of teenage immaturity. Your weakness also acts stimulantly in other forces, and it cannot be upgraded to fertile criticism - you see the speech of the Chief of Officer Antipolitics the other day - the policy of overheating on national issues simply because your entropy is squeezing a full-blown factor and getting bored by confusing greedy epes. And this may be your strategic approach to a lot - your representative has suggested a few - but the national issues must be minded and do not bruise, because you are in danger of being called a cymbal arrogant. They are also given the geopolitical objectives, as they are shaped on the one hand, and our national interests on the other. National vigilance is required that painful realities are not circumvented in order to afford a cool strategic analysis. The government shows both temper and restraint and determination. In the realistic illustration of the situation with the expansion of Turkey, with immigration, neither the nationalist wards nor the international dreams nor, of course, the small and medium-sized statures of reliefist illusion that they can shrink political co-management and dialogue, bearing in mind the security that their shoulders will not lift the burden of lasting historical responsibilities. That's what's about an unscrupulous government. Ladies and gentlemen, the national strategy is neither right nor left nor nationalist nor internationalist. It's everything depending on the circumstances. And we're not all talking and we're not talking about everything. We are talking a little, responsible people with cold reason, without ideological censorship, who will complete the data and capabilities, in order to help the responsible leadership in its work. And today the responsible leadership is fully aware of and aware of its duty. It doesn't cause any noise. It doesn't act like it used to. And this awareness is multi-level, especially in the logic of the election of the economy on a productive basis, because only in this way can you support the defence of the country and strengthen its deterrent power, internationally recovering our lost credibility, putting our economic perspective on solid foundations, regenerating our national self-confidence by design and appropriate now targeting. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand, the irreversible chatter on the other hand, on the other hand, is not just a sign of spiritual provincialism, they harm the place. Having regard to the conclusion of the speech of the Minister of National Defence, who stated very gladly that the Armed Forces must now be upgraded, it is now time, not tomorrow, to put ourselves before our responsibilities, when our noisy neighbour is roaring and overseeing our rights, trespassing every concept of international law, manifesting mutated "erdoganism" as upgraded "civilism". It is necessary and imperative to maintain, upgrade and modernise our weapon systems. In adopting this resolution, the Government, and in particular the leadership of the Ministry of National Defence, calls on us to ratify the Convention on Modernisation of these, a contract which, in addition, provides for the exploitation of the Greek Defence Industry, which is extremely important, in terms of socio-economic, ensuring that this is not mined on terms and conditions of opacity. It is clear and not even references to miserable realities are needed now. The Hellenic Defence Industry can develop again in a business and synonymous scientific and technological diamond in our country. The worst scenario - we all wish on the contrary - is to replace a serious strategic debate by atrocious witch hunting, with micro-party noisy. Some people have spoken about the need for a financial clarification of the red lines, as if we do not have our sovereign rights, as if we are not all aware that any declining Greekism today will be given an eschatological mood. Let it be the current starting point for national reconstruction on the basis of the philosopheria of Greek traditions, the targeting of hierarchical national interests and the pursuit of an iron coexistence. We wish the current situation to begin looking for a national approach to survival. "Mother and father, and other ancestors of honor, focusing on the paw, and upon the most holy, and upon the great destiny, and on the gods, and on the people of them have." This is the homeland, which deserves more respect and is worth our time serving at every moment and in every way. And when day after day our homeland is threatened, none of us can feel safe and free. In recent post-government years serious mistakes have been made, which discouraged Ankara and threw water into the mill of Turkish aggression. It would be appropriate to realize these mistakes, to avoid them in the future, such as the fact that the Turks are addressing the inner audience, which was developed by Greek opinion leaders and finally proved to be unacceptablely reassuring, such as the illusion of the humiliation or Europeanism of Turkey and the illusion that we will improve Greek-Turkish relations, by changing school history books. Greece and national security issues must be top priority. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u528	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Vasiliadis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u529	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating today concerns the regulation of important and urgent matters of competence of the Ministry of National Defence. It's moving on two axes. The first is the modernisation and upgrading of weapons systems of the Air Force and the Navy. In particular, a proposal by the American company manufacturer of F-16 fighter aircraft is being adopted to carry out work on modernising and upgrade eighty-four aircraft worth some $ 280 million. This will result in an intensification of the operational performance and dynamics of the armed systems. At the same time, domestic Greek Defence Industry and especially the Greek Air Industry, which will absorb over 70% of this money. The three draft framework agreements between the Directorate-General for Defence Equipment and Investment and three French company manufacturers are also approved with regard to support for maintaining high availability and efficiency of Mirage 2000 and Mirage 2000-5 fighter aircraft. The agreements relate to support for the structural part of our electronic systems and engines for our fighters over a period of seven years. And the third issue, concerning weapon systems, is the modernisation of submarines class 209. It closes the issue of the additional materials of the modernisation programme "POSEDIAN II", which for years had been devoid of the Hellenic Navy materials which could be used as spare parts for Greek submarines. The Greek authorities benefit from this agreement by some 20 million euros. The second axis of the bill we are called upon today to vote moves around important and urgent issues of competence of the Ministry of National Defence. It is planned to be able to repay accumulated debts from military hospitals and the Military Equity Foundation. These debts have resulted from costs incurred in the supply of medicinal products, health and orthopaedic material, chemical reagents and services and are a consequence of the inconsistent requirements of hospitals by social security institutions for the provision of hospital services. Care-raising topics are regulated for long-term volunteers and professional gunmen in the direction of facilitating both the branches and the executives themselves. It also regulates issues relating to the civil staff of the Ministry of National Defence for the smoother functioning of the Board of Directors of the Ministry, as well as the mobility of staff within the Ministry. Finally, it is extended for a further six months to provide evidence of tax and insurance information to the Hellenic Defence Systems, so that together with some additional arrangements, it will facilitate the financial activity of the company. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress here the cross-party agreement on the importance of this bill. During the work of the competent Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs, despite any objections to the details, a climate of consensus prevailed. And I urge you to show this in plenary with the vote in favour of the bill. Despite the fact that this bill has nothing to do with Turkey's increasing provocativeness, we should not overlook the timing of its vote. Turkey's strategy is clear: it seeks to increase tension for its own reasons, particularly internal policy. The Turkish government chooses to highlight Greece as another enemy, as it has done with almost all its neighbours. And I am pleased that the Greek side with its calm and effective moves has not given the Turkish regime the right to use this strategic intensity increase politically. However, ladies and gentlemen, Greece's attitude to all provocations should be based on two pillars, effective diplomacy and, above all, a strong deterrent. That is why I call on you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u530	Thank you, Mr Vassiliou, for keeping time. Mr Liutas has the floor from New Democracy. Mr Colleagues, I hope you will follow the example of the previous colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u531	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today in plenary session of the Greek Parliament, we are discussing a bill which sets out and implements key objectives related to the armouring of the defence and strengthening of the security of our country. This draft law, in particular, aims to strengthen the proper functioning of the Armed Forces by means of multi-dimensional and very important regulations. These are regulations both in terms of strengthening our armed system and solving problems in the social security and care system for those who serve in the Armed Forces. They are arrangements that are coming to prove today in a geopolitical environment that finds strong challenges and great tensions that, for the New Democracy, our country's national defence is a crucial objective, a goal with which we all fight with all our forces. Initially, with regard to the objective of strengthening our armed system, this bill describes key agreements aimed at strengthening our Air Force and our Navy. For Air Force, the conclusion of an agreement on the modernisation and support of military aircraft F-16 leads, on the one hand, to the strengthening of security and, on the other, to the substantial support and development of the Greek Defence Industry sector. This development as a fact is very important. It reflects the benefit that international cooperation, always in the direction of defending national interest, can create in a country. This benefit is initially translated into our country’s defensive shield. However, it is also translated into the formation of those conditions that can lead to the growth of our economy's productive power. In addition, with regard to the Air Force sector, the objective of strengthening the efficiency of our weapons system Mirage also creates an important benefit for our country's defence. In the same direction, we are also moving the arrangements that we are voting on today and which effectively shield the proper functioning of the Hellenic Navy. With today's bill the Ministry of National Defence, the responsible Minister Nikos Panagiotopoulos and, of course, our Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, prove that they decisively place our national interest at the top of the hierarchy of our political aiming. National security, and at the same time our objective for a strong economy, is not under any negotiation on the Government of New Democracy and Prime Minister Mitsotakis. We remain absolutely consistent and focus on a strategy that constantly multiplys the benefits to all areas of politics, both for the defence and the economy and for the well-being of our own society. In contrast to what is known on all black pages of economics - and not just - our history, today the New Democracy works differently. Unlike old practices that reflected a painful quality and cost combination for the country, our Government does not harm the national interest. On the contrary, today our objective is whole national and patriotic. Our goal reflects our national attitude, a attitude based on our responsibility to pursue the maximum benefit for Greeks and our homeland, a attitude that is identified with our vision of a new patriotism. Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time as this bill, the necessary arrangements are introduced to settle outstandings left by the previous government in matters of social security and welfare with regard to the Armed Forces. Today, the Government of New Democracy fights and effectively gives the necessary solutions so that the uninterrupted operation of social security and care systems is the rule and reality in our country and not the exception and a utopian reality. The lives of the Armed Forces are a supreme good. The remarkable thing is that the state is called upon to defend and promote, away from setbacks and ideas, away from ignorance and indifference. The state cannot allow the lives of the Armed Forces and their families to be threatened by economic causes. It is with this life that women and men of the Armed Forces are ready at all times to defend our country. The goal of our Government is crystal clear and unnegotiable. The Greek society must live better and live better. To achieve this, however, this is the basic prerequisites for our country's security and a sustainable economy. Security is a prerequisite for social peace and development. Sustainable development, always based on a policy that promotes and ensures law, leads to the well-being of our society. In combination, military and economic power can lead our country to play a decisive, catalytic and leading role, what it deserves. It is the role that Greece intends to play historically in our geopolitical area. Therefore, through agreements such as those we are discussing and voting today and through our policy to defend the prosperity of society and the Armed Forces, we can achieve a great deal. We can achieve in particular the critical objective of strengthening our power and the multidimensional radiation that our country can transmit worldwide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u532	Thank you to my colleague for the time. We will then go to Mr. Booba from the Greek Solution and finish with Mr. Akuppi. Then we will continue with the rapporteurs for two minutes and finish the process. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-eight students and students and three educational attendants from the 3rd Gymnasium of Kilkis (first section). We welcome you. It happens that the Member of your county, Mr. Francis, is here. I don't see anyone else. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Booba, here you are. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u533	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thucydides also said another sentence: 'The war on a violent tutor'. We need to take an example. The Armed Forces are our family. It is also at peacetime that those who contribute to the natural disasters, with rockets once carried and carried voters. It is our so-called 'fanny' which serves us at difficult times. Athanasios Kalligris, Anastasios Georgiou: They are two names that we must not forget, Minister. They are the ones who invented Artemis 30, our anti-missile system for which a great deal has been heard, which could also have an export character. They are also all those who since 1972 took the "STAGIER HELLA", the subsidiary of the Austrian industry, and despite the crisis - you remember it - some time ago, we had taken the Leopard assembling to order Qatar. Go into co-production, as Poland does. It started with 25% and today Poland produces 51% of PATRIOT missiles. Strengthen university research centres to cooperate with the Armed Forces. I'm going to invoke Nikolao Sampai. I read his article. He's an economist. I don't know if you know. I don't know him personally. It makes specific proposals, which can really be raised by the Greek Defence Industry. There is no need, ladies and gentlemen, for Greece to manufacture aircraft, fight aircraft and submarines. However, we must all show a good person, regardless of ideological navigation. Because, as the saying says: "Policy with party, nation with perfection." Dimitrakopoulos has written his book. Our nation needs a coexistence for what is called "the Armed Forces", to love our Army, our Navy and our Air Force, to become a National Defence Expenditure Council, greater cooperation with universities in a research centre. There are warehouses in Kalamata, Lamia and Volos, he says, because many battles have been decided on what we are saying in communication, there have been so-called logistics on drones, not only on the issue of the Armed Forces, but also on smart agriculture and elsewhere. Give a weight to the research programs, produce drones and exploit the knows-how in high technology with our students. There are bright minds, take advantage of them in the good sense. Israel: They work in the defence industry in a state of seven and fifty thousand workers. They have achieved and exported over 9 billion dollars, and through their defence industry they have given a solution to the subject of medicine. They discovered Crohn's gut syndrome through their defensive industry. So we can go and create logistics drone production, better contact the National Information Service for cybersecurity attacks. I do not want to speak again in an article, because otherwise we would negotiate whether we were talking about our fighter aircraft, which was fresher our fleet - to say that - ten years ago. Why are we talking about a Single Defence Expenditure Council? The defensive equipment thing has given a bad precedent. The name's out. It's toxic. You see what happens, old submarines. Is that a scoliosis? Is it by racing? Is that Lubago? It is the dismantling of public money, as in the health sector, as in many other respects. However, there must be a Single National Defence Expenditure Council here, so that it can really be accounted for for by transparency and tenders. I'm going to the other part now. Make use of human resources. As many equipment programs as we have, if our soldiers, our officers, our officers must enjoy equality and equality. They manage the crises. A group of "insanes" - within introductory terms the word - which is currently in the UCMs, which is in the submarines, which are in the Paratroopers' Forces make a difference. There's no gun lacking, no body. Mr Stefanis is not here, and he has served in Armoured Armoured - and good for him! - with a lot of discrimination and a trainer from the School of Hope and he was in NATO and he was in business centres, to say: It is incomprehensible for us - and I say it, because I also feel proud that I served in the paratroopers - to get Mr Stefanis the risk allowance to the maintenance of the paratroopers every six months - Minister, you may not know it - and incorporate it into the basic salary. Do you know what that means? Increase in insurance contributions by 6.1% and request retrospectively from 2017. What does that mean? To give 1,500 euros back, the Special Forces, the paratroopers, as well as the flight allowance for pilots, whose homes - you know, I imagine - are in the air bases to make it possible for aircraft take-offs to take place. It's incomprehensible. Do not exploit - I do not tell you personally - this madness and love, because everyone who served in the Special Forces is in responsible statements. People have been paid up to maintenance normally, as they have been paid for all these years. And another thing that matters: to prevent officers, officers and soldiers from being disarmed, but especially those who have been serving permanently in the Armed Forces for years. There is Law 3852, which is interpreted properly, mainly by Mr Stefanis for people who want to go to border areas near the place where they have been elected, otherwise do not give them the right to be elected as elected representatives of the government. There are many areas I know of, but I do not want to identify them geographically, where, while all civil servants and military officials receive the allowance, while taking the corresponding molecules, do not qualify as border checks. This has finally got to stop. There is the nr.4860 that SYRIZA voted for, which simulates all civil servants and uniforms really to be in the same fate. So there should be no discrimination. There's something else I want you to see. Permanents in the Army have no right to go to an enslaved military doctor outside, while on the contrary their family can go. They can't while they're insured. This is of importance because they must feel that they are enjoying equality and equality. The morality we talked about must be immoral. We need to raise the spirit of the Armed Forces. Because whatever equipment you have, what is most based on is psychiatry, psychology, morality, pride and stature of the Armed Forces. I want you to see this personally, my Minister, on the subject of Law 4860, which simulates them all and Law 3852 so that they are not considered to be second-class citizens. Because they also have that right under the Constitution. As far as the risk allowance for paratroopers is concerned, I should also like to thank my fellow Member, Mr. Michalis Kourtides, from Drama who notified me. It is incomprehensible today to deprive these children of what they deserve in order to keep their homeland. With virtue and boldness for our Navy and our Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u534	Mr. Colleague, did I hear you said something about Crohn's disease?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u535	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u536	I never comment, but because we are being watched by people, to tell you that Crohn's disease was discovered in America by Dr. Crohn.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u537	I read it in Mr. Sampai's article. You can see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u538	I'm telling you this was done in 1932 by Crohn.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u539	For the form of pill, not Crohn's disease. The Israelites discovered the pill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u540	Okay. Let's finish with Mr. Cappi for seven minutes. And then the rapporteurs will be given the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u541	Not two minutes. We have the amendments too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u542	Thank you very much, Mr President. Our country's geostrategic and geopolitical position has always raised security issues of our territorial integrity. After all, in the Eastern Mediterranean, we are constantly seeing a number of potentially threatening situations. There are few times when our neighbouring states, ignoring our national sovereignty and threatening our territorial integrity, have shown provocative behaviour. They are no longer a phenomenon for Greek data, the periods of increased tension in the Aegean Sea, which are largely the result of the obvious questioning of our sovereign rights on the part of Turkey or increased migratory flows, in which the risk of transporting within our borders of international terrorism and international crime increases. Our country is facing these challenges in Turkey choosing the path of sobering, avoiding tensions, focusing on diplomatic approaches. Our national strategy, as established by the current government, is, among other things, characterised by the pursuit of internationalisation of the issue of Turkish challenges. Indeed, it should be understood by the international community that Turkey's uninterrupted escalating challenges are at the expense of the climate of stability and security in the Eastern Mediterranean region, while directly and indirectly affecting the international environment. It is also Turkey's usual practice to pursue the manipulation of the international community with a view to serving its geopolitical interests. In addition to this, the Turkish Government has supported and implemented the refugee - immigration. Even today when Turkey plays the same dangerous game, moving the threads and seeking benefits from the informal war between the Arab countries and the Libyan Government. In addition, the government's aim is to cultivate good, productive and constructive climate with the countries - players in the Eastern Mediterranean region. A characteristic example is the development of bilateral relations with Egypt, while in the same context there is a desire to continuously develop communication, consultation and cooperation with other states that act and claim interests in the region. In the context of the above aims to protect security and territorial integrity in our country, the overall upgrading of the integrity of the Hellenic Armed Forces is also sought. Therefore, this draft law introduces urgent arrangements concerning, among other things, the defence planning and operational preparedness of the Greek Armed Forces. Upgrading and modernising our aircraft and submarines, but also meeting all the needs of military hospitals and military services are just some of the arrangements of the bill under discussion. Of course, our country's intention is not to respond with logic, you will allow me to speak a trumpet neighbour to the confessed and, on a case-by-case basis, off-limit Turkish provocativeness. Greece has always been a state defender of peace and stability, free from its logic of expansion and committed to finding calm solutions, mainly through diplomacy and dialogue. Therefore, the fact that with this bill we are stepping up the merits of the Greek Armed Forces is completely inconsistent with the events taking place in the Aegean Sea over the last period. However, in danger of being graphic, I fully agree with the well-known saying that, if you want peace, prepare for war. And that is precisely the logic of the deterrence that gives the Government of New Democracy the incentive to upgrade this worthy of the Armed Forces. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the neighbours know very well that we have the soul to defend the territories of our country by the end. Now, of course, they'll know that beyond the soul, we have the means to do it. They will well think about it before entering the dangerous and unpredictable logic of causing hot episodes. In conclusion, I want to make it clear that Greece was not and will never become a state of war. We have lived slavery as a nation and will never impose it on another nation. However, we shall never, under any circumstances, allow the Greekness to be called into question nor a stone on our territory. It is time, after all, to prove to the international community that, apart from any diplomatic or military support from our allies, Greece can and has the means to defend its own interests, its territory, and the security of its citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u543	Thank you. The President has the floor for a minute for his amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u544	I will take the floor to state that there will be amendments tabled, namely, Amendment Nos 124 and 1 of the Ministry of Health, the general number 125 and the special number 2 of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, the general number 126 and specific number 3 of the Ministry of Finance and the general number 127 and a specialist number 4 of the Ministry of Defence, for which so much discussion has taken place. Therefore, the title of the bill of the Ministry of National Defence will also be changed, and it will be followed by the following: ‘Consolidation of the themes of the Ministry of National Defence and other provisions’. This is in terms of the technical part. And from there on, I should like to make a final suggestion to all the parties in Parliament, since, in principle, we agree that the Armed Forces should be equipped and upgraded, we can vote or vote against which we want, even the controversial one, came in the way that some disagree or agree with it, but I do not think we should refuse the Armed Forces of the country to reach this vast cross-party consensus on the extremely important issue of their strengthening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u545	We're starting now with Mrs. Sakurafa for four minutes. Even though you've only talked nine minutes, let's talk about it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u546	Much less, Mr President. Thank you. I will now be very brief, because anyway in plenary today, but also in the meetings of the Commission, there has been an in-depth debate and we have all been in detail on all matters. Personally, we have also raised the issues which concern us openly and why we are voting'residents' at first, as well as, aware of the urgency and necessity, we have said that we will be positive in the articles, with all the reservations we have expressed in the Commission and in the House, with the main reservation that we are talking about the absence of long-term national planning, as we have stressed, and hopefully and hopefully, Minister, at some point, that we will overcome this and not go to another process that will be more substantial. I would also like to say something about the amendments. We will be negative on all the amendments, except 126/3, in view of the fact that an amendment is coming, such as the one tabled today by the Ministry of National Defence with the State Secretary, which, as has been said, is an entire bill. I think that the Minister should really, because he made an appeal to Members to vote positively in the bill, to withdraw it and to introduce it as a bill in order to enable at least an integrated debate to take place on an amendment, which is really essential and must be discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u547	Mr Mylonakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u548	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, from the outset as Greek Solution, we said that we had come to the debate on this bill with a positive attitude. We have said so at the first moment and in terms of the principle and the articles, apart from Article 6, in which we shall vote 'the present', which concerns the case where I have mentioned to you about the officials and, in particular, the second paragraph. But what I did not understand, Mr Minister, and I would like you to clarify this is because this attack on the Greek Solution and especially against Mr Velopoulos for verbal magic, genealogies, etc. They're not verbal scars. You know very well that he appreciates you. But I think you've exaggerated too much. You, Minister, are here to find solutions. We agree on that. I would like to say to you, however, that we have talked about Amendment No 127 with the seven articles which are essentially a bill. We appreciate - and you personally understand - that the amendment should not have come when it came. I am also sure that, if you could express yourself freely, you would say that this amendment is wrong, this bill in general - because it is a bill - with the seven articles. That is a philosophy of Gerapetritis, in my view, with the ultimate state. The Prime Minister takes everything under his umbrella. The amendment refers to the danger to national security and social stability. Somewhere he's talking about a refugee storm. What kind of refugee? Is it a refugee matter ultimately or a migrant? In our view it is illegal immigration. You spoke yourself and you were afraid to say it. You just said the word "invasion" and SYRIZA made you notice, you changed them. It's an invasion, Minister. Don't be afraid to say the word. It's an invasion. This is an invasion of illegal immigrants into our country. It's Erdogan's plan. We must clarify this and understand it. Within one month the government has brought four ways of dealing with the serious issue of illegal immigration. Eventually which of all will be applied? We will be here to watch, because the problem is now a terrible and incredibly difficult one. The amendment also states that expenditure on the actions undertaken under paragraph 1 - that is, the national coordination, etc. - they will be covered by either the ordinary budget or the public investment programme in excess of the registered appropriations of the Ministry of National Defence. In other words, whatever money it takes, which is going to be a lot of millions - and you understand that, because it is not just feeding, it is too much - it will go from the state budget and from public investment expenditure and, above all, from the registered credits of the Ministry of National Defence. These costs will be made without any tenders. Now, whether you consider it honest and serious, and that there will be no problems, and we will not come here to blame those who are involved, it is a matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u549	Thank you, Mr. Mylonakis. Mr Papapastasis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u550	Thank you, Mr President. The JRC Parliamentary spokesman has already been placed on the amendment of our original decision and attitude to the whole, but also on the individual articles of the bill of the Ministry of National Defence, after tabling Amendment 127, for which - that is an answer to the position and call of the Minister - we refuse to participate in the acceptance of an amendment which is extremely dangerous. First of all, there is a really screaming hypocrisy in the general part of this amendment in relation to its justification. It is said that according to the UN's annual report on World Trends - they call it that, as if it were the sun coming out of the east and set in the west - that seventy million eight hundred thousand people have been displaced because of violence, war or persecution. So who is responsible for this violence, for these wars, for these persecutions? The government hypocritically hides that they are the ones that it calls its allies, NATO, the European Union, the United States of America. Greece then states that there is a growing flow of refugees and economic migrants. So what is the role of the Greek Governments, the New Democracy and the previous one, in this growing flow of refugees and economic migrants? The government is consciously hiding that Greece has also joined directly and indirectly through the provision of facilities in Souda, Larissa, etc. Finally, the issue of granting asylum and the right of permanent establishment is testing the limits of European solidarity. What is this so-called 'European solidarity'? The states of the European Union on the one hand take part in the imperialist formations, take the world out, and on the other, the'smuppies' - yes, these sad people, these tragic figures,'smuppiles' call them - do not want them in their court, but the 'Dublin' entangles them in Greece. As far as the trunk of the amendment is concerned, I will tell you quite clearly: it includes a new hybrid armed body. Whether he likes it or doesn't like it exactly. And we need to see what this amendment describes by reading between lines. This body, to be set up, has a mission, has a setup, has equipment, has training, and most importantly has an environment of action, it faces, i.e. threats. So, the Department of National Defence, the government's been dealing with threats. And in order for threats to have been processed, a variety of different scenarios will certainly have been worked out. We challenge the government to tell the truth to the people. We reveal and say: The government is making a realm, armed suppression. Tomorrow you'll have it ready, equipped, tested, trained. You will turn it against every threat and when demanded and against the people. It's the order given. And don't move your head, Minister. It is a reality that was established in Lisbon in 2010 at the NATO Summit, with Prime Minister George Papandreou. You continue on these steps. Already the Armed Forces were involved in internal security through the so-called security of the Olympic Games, in exercises in units of the Armed Response Forces. That's what they called them eucalyptus. Today the mixed armed force is being created. The course of militarisation of the Greek society is now uncovered. However, our people have a proverb - and I shall end, Mr President - 'The wing is broken, the evil of its head'. And if that sounds a little threatening, it's not at all, it's exactly the way you hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u551	Mr. Frangidis has the floor from the Change Movement. Mr. Francis, you have the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u552	I'll probably be shorter. Thank you, Mr President. I think we have come to the conclusion of a debate on a bill of crucial importance for both the security of the country and, above all, for the strengthening of the Armed Forces. We all know that we have been experiencing a difficult economic period for years, which unfortunately has not left the environment of the Armed Forces unaffected. In fact, we are living in an environment where geostrategics in the Mediterranean, in the Aegean Sea, are too dangerous. This same environment requires, for the safety of the country and the strengthening of the Armed Forces. The Ministry of Defence bill is a bill we believe to be crucial and it is of national importance to guarantee the sovereignty of our country. Above all, it seeks to achieve greater efficiency, but also to strengthen the fighting capacity of the Armed Forces in the face of the new challenges that we are experiencing. And of course, they will be Armed Forces such that they can guarantee the integrity of our country. We criticised various articles, but our attitude was always responsible, in a spirit of constructiveness, which has only one purpose: to avoid phenomena and considerations that might not strengthen transparency and give rise to suspicion. I say this because, Minister, the launching of procedures for the implementation of the F-16 aircraft upgrade programme was initiated by the former Minister of Defence of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and, unfortunately, the whole process does not prevent questions that are not clearly clear. It was therefore necessary that the procedures followed be as transparent as possible. As we have said - and I have said before - the environment we live is very difficult for our country. It's unpredictable. We have a neighbour who moves in a dangerous way and of course poses risks to our national sovereignty. There is therefore no luxury of disrupting national unity and consensus, I would say, of all the political forces, elements that are needed to progress quickly, effectively, decisively, modernise and upgrade F-16, the high fighting of Mirage, the reinforcement of submarines. The Change Movement from the beginning said that it stands positive at the outset and on the articles, against the bill and that is why it votes for it. As far as the amendments are concerned, the first three amendments, Nos 124, 125 and 126, are positive and we support them. In Amendment 127, Minister, despite the fact that we believe that there is a need for the creation of this single body to deal with the refugee - migrant, unfortunately, that the administration of economics, which we do not know, does not know who the budget will be and, of course, that it can be managed independently of the amount of money to go through with direct awards without tenders, brings us to the point that we do not support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u553	Mr. Francis, you're lucky because they heard you, as you're about to see, students from Kilkis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the 3rd High School Kilkis (Second Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Dritsas has the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u554	Thank you, Mr President. It is absolutely true here, Mr President, that the 'zero before the end of the day was being cut off'. We contributed to a series of meetings both in the Committee on Foreign and Defence and in the Committee on Military Programmes. We have also worked with the ministers and the chairmen of committees and with the other parties, and I think we have followed a parliamentary procedure very closely, to discuss a matter which we were all interested in and considered to be extremely important, to ensure, in the best possible ways, that the Armed Forces' armaments facilities are suited, so that, as we have said in committee, we can also vote on the articles in favour of this draft law as well. And all of a sudden, another bill comes - because this is what this is all about - which is not just a simple amendment with many articles, and that is why it is another bill. It is a bill of completely different direction, but also a bill setting so many institutional, administrative, management, social, economic and other issues, which it requires, this draft law by Mr Mitsotakis - who panics increasingly resorts to the extreme right of his party - ad hoc thorough processing because it overturns the institutional compositions of the Greek state and indeed, his hard core, the Security and Armed Forces, the responsibilities, the relationships, the overlapping, everything. It overthrows the surveillance and protection of borders, fundamental difference, overthrows everything. That is what the government wants to do, to put it in the judgement of constant meetings, hearing of bodies and everything else. So, a bomb brings Mr Mitsotakis, overthrowing the climate of consensus on the key theme of the Armed Forces, but also on the parliamentary and political order and democracy itself, because the four or five previous plans of the previous months have not succeeded. How can they succeed? He doesn't know anything about all this! Having considered refugees and immigrants as 'invaders', even if the representative of the JRC was right before, in the rapporteur's report on this amendment, he invokes elements of the enormous increase in refugee and migration flows across the globe. Who Erdogan and all these simple interpretations? Therefore, Mr President, in this new bill, which is now the beginning of it, the amendment - because that guarantees the mark - we cannot vote in principle, as we have voted in committee. We shall vote 'the present'. We will also not be able to vote against the entire bill and vote against it. And responsibility is all the government. We are holding a responsible attitude to this. Of course, we will be voting on all the articles in the National Defence Ministry bill, just as we have said in committee, one by one. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And give me one more minute, Mr President. We will also vote on Article 1 on the supplementary agreement to upgrade F-16, which we have already launched since 2018, by our own government. And here to add the upgrade to the employees of the ODA. We will also vote on Article 2 on Mirage and Article 3 on replacement parts of the Hellenic Navy in relation to the loose ends of the old submarine contract. We shall vote on Article 4 on military hospitals, which we have all agreed there that we should also have a comprehensive debate below. We shall vote on Article 5 for long-term volunteers and professional gunmen. We shall vote on Article 6 on the arrangements of the civil servants of the Ministry of National Defence, despite some of the points we have made, but in any case they do not overturn the positive direction of the bill. We shall vote on Article 7 on the Hellenic Defence Systems, where there remains to be a more organised debate on them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We will also vote for Amendment 124/1 by the Ministry of Health, which takes the number as Article 8, with the labelling that I made to the Minister for Health, Mr Kikilia, when he presented it and pledged to see it and deal with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u555	You'll vote anyway, Mr. Dritsa. That will be the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u556	I have to say what we're going to vote on. It is a crucial issue for each party to communicate to Parliament what it is voting on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u557	But it'll show you what you'll vote for.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u558	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u559	All right, keep going. It's just, you've been over six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u560	In Amendment No 125/2, numbered as Article 9, we shall vote 'yes'. It is positive and shows that the rapid preparation of local spatial plans is absolutely essential. In Amendment No 126/3, which is numbered as Article 10, we shall vote'residents'. We recognise that there is a question with these regions, but we do not think that the way in which this amendment proposes to deal with the problem is appropriate. Now, the other articles mentioned in the amendment are not possible...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u561	Thank you, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u562	Let me say one thing, Mr President. I was Minister of Shipping when the country accepted in 2015 and 2016 close to a million immigrants and refugees. For those who are talking about security, I assure you that the Greek Police and the Greek Port Authority have recorded almost all the incomings and identified them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u563	If there are open borders...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u564	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u565	There are no open sea borders.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u566	If the north border was off...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u567	Please, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u568	The Geneva Convention says that it is a mandatory channel of reception. Learn letters about democracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u569	Mr. Dritsa, finish it up. It's late right now, so we can do cocks. It's Friday afternoon.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u570	I am referring to the Geneva Convention. There are no open and closed borders.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u571	Mr. Dritsa, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u572	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u573	Finish with Mr. Lazarides from New Democracy for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u574	Thank you very much, Mr President. The anointed Greek people say the miracles last three days. SYRIZA's responsibility lasted three hours! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'll say two words soon. The government has a plan, and it has a plan on how to get the country out of the crisis with which you handed it over, Mr. Dritsa, to get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u575	To Orban, your partner to tell you...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u576	You were talking about open borders. The former Prime Minister spoke and said the sea had no borders. You handed us over to Moria, you created Idomeni, where in the mud of Idomeni the humanity of SYRIZA submerged. So that's what you're going to do in New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u577	...to have a party with Orban. And for a conference!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u578	Mr. Dritsa, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u579	I'm coming now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u580	Ladies and gentlemen, it's late...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u581	But he's addressing me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u582	Mr. Drizza, I'm sorry, but didn't you contact him?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u583	He's addressing me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u584	What can we do? That's the way democracy is. These are the rules of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u585	It's addressed to me by name. He'll get answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u586	Mr. Dritsa, please complete the procedure. We've arrived at 9:00 at night. It's not worth it now. You spoke again and again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u587	Sports and racism will not be silenced.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u588	Mr. Drizza, excuse me, but I'm not going into this process. You spoke eighteen minutes and fifty seconds in your prototype and eight in your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u589	Mr President, we have a coup d'état of parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u590	Leave it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u591	Do we have a coup d'état and the Bureau tolerates it and tell me about eight and eighteen minutes? Parliamentary coup d'état and the Bureau and you and the President tolerate that. What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u592	Mr Dritsa, I have lived through all the governments, and I know about both the amendments and the urgent and all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u593	And at all meetings there is more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u594	But now is not the time to start again on parliamentary coups. I haven't heard this motto for years from you. Keep going, Mr. Lazarides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u595	In order to lower tones, Parliamentary coups, when bringing in a government an amendment, recommending the national coordinator's position to better manage a major problem, I think they are exaggerated. I think that, once again, SYRIZA does not stand up to the circumstances, especially on an issue which, as the debate has shown today in plenary today and also in committees, has a national dimension. And I say this, Mr President, in reminding you that only last October, SYRIZA voted against the ratification of the contracts on hydrocarbons in Ionian and Crete, when last June after the first Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras signed it. I understand that maybe SYRIZA is a political Janus. I'm closing down and I'm going to talk to you again, Mr. Dritsa, because you said so. You won't tell New Democracy about extreme right components. You have ruled four and a half years with the far right of Panos Kammenos. You were told that the votes of the Golden Dawn are counted on changing the electoral law. So lessons and ringing in New Democracy for far-right no! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u596	Thank you. The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence is closed: 'Confidentiality arrangements of the Ministry of National Defence and other provisions'. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, seven articles, four amendments, the farewell article, and the whole bill. Each time on the screen up to four articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, as well as the hotel article and the entire bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u597	Once the vote has been completed, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u598	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u599	Consequently, following the conclusion of the vote with the electronic system, the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: ‘Confidentiality of the Ministry of National Defence and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of the articles and all of the articles and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u600	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u601	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Friday 11 October 2019, Monday 14 October 2019, Tuesday 15 October 2019, Thursday 17 October 2019, Friday 18 October 2019, Wednesday 23 October 2019, Thursday 24 October 2019 and Friday 25 October 2019 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u602	The minutes of Friday 11 October 2019, Monday 14 October 2019, Tuesday 15 October 2019, Thursday 17 October 2019, Friday 18 October 2019, Wednesday 23 October 2019, Thursday 24 October 2019 and Friday 25 October 2019 were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-13-S1-commons.u603	With the consent of the House at 20.51' the meeting for tomorrow, Saturday, December 14, 2019 at 18.00, on the subject of the House's work, is closed: only debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Structuring the State Budget for the financial year 2020".
