ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's 18-7-2019 mandate, the Minutes of its Third Meeting of Thursday 18 July 2019 (meeting) concerning election 1, 2, 3 Vice-Presidents, two Quaestors and four Secretaries from the Co-rapporteurs, Election IV Vice-President, a Quaestor and a Vice-President from the Quaestor, the Election of the Vice-President and one Secretary from the second in a force of Parliamentary Group of Vice-Presidents, the election F Vice-President from the third to a power of Parliamentary Group of Vice-Presidents, the selection of Z' Vice-President from the fourth to a power of Parliamentary Group of Anti-Population and the election of the Vice-President from the fifth Vice-President from the Fifth Group of Parliamentary of Anti-Population.]] Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the special agenda, we will take the oath of Mr Nikolaos - Georgios Dendias, who was declared a MP in the elections of 7 July 2019. Mr. Nikolaos - George Dendias is called upon to come and give the nominated by the Constitution and the Rules of the House oath before the representative of the Church. [[This is where the Member, Mr Nikolaos - George Dendias, comes in and gives the following oath:]] "I swear in the name of the Holy and Omousia and Indivisible Trinity to be loyal to the homeland and the democratic city, to obey the Constitution and the laws and to fulfill conscientiously my duties."
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u2	Worthful, worthy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, on this point you will allow me to make a few letters from the parties to the Bureau. By SYRIZA: Mr President, I would like to inform you that the series of parliamentary representatives is as follows: I Parliamentary Representative Euklidis Tsakalotos, II Parliamentary Representative Mr Dimitris Tianakopoulos and III Parliamentary Representative Ms Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulos. The President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Alexis Tsipras." From SYRIZA again: Mr President, I would like to inform you that the Secretary of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group has been appointed by Mrs Olga Gerovasil, Member of the Arta. The President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Alexis Tsipras.’ From the Change Movement: "Mr President, I am aware that according to Rule 17(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement is appointed as the Member, Mr. Andreas Loverdes. Yours sincerely, Gennamas.” From the Change Movement: "Mr. President, I am aware that Secretary of the Change Movement Parliament's parliamentary group was elected, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou. Yours sincerely, Gennamas.’
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, before we continue, let me tell you about yesterday's earthquake incident. The House was affected, like all Attica from the earthquake, but I must say that both the Emergency Policy Service and the Technical Service responded directly to their duty. The conclusion so far is that the House does not have the slightest, worthy of reason, problem. The nursery followed the emergency plan. The station was evacuated calmly. Infants and toddlers went to the concentration room and were certainly delivered to parents. Just before I received a note from the Head of the Technical Services Directorate of the House, Mrs. Polychronopoulos, who tells me that immediately after the earthquake, at 14.13 seconds yesterday, the Technical Services Directorate was activated to control the buildings or the use of the House. Four engineers checked the House Hall, all the building blocks in offices, in plenary, in the nursery, on the Megaron roof. No worrying finding has so far been found and there has been no mention of some kind of serious damage. Checks continue. I read: 'In conclusion, Mr President, we believe from these checks that these buildings...' means, apart from Parliament and other buildings owned by Parliament, in Lenorman, in Amalia and elsewhere, '... they are operational and the planned parliamentary procedures can be carried out today in the House House. The Head of the Technical Services Directorate, Polychronopoulos Panagiotis". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION The purpose of today's meeting is to read and discuss the government's programming declarations. The debate will begin with the Prime Minister's reading of the Programming Declarations. It will be carried out in accordance with the provisions of Rules 84 of the Constitution and 141 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament in conjunction with the appropriate application of Rules 96(2) and 97 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and cannot be extended more than three days after its inception. I would like to inform you here that, precisely because the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure provide for three days, we have discussed with the Prime Minister and asked me to have literally a three-day term, particularly with a view to speaking as many Members as possible. Usually the three-day turns into two days, as the Prime Minister speaks first and then go the next day for everyone else and the aftermath. So there are two days left. So we are proposing that the sitting be resumed after the Prime Minister and that we should not go the next day, with the aim of speaking as many Members as possible. We realise that the programming statements are the government's responsibility for this, and experience tells us that there are not too many Members speaking at these meetings. However, we will try to approach a reasonable number of hundreds of Members, so that they can speak as many Members as possible. The vote on the vote of confidence in the government shall always be roll-call and shall be held as soon as the debate on the schedule statements is closed and no later than the 12th night of the third day following the start of the debate, i.e. in this case on Monday 22 July 2019. The Ministers and State Secretarys are also voting on this, since they are members of the House. The Government enjoys Parliament's confidence if the proposal of confidence is approved by an absolute majority of Members present, but it may not be less than 2/5 of the total number of Members. In particular, as far as the organisation is concerned, I would propose the following procedure. The President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, will read the Programming Declarations and then there will be a first cycle of speakers who will be given the floor as rapporteurs, representing the equal numbers, six in this regard, Parliamentary Groups. The chairpersons of the parliamentary groups will then be assigned if they so wish. The groups have submitted a list of speakers as provided for in Rule 65(5) of the Rules of Procedure. The competent agency has drawn up a single list containing the Members of the Co-Population who are alternated with the Vice-Population Members, in order to respect the strength of the Parliamentary Groups by analogy with ten cycles of speakers. It will consist of eleven MPs each. These eleven MPs are distributed as follows: five MPs from the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, three MPs from the Radical Left coalition, one or one MEP from the Group of the Parliamentary Party of Parliament, one from the Group of the Party of European Socialists and one from the Group of the Party of European Socialists, one from the Group of the Party of European Socialists, one from the Greek Parliamentary Party, one from the Greek Parliamentary Party and one from the MEP.25. The speaking time of the speakers on the list is six minutes, twelve minutes, of the Deputy Ministers ten minutes and seven minutes, according to Rule 97 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I propose that the Minister should take the floor per four Members, as has been done in the past. The speaking time of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups is laid down in Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure. In particular, the duration of the speech by the Prime Minister and the Chief of Officerial Representation is up to twenty minutes and up to fifteen minutes for the Presidents of the remaining four parliamentary groups, obviously with tolerance in time in the development of their positions. Parliamentary representatives are entitled to speak up to three times, and in particular ten minutes in protology, five minutes in dentology and three minutes in tritology, as laid down in Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure. I would suggest, as is customary in this procedure, that we do not accept a limitation of speaking time in the event that the President of the Parliament has given a speech, as provided for in Rule 167(2) of the Rules of Procedure. For the Members of Parliament I propose that they speak in a particular circle, following the conclusion of the speech of the three - one of the 11 - first-speaking speakers and beyond the first-stage circle. The Prime Minister, the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups and the Ministers under the Constitution and the Rules shall have the right to intervene whenever they so wish. I would also remind you that according to parliamentary practice, when the Minister is intervening, it is customary not to be followed by a Member of the Co-population. In any case, then, there will also be a similar adjustment of the list to ensure that the rotation is completely carried out, but that the power of the final parliamentary groups is not finally affected. Any changes to the order of speaking should be made in exceptional cases, after the list has been drawn up with a document from the Secretary-General of the Parliamentary Group to which the Members belong, which will be addressed to the Bureau and subject to the necessary mutual change by the end of the second sitting. Does Parliament accept the proposal, as I made it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u5	So the House agrees unanimously. The President of the Government, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u6	Thank you. Hundreds of times I have come up to this step, but I do not hide you, ladies and gentlemen, that today is a special moment. Ladies and gentlemen, I am taking the floor today in the hope of making a new start in our political life. The elections of 7 July closed a decade of economic, social and cultural regression. They closed the cycle of crisis, along with the painful myths and its critical lessons. At the same time, however, the Greeks opened a window in a new era, because they did not simply change a government. They have overcome an entire historic phase. Not only did they condemn the falsehood of antimony anticipation. They demanded the foundation of a new reality, which at last responds to the real demands of our country, by synchronizing it with the developed Europe. This popular mandate has been clear and clear. It is time for the self-powered Greece to go forward, with unity, schedule and hard work. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] My government and I will personally honour this mandate in full. We are responding to the desire that many people call, Mr President, 'new regularity', but they mean it as progress and not as a return to old pathogens. We will not be measured with our opponents, but with the problems of society. After all, the Greek people decided to vote. Our compass remains the truth agreement that we signed with the Greek people. What we have said will do and we will do it with the citizens and we will do it faster, because the future cannot wait, because society does not want to hear any more words, wants to see results. Our weapon is our clean plan and constant goal to develop for many good jobs, to regenerate the middle class and produce wealth for all. And that will not be brought by any political mediator. My ambition is to function as a catalyst, releasing the creative forces of Greek society, because only then will we really be freed from the monuments, facing the true causes of the crisis, not only the tip of the iceberg, with bold central choices, but also with small daily revolutions that each Greek must make, each Greek, and will make with love for the country. This new patriotism will be our flag for Greece of the 21st century, a current of progress, which, without underestimating differences, will promote unity, which will look less left or right and more forward. We know that the Greeks want a break with the past, they want a government that can prove in practice, not just in the words, that Greece can. Because, I will say again, as Prime Minister, I will pursue - and I think we should all pursue it in this Chamber - the policy to upgrade to the eyes of our millions of fellow citizens who have abstained from the polls in the years of the crisis. As the leader of my resignation I will continue to claim the trust of everyone, to honor those who have voted for us, to vindicate the many of our fellow citizens who have trusted us for the first time, but also to convince myself in my work of those who are still vigilant toward us, because the country's progress is a national matter and in this effort I want as many of them as possible next door to me. The burden of my responsibility is great. I have the honour, however, to lead a busy, prosperous, proud people who have not broken before unprecedented difficulties and are now ready to make the big leap in the future, to leave behind the difficulties, to endure a world that is changing, confidently and confidently. In some, this work may seem titanium. Some may reminiscent of returning to a past of false bliss, in which we neither can nor should return. Many more will rush to say that this is just not happening. I tell them to put away suspicion and grumbling, they don't fit us as a people. Let each of us do what we think and let us all put a stone in the structure of the new Greece that we deserve. Ladies and gentlemen, within less than two weeks our government has shown us written samples of its character, its readiness, its availability for work. Its composition took place without political suspensions and party caps, to be a government of all Greeks, a government that bridges experience with renewal and politics with the professionalism of the technocrat who knows how to give solutions to problems. We built within a few days what others have taken months: governmental shape, general secretariats, state pyramid, responsibility to the State Secretarys. All of this has already been gratuitously served, over and above party labels, and they are already starting to produce results. The functioning of the government respects the separation of powers and is subject to the plan approved by the Greek people, is group and transparent, and its performance will be monitored continuously so that each citizen can assess them. The treatment of yesterday's earthquake, but also of the recent theorem in Halkidiki, shows that the state can be better done and that ultimately the people who manage the critical positions of the state mechanism are of great importance. Our successful exit on the markets confirms that we can win the confidence bet and the first moves on the security front show that what was ultimately missing was neither personnel nor the means, but political will and good knowledge of the subject. These first days are only a few lines from the prologue of a national chapter in the history of the country. But they also show the government's perception of its duties. We don't care about power. Our task is to bring investment, reduce taxes, connect wages to growth, have all Greeks a share in prosperity, give many opportunities to young people through education, put order and rules on the labour market, protect workers, especially the low-paid, fight fear through an effective security policy, offer good public health to those who need it. All of this will be served with rapid actions, in response to many different needs, from the proper collection and use of waste as our free information and cultural upgrade. In the situation in which the country is today, I do not really know what an ideological sign one would put into all of this. I would simply call them a policy of measure, logic and result. I believe in her too! That is why, from now on, the government will be mere and real. It will avoid the many surnames, insisting on the essentials and the future time will prefer the perpetrators, the perpetrators of action and the result. This intention, moreover, also states the new structure of the government. The Ministerial Council does not intend to be an instrument which will simply legalise decisions that are preconceived, but must and will function regularly, shaping the central operational plan, which will be implemented by the Ministries. This plan will be closely monitored by the Presidency of the Government, as is the case in all modern Western political systems, through an advanced electronic system to combat delays and affinity. We are dealing with maliciousness and pluralism by introducing a broad grid of good law-making rules and trusting the administration. We establish the post of a secretary-general at each Ministry. She'll be a civil servant. It will be selected by the AACC and oversee the costs and staff of each Ministry. We are moving forward in the real colonization, which no one has dared to date, by returning the right to sign where it belongs, to the directors-general, to the worthy of civil servants! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the heart of our government plan lies in changing the mixture of economic policy that has been pursued so far, our commitment to bold reforms, but also our credibility towards the partners and the international economic environment. In the preliminary draft budget for 2020, which will be submitted in September, this budgetary balance is not disturbed or the objectives of the primary surpluses which have, unfortunately, been agreed by the previous government are questioned. However, in achieving the 2019 and 2020 objectives, we are also launching a broad plan of bold changes at all levels of the economy. The keywords are ‘reliability’ and ‘effectiveness’. As far as we are concerned, we are implementing it within agreed timetables with an ambitious national reconstruction plan of our own. As Prime Minister of Greece, I refuse to accept that we ourselves cannot put our own house in order. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We will make Greece the pleasant surprise of the Eurozone. The time when we are only to be mentioned as Europe's problem children has come to an end. So in 2020 we will have the potential, now, to claim the reduction of primary surpluses at more realistic levels. And it - as I have said many times - will be in the common interest of Greece and of the partners, not only because it will offer greater flexibility to our social policy, but because it will support even higher growth rates through even more bold tax cuts. And just this strong growth, that is, the change of the denominator in the debt-to-GDP fraction, will be the one that will finally convince everyone that Greece is turning a definitive page. We will repay our debts from the surplus of growth and not from the fall of the middle class! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Our government plan has been discussed for a long time. It has received approval from the Greek people. In addition, the Ministers will develop this in detail in the three-day debate that is taking place today. I shall therefore avoid the tradition of Programmatic Declarations with endless lists of measures that are lost next year. That is why I will describe six specific packages of actions from the Step of Parliament today. They are objectives that I had set from the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, to make later programming commitments. And now they are turning into reality, with the aim of being a part of the everyday life of all Greeks. Truly the first: Greeks pay less taxes and the economy gets ahead with new investments and many, well paid, new jobs. We move on to deep areas in the way we understand our tax policy. Taxation is not just a source of revenue. It must finally be transformed into a lever of growth. Business tax is down to 20% in two phases! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In particular, the reduction from 28% to 24% will be voted on in September for the revenues of 2019 and for dividends from 10% to 5%. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is, however, increasing - beware - and the tax responsibility of companies is increasing. The tax base is broadened by the strengthening of electronic transactions and, finally, the mandatory electronic invoicing and the keeping of electronic books. We offer important incentives for capital investment, and the tax facility in our country is attractive. VAT is suspended on building and value tax on real estate purchases and sales! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] There is a 40% tax deduction on energy, functional and aesthetic upgrading of buildings. The first tax rate for incomes of up to EUR 10,000 will fall from 22% to 9%. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] At the same time, the maximum rate of taxation is also reduced. We gradually abolish a contribution of solidarity and a trade fee and during our term of office insurance contributions are reduced from 20% to 15%, while products and services will ultimately cost cheaper. Gradually the two rates of VAT, apart from the highest one, which is obviously maintained, will result in 11% and 22%, from the current 13% and 24%. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Allow me here to announce our first, I would say, "inconsistency" of our Government, to raise a programme commitment. Indeed, I promised that all tax reliefs would be included in the autumn budget and would apply from 2020. Today I fail my commitment. Significant tax reductions will not concern 2020, but start from now on, 2019! [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] Say it a piece of shit from the back! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Thus, the cleansing they will receive in a few days' time for this year's ENPIA will be mid-weighted by 22% lower. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] We have said so about 2020, but we have been applying it now to immediately relieve millions of owners, but also to stimulate the real estate market. In particular, for small property, relief will be of 30%. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The tax on all medium-sized property, i.e. the middle-class, will be reduced by 20%. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Very large property, with an objective value of more than one million, will see a 10% reduction. Immediately, however, the one hundred twenty-dollar arrangement for public debts will also be changed. The minimum monthly payment is reduced from EUR 30 to EUR 20, as promised. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The interest rate currently borne by households and businesses is reduced from 5% to 3%. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The regulation is widened for all enterprises and legal persons having a basic debt of up to EUR 1 million. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] For those who form part of and remain in the arrangement, seizures and forced recovery measures shall be suspended. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] However, I would like to stress this in the first speech I make as Prime Minister of the country and I would like everyone to hear it very well: this is the last time the Greek State has made such arrangements. I call on all the citizens and businesses that have difficulty in making use of it, because the aim of the new government will be twofold: firstly, we will be lightening the debts of those who want, but they cannot pay back their debts and, secondly, this must be done without affecting the culture of payments in our country, which has been so afflicted by anti-development tax and other regulations. These interventions will be submitted directly to the House, in our first tax bill, which will be passed as an urgency next week, so that citizens' relief will not be delayed one day. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] And immediately after August's interruption, we will follow our second tax bill, which is a great reform section and will bring about strong growth. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, there are also positive governmental fluctuations, when there is a plan, seriousness and credibility. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And something timely and critical, for which, of course, the relevant Minister for the Environment and Energy will also speak, Mr Hatzidakis: we will do everything we can to save PPC from the sure disaster that our predecessors have led to! [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] And that will be without another burden on consumers of electricity. Wherever we need to privatise networks to support the operation. We're going to locate strategic poor payers, who will suffer the consequences of the law, and, after we redeem the business, yes, we're going to seek a strategic investor. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] As saved and developed by OTE, PPC will proceed, and decisively proceed with the sale of 30% of the airport "Eleftherios Venizelos" and a new attempt to privatise the "Greek Petroleum". At the same time, we move quickly towards taking advantage of the property of the Greek State. I will not say much about private investment. The bureaucratic obstacles that ensnare them, they will be scanned and the Greek will soon become the symbol of the new Greece, the quality, the extroversion and innovation! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] For the banks and the problem of non-performing loans: We are progressing rapidly to both projects that have been drawn up by the Financial Stability Fund and the Bank of Greece so that the banks can carry out their central task, which is no other than the financing of Greek businesses. Truly second: our society is fighting inequality. Everyone has access to the new public health system and no one is left unprotected. We recruit immediately two thousand doctors and, above all, nurses where the Greek hospitals are currently in pain. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The latter specialty will, in fact, be provided with the degree, so that in the medium term a thousand five hundred nurses will be able to run our hospitals annually. It applies, starting with the Greek Parliament, Mr President, immediately the anti-smoking law everywhere on the ground. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I noticed that your applause was less warm! [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] The needs of the public health system throughout the territory shall be recorded. We are, however, giving clear priority to the radiation treatments for our cancerous fellow citizens! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We use existing linear accelerators, but we also establish a second shift with a call for positions for technicians - radiologists. Finally, we stop the tails of shame. The drugs of the severely ill will be distributed either at home or at home by the pharmacy of their choice instead of for the pharmacy of the EEA and in collaboration with the private sector, all needs of primary health establishments are met. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Finally, the new government immediately starts payment of widow's pensions, which some, after having reduced them, forgot to pay them. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Third: our political system becomes operational and the state fights bureaucracy, with a big weapon of technology. In two months' time the debate on the Constitutional Review will begin here in Parliament. Amongst other things, it will finally lead the country to stable elections, blocking them from the process of raising the President of the Republic. We are immediately introducing the vote of Greeks abroad at last. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I call on the National Representation to find, in more than two hundred Members we need, in order for this great innovation to come into force, so that our fellow citizens, who have the right to exercise their right to vote, to exercise it from their permanent residence and not to be forced to return home. At the same time, we are also voting for a new electoral law that combines proportionality with governance. We won't let the country rehearsal in the simple analogue. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Within 2020, the Greek state will finally begin to acquire a real digital presence. Each birth will only be declared once in public administration. Each child will register only the first time in education and proceed automatically to the next grade. So everyone will have access to the performance of their children, without having to examine the authenticity of their studies, and each citizen will be informed electronically and fully about his or her insurance situation and will communicate with the public, with a tool to communicate his or her new digital identity. It will also be introduced into the hospital, if necessary, and it will be served by the government as a whole. Responsible statements and signatures are converted into electronics and citizens' communication with the public will only be done once. After all, it is the duty of the services to be informed internally without harming the citizen and every citizen - I say again - it will do everything in its new digital identity. A relevant competition launched by the previous government has already been cancelled and will immediately be reopened. I'm really fourth. Education becomes the elevator for the progress of each new. He is linked to the economy and no longer produces unemployed graduates, with unreasonable degrees, but good scientists and skilled professionals. We are immediately launching the process initiated by the previous government, and we are recruiting four and a half thousand teachers in special education, and we will gradually address the question of assistant teachers as well. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Teachers and not the Ministry will eventually have the first reason for the content of the studies. And these are the universities, which will also determine at the end the annual number of importers. It is a work of universities and not of the Ministry of Education. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The asylum of lawlessness and infringibility is abolished! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Our first bill! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Universities are empty from molotovs, from "blacks", from drug dealers and return to students, teachers and their employees where they really belong. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] A policy of strengthening vocational education, the use of technology and the development of pilot and experimental schools has been launched since next year. The first model school of the new generation of schools by our new government, as I have committed, is founded in Peristeri, West Attica. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Really fifth. Security, this basic democratic right, returns to the neighborhoods. The government's already made a lot of policemen out of the offices on the street. And the law, the refuge of the weakest, is imposed everywhere. There are immediately problematic provisions in the Criminal Code. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It prevents the release of murderers, isovirates and terrorists. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Changes the licensing regime and establishes maximum type III security prisons. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] By the end of the year, a thousand young police officers will have been hired. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] They will serve the DIA Group and the DELTA Group, which we will reconstitute and within six months will replace the equipment and bulletproof vests of the Greek Police, while in 2020 we will ensure new patrols and new machines. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Intensification at the border and internal borders of controls on illegal immigration is being carried out. The asylum procedure is changing and will be completed very quickly, but always with respect for human rights. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course, we attach great importance to civil protection, prevention, cooperation and coordination between the relevant bodies. Climate change, technological developments and, above all, the tragedies that we have experienced in the previous period - and have affected us deeply - impose a different way of organising and operating in this area. Finally, justice acquires new leadership, which we define with respect for year-to-year and worthiness. The courts shall establish special Chambers for special cases with specialised Judges. The Justice Observatory is processing the data of its operation and for its rapid award, it is finally expanding the electronic deposit of documents and storage of practices everywhere. Indeed, our country does not just belong to Europe and NATO, but participates equally in their formation based on our national priorities. We are upgrading our presence in the European Union. Apart from the very positive contacts I have already had at the summit, particularly on the issues of the economy, we are giving the'substances' to every debate, first the very important debate that will take place on the new common agricultural policy. We are proposing for the Greek Commissioner to the next European Commission Mr Margaret Schroedna. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] A worthy Greek who knows as little about the way the European Commission operates. In the next committee, our home country will claim a significant productive portfolio. After our broad election victory and with the Presidency of the European Commission belonging to the European People's Party, it is something that we can achieve. In the Balkans, as we have repeatedly said, the priority is to alleviate the negative consequences of the implementation of the Ambassadors Agreement. And this is our development programme for northern Greece, the ultimate priority that I give to protecting our Macedonian products, with a great international communication campaign for our Macedonia. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And I want to send a message again in and out of Greece. The behaviour and good cooperation of our neighbours will ultimately be judged on their way to the European Union. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] As far as our neighbour Turkey is concerned, I will be mere. Comparison for our relations remains International Law and the provision of friendly cooperation, but without rhetorical deprivations, such as those we have heard today, and with strong national confidence. In this context, I do not hesitate to call on President Erdogan to attempt a mutual approach, to take a bold step forward together. We are obliged by geography to live together. The unnecessary intensity, the armaments races lack valuable resources from both countries which can ultimately be used for the benefit of our citizens. Our diplomacy, however, also contributes to the national development effort. In the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we are strengthening the structures for the extroversion of Greek businesses and for attracting foreign investments. Finally, within the next week, we will announce the creation of a flexible body that will undertake the preparation of our country to celebrate in 2021 the two hundred years from the beginning of the Greek Revolution. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I think it is a milestone this year because it will be a unique opportunity to re-establish Greece in the world, Greece of creation, Greece of extroversion, Greece of tomorrow, which, with confidence, finds its place in a world that is changing rapidly. Greece that we deserve, which can make us all proud, as it did, at the best time of its modern history, at the 2004 Olympics. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, these six tangible truths are serving ten government bills, which are already ready and will be promoted in two phases, in the summer and the end of 2019. These instruments concern the state and its organisation, the new fiscal framework, which, as I have explained to you, will come into two phases, combining a reformal section with flexibility for households and businesses, development with the aim of national and international investments, simplifying the regulatory framework so that the country can become an attractive destination for investment, modernising the bankruptcy procedure, the right of Greeks to vote abroad and new local self-government, independent justice, transparency and civil protection, education at all levels, modernisation and digitalisation of public administration, rural development and the organisation of the primary sector, and, finally, the great areas to be done in public health. As you can see, this legislative package extends to all areas of government action. But this government action is not just about legislation, and I want it to be reflected in five flagship projects in Attica and Thessaloniki. These are interventions that will relieve millions of people, creating, at the same time, many new jobs. These are works that will change the image of Attica and Thessaloniki. Project One: Athens soon acquires a new pole of culture and international tourist interest. The National Archaeological Museum is extended and integrated with the Metsovio Polytechnics, while regenerating Exarchia, Patisia and Omonia. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I would like to thank the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, which has already offered to fund the first studies on this flagship project, which will change the appearance of the Athens Centre. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Project 2: Korydalou Prisons are transported out of urban web and fleeing West Athens. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Old facilities are being demolished. A large park with sports and artistic creation spaces will be created at the prison site. Korydalos and the surrounding neighborhoods of western Athens will finally rise. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Western Athens is also Piraeus. Project 3: The former royal estate in Tatoi is widely exploited in collaboration with the private sector. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We can form model agri-food units. We can make spaces visitable. We can establish small hotel units, shape the gardens. We can obtain new clean walks for all the Athenians. And North Attica will acquire new tourist interest. Project IV: This is a project in which - I want to be fair - the former Prime Minister has also been mentioned. In Keracini and in collaboration with the municipality, the two acres of Drapetsona are transformed into a metropolitan park with sports and artistic actions. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] At the same time, however, an International Innovation Centre will be established, in cooperation with large foreign technology enterprises. In the area of old fertilisers culture and technological progress will flourish. Project Fifth: In Thessaloniki, the International Exhibition site is fully changed and upgraded. Its facilities are modernised and framed by green. The aim is for Macedonia's capital to make a light exception to the trend in exposure isolates into non-civil facilities. In this way, the site of the exhibition is part of the city's commercial and cultural life all year round. Ladies and gentlemen, these five key interventions in our two large urban centres are at the same time responding to local and national needs. They combine the need to improve citizens' lives with the development of the country and ultimately highlight the image of the 21st century Greece, a country that turns to progress, growth, investment. And I would like to stress to the Minister that this is not only about the so-called 'economic' ministries. Every portfolio can testify - and he must testify - his own contribution. For example, the Ministry of Tourism promotes a wide range of marinas on islands and selected locations of mainland Greece. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It motivates the registration of recreational craft that will remain and be maintained in Greece. The Ministry of Culture gives high degrees of autonomy to the Archaeological Resources Fund. With a special plan, the revenue of our museums can be doubled by 2021. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The Ministry of Defence finally exploits its important real estate, while at another level it can claim, through NATO and through FRONTEX, educational programs for the creation of educational centres in Greece. There are already proposals for pilot and engineer academies. The Ministry of Education supports the establishment of English-speaking departments in Greece in cooperation with public universities. We can bring to Greece ten thousand foreign students in four years who will pay tuition fees to the Greek universities. However, the Ministry may also set up summer sections to attract high school and high school students from all over the world. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Finally, the Ministry of Health has its own contribution to medical and health tourism. Along with the other co-legislative Ministries they can set up high standards for foreign citizens of third age. The Ministry of Health may participate in the production and export of products from the healing and aromatic plants of the Greek land. Greece is imposed and can become a leading player in what is called'silver economy' internationally and become a world centre of well-being and good life. These indicative reports mark sufficiently, I believe, the government's intention to claim investment at all levels, because only in this way will a new wealth be produced for everyone's benefit and only in this way will we have many, new and well-paid jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, from the large horizontal policies, I would like to stand a little more on our green agenda, an agenda that I personally do not give to anyone who calls himself 'green'. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Development in our country will either respect the environment or it will simply not be sustainable. And sustainability as a horizontal concept must be the whole of our policy. Our programme is not only limited to the development of mild forms of renewable energy, nor only to the necessary management and exploitation of waste with the modern technologies of the circular economy, which must at last be done in our country. It extends to a number of other initiatives. Since 2021 Greece will completely ban disposable plastics. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The country with the most beautiful nature must protect it in practice. Incentives will be given to adapting them to the cyclical economy by modernising their equipment and retraining their workers. In a specific timetable, our small islands become energy autonomous with the development of hybrid renewable energy generation plants. There is a great deal of interest and a lot of funding from the European Union but also very serious know-how in Greek educational and research centres. In four years' time, a strategic plan for electricity mobility in large cities and small islands is being implemented. The first objective is to renew public transport by urban electric buses. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The protection of the environment is not just a moral obligation towards the next generations but also a great opportunity for Greece to exploit its most important comparative advantage, which is no more than its unparalleled natural beauty and its unique cultural wealth. Ladies and gentlemen, you have not listened to me so far to quote the problems that the government has left behind. Unfortunately, these mines exist. In fact, it's a lot of dangerous and dangerous. But it does not benefit, much more when the Greek people's crisis is still fresh, when their bronze decision is still fresh. It's time to look forward. It's time to move forward. I hope and hope that this House will be the best in post-population. However, this is not only dependent on the government's majority. It is not only up to the fifty - eight Members of the New Democracy. I look forward to and seek hard programming and live discussions. It is also a characteristic of the parliamentary culture. However, I am in no way going to make a discount on the spirit and style of political dialogue. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Let us remember the words of Constantine Chatsos, which the new President, Costas Tasoulas, mentioned earlier, whom I would like to congratulate for his festive election. Constantine Tsatsos said: "Confrontation of opponents deprives democracy."
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u7	Dimitris, not Constantine.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u8	Constantine's nephew.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u9	Dimitris Chachos. I'm sorry. Thank you for the correction. "The confrontation of opponents deprives democracy. The conflict of enemies within its space is the beginning of the end". We're rival politicians. We're not enemies. And we do not seek each other's political extinction. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Let us also point out in this Chamber that the age of anger, anger and violence has passed, and let us all applaud the fact that the hideous Nazi motif has finally been expelled from the temple of democracy, because it has never been here. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, in twenty days from today the Greeks where we will celebrate the two hundred years since the Greek Revolution began. It's a chance to think about how we can bring a second regeneration to our homeland. The road is shown by our ancestors, who have mixed up our traits. We're a deep democratic nation. The universal suffrage was introduced in Greece long before large European countries and in democratic processes, despite shocks, all the populations, both indigenous and refugees. It is our duty now to strengthen democratic function through a revolution of transparency, accountability, but above all efficiency. We are a nation progressive, because, despite occasional setbacks, we have always found the modernity and the way to move forward. The state and the market developed early, but unfortunately not in the depth and quality of other countries. That is why today's bet is still radical modernisation. We are a nation with a geopolitical position that often determines its fate for good or for the worst. In its fertile moments the country won from its position, exploited its advantages with unity, pride and multi-dimensional foreign policy. When it was divided, it suffered national disasters. So let us all prove that we have learned from our history. With these characteristics we move forward, these traditions are renewed, so we are taking part in global changes, because, yes, today's world does not stop changing. Climate change and uncontrolled migration are neglecting as constant threats. Artificial intelligence multiplys the production of goods and services, but also changes the way society and the labour market are organised. These changes overthrow everything we know. They create new inequalities, but at the same time new opportunities. So we can no longer deal with the problems of the last century or even of the previous century, fighting backwards, while the rest of the world is running toward the future. That's enough left behind. Ladies and gentlemen, I close by telling you that I trust the Greeks, but I believe deep in the order of which I have the great honour of leading in the New Democracy... [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] ...the great political power of the measure, democracy, the creativity of the individual, freedom and solidarity, but above all in the parade of the composition. The lies and demagogy belong to Greece of the crisis. The "we or they" belongs to Greece of division and the "many and few" belong to Greece of poverty benefits. That's all in the past. In our homeland, it's not worth inserting in yesterday. The Greeks were tired of the big words and big mistakes. They were tested by demagogy and incompetence. They ask for fewer promises and more tangible results. They ask for security, jobs, lower taxes, better everyday life. They ask mainly to regain control of their lives, to hope that their children will live better than themselves. Their political system requires morality, professionalism, maturity and, above all, efficiency. These demands will be met by the New Democracy Government. Along with these objectives, it invites all citizens together. On the road to Greece we deserve, let's make a first step forward on the two-year anniversary of the Revolution of 1921. And as Kipling says in one of my favorite poems, "If", let us trust ourselves when the world doesn't believe us and dream without becoming slaves to our dreams and let us begin our own revolution for the light Greece of the 21st century. We can put it together. We deserve it, but it's up to us to do it. So I urge you to vote in favour of our programme statements, which lead all Greeks to a better tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u10	Following the speech by the Prime Minister, the first circle of Members begins, the most important speakers, whom I ask to hold strict compliance with the six-minute speaking time available to them. Congressman Christos Tarantilis of the New Democracy is called in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, on 7 July the Greek citizen in his vote did not merely order a new government, he ordered a new era, for a new era of his own, his children, his fellow citizens, his homeland. He ordered a completely new and different culture, attitude, perception, style and moral governance. In our model of governance, our vision of homeland is not exhausted in the field of ideas and is not exhausted in the territory of hope. It moves it into practice through rational and effective planning, as well as the proper implementation of public policies. In the governance model that we represent the slogan is not to come out of the day, the slogan is to prepare the day or day. Already, the government's composition, organisation and planning of its operation presides over the pace of this new era. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] I am suffice to point out the following important aspects: the excellent political and technocracy ratio represented in the composition of the new government, the clear definition of responsibilities, objectives, timetables and synergies of the government - what we call an excellent structure in the terminology of administration - innovative electronic monitoring of the progress of government work in the models of government operation of countries with a very long tradition and culture of effective technocratic administration, the restoration of the constitutional function and the executive role of the cabinet, which will meet monthlyly and will approve the framework of government work at certain times per year and the government's overall operational plan. An important aspect of this new era is also the new moral governance, where transparency and accountability of government action are prioritised. In this context, a ban on the entire government scheme for any parallel professional and business activity is laid down. In addition, a single scale of posted officials is set up for all the structures of the government, the total number of which will be limited as compared to those serving in the government coming. Ladies and gentlemen, the vision of our Government begins with the restoration of the meaning and substance of words. From the restoration, for example, of the meaning of the word "process" that we heard as a wish from the lips of the afflicted generation of our grandparents and grandparents, as a synonym of the happy ending of a course of effort, effort, labour and creativity. Since the restoration of the meaning of the words "excellence" and "excellence" as synonyms of the reward of talent, individuality and cultivation, as well as as the necessary Treaty of staffing the institutions of our State. From the restoration of the meaning of the word "law", which, instead of inspiring respect for and acceptance by the citizens of the top institutional product of the democratic culture, has unfortunately resulted in a series of opportune, malicious and unrelated provisions. From the restoration of the meaning of the word "tax", which, instead of implying the reasonable financial contribution of everyone according to their powers to the service of the public interest, the smooth functioning of the fundamental services of a state, and the high duty of social solidarity, has unfortunately resulted in consumption of asymmetric amounts of our financial time, punishment of healthy entrepreneurship, scarecrow of investment and, ultimately, of its own progress. From the restoration of the concept of "public space" which, instead of producing aesthetics and expressing respect for the institutions and functions it houses, such as health, education, recreation, has resulted in it being synonymous with abandonment and muzzura. Since the restoration of the concept of individual and collective progress, we believe that a fundamental treaty on the progress of each individual, but also of the social group in general, is the guarantee by a responsible government of the stability of working conditions, taxation, insurance, public health and education, and the insertion of public security and the protection of public space. Ladies and gentlemen, our government's vision of our new era is based on processed and documented public policies, which will unfold the next few years through our legislative work. These public policies aim at stable and strong growth, with investments that will create new and well-paid jobs, effectively combat unemployment and shape the return conditions of our young people to our home country, aim to reduce taxes and improve the incomes of citizens, build a new'social contract' of workers, state and business. The essence of this ‘contract’ is that the State offers a healthy and competitive business environment, without bureaucracy, with low taxation, while in turn companies fulfil their obligations towards the State and pay their employees well. Our public policies also support family and working parents, because the demographic problem is in the long term the biggest threat to society, the economy and, ultimately, our own national status. They strengthen social solidarity, because it does not mean growth without social cohesion or social cohesion without solidarity. They guarantee quality public health for all and for all. They form modern public schools, public universities with autonomy, extroverted rated programs of undergraduate and postgraduate studies, without focusing on the Ministry of Education and Overseas Concepts, focusing on research and innovation, developing synergies and actions in local communities, collective bodies and businesses, in order to achieve a direct link to the labour market.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u12	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u13	In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that in our vision of our country Greece will not be a country of periphery, citizens will not be treated as class groups, the past will not be marked by the memory of division and intolerance, the present will not be experienced as a frustration, indulgence, carteria and lost opportunities, the new will not be a mixture of insecurity and moderate hope. We want to and we have to pull forward. We want, as the poetic Elytis wrote, to pull forward with 'alma faster than wear'. Our government will act responsibly not only in the interests of the present but also of the future generation. Only by this attitude is politics gaining the necessary space of historical perspective, which also gives rise to the notion of historical responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u14	Finish it. You've spent a lot of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u15	We don't want time for consumption, but for creation. Now is the time to stretch the bow of our country's fate. Now is the time to trust this government and this Prime Minister, and that is what I will do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Katrugalos has the floor from SYRIZA for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, we have chosen our first speech to be devoted to foreign policy, and that is for two reasons. The first is that although we are determined to move to a structural programme on all issues, we consider that foreign policy issues must form consensus and that there must be a national front. The second reason is that, even in this very sensitive area, we have had contradictions of attitudes, words and deeds, even this short period of time from the government, which, in my opinion, are not only concerned about foreign policy itself, but also about the government's own nature. First of all, Mr President, I think it was an important omission on your part that you have not even referred to Cyprus and the Cyprus issue today on the 40th anniversary of the invasion... [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] ...and why the previous anniversary of the coup shows what great calamities the patriots can bring us those times that the patriodocaust prevails and not the national conscience of interest in the promotion of major national issues. We must consider what is true national. The truth is that the state of the country at all levels today, you receive it, is very different and much better than in 2015 when we received the responsibilities of the government. Others will talk about the situation with two and a half million people without access to health services or the millions of people who have had trouble meeting their basic obligations and needs. But the image and international position of our country was never so upgraded that we handed you over. We made the voice of the country stronger and more respected. We were not just a stable democracy but an exporter of stability in both the Eastern Mediterranean and the Balkans. We have faced immigration in the context of a conflict, economic and immigration, based on the principles of solidarity, and have respected our country as well in this area. It is no coincidence that this is why Pope Francis proposed the former Prime Minister for the Peace Nobel. But the krone of this policy, not just the political extroversion but the export of stability, was the Ambassadors' agreement. When I spoke beforehand about contradictions of speech and of works during that period, I was referring to them. I was recently presented with the Deputy Minister for European Affairs and the Minister for Defence at the ECONOMIST conference where their statements were indeed positive. Mr Varvitsiotis said that: "The political issues we have between us..." meaning between our country and northern Macedonia - what I say is verbatim, that is, they are said - "... they have been resolved to a great extent by the Ambassadors' Agreement." The Minister of National Defence said: "I do not question anyone's intention that this agreement was reached for a good purpose, to strengthen stability in the region, to strengthen the geopolitical stability of the region. And if this is done with unreserved respect for all its essential conditions, then I think we will be able to go to a better future." If only these statements were made, I would have exceeded everything that had been said to mislead and divide the Greek people in the previous period. You knew that you had negotiated two-name solutions, much worse than those of the Embassy Agreement, which overcompensated 120% of national positions, as shaped between 2005 and 2017. You were well aware that only the extreme right, as expressed by LAS and the other extreme right powers, was contrary to the complex name. And you have not forgotten that the word "solotumba" appeared then, in 2005, when the current Vice-President described Kostas Karamanlis as "solotumba" that - in his words - "sold Macedonia". So I would consider that to be forgotten if we were to remain in these positive statements by your government representatives. But there were statements from other relevant ministers, such as Mr Karaoglou, who said: 'The subject of our name is disturbing and hurting' and 'One more issues should be changed, such as the issue of ethnicity'. And the corrective statements made by the Minister of Defence were even more alarming, because he said: "It must be understood that I was speaking to an international audience," as if others were to say when the Ambassador of the United States hears us and others say when we are addressing the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are accountable - every government is accountable - to the Greek people, not to the Ambassador of the United States. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And if we succeeded in having this policy of general recognition and credibility of our country's foreign policy, it is because we did not consider the Americans to be either 'American' or 'Stamps' and considered our foreign policy to be an axis and orientation, that alignment of positions is in line with interests and not vice versa. That is why we have managed to have the best relations both with the United States and with their strategic competitor, China. We have never claimed a place in a client state, but at an equal rate we have conquered making our country, our country's voice, the voice of our country stronger and more respected. That is why it was not a good sign that the first move of Greek diplomacy, when all our hammers had to be beaten in the Eastern Mediterranean against Turkey, should be the recognition of Guido.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u18	Finish, Mr. Catrugale.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u19	I shall conclude, Mr President. You may have any ideological position you want in this. We believe that the position of the European Union for a peaceful and democratic dialogue that we have shaped is the preferred one. But I am thinking of you precisely because, in terms of symbolism, this attempt to align with the United States is a return to times when our country was not equal in its relations with the superpower.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u20	Please hang up, Mr. Catrugale.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u21	And I want to conclude by asking you to decide what party you are. You said you were a party of progress. We believe - and this criticism we have made - that, as throughout Europe, we see a form of neoliberalism and extreme right-wing, so your government seems to have these characteristics.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u22	Hang up, Mr. Catrugale. You take time from next colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u23	I'll be done. And with what you said, then, and with what you did not say - I have not heard a word about the privatisation of insurance - you have to tell the Greek people the truth. And especially in the area of foreign policy, be sure that we, where national positions can be served, will not rebut our obligation and commitment to be part of the national front. But you must truly give the signal of your policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u24	Before I invite Mr. Katrin from the Change Movement, to read three announcements: To the President of Parliament, Mr Tasula Konstantinos, of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece: "Mr. President, in this letter we appoint as Deputy Parliamentary Representatives of the KKE Parliamentary Group, in accordance with Rule 17(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of the Parliament, as follows: Paphii Athanasios, MP B1 of the Northern Sector of Athens, Karathanasopoulos, MP of the Law of Achaias. O Secretary-General of the Central Commission and Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece Dimitrios Koutsoubas."
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u25	From the Greek Solution to the President of the Parliament: “I will inform you that according to Rule 17(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament as First Parliamentary Representative Mr Vassiliourdos is appointed as Vassilios Viliardos and Mr Constantine Hetas is appointed as the Second Parliamentary Representative. At your disposal for any further clarification. The President of the party Kyriakos Velopoulos.”
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u26	Another letter again from the Greek Solution to the President of the Parliament: “I hereby inform you that the Secretary-General of the Parliamentary Group is Mr Vassilis Villiardos of Dionysius. At your disposal for any further clarification. The President of the party Kyriakos Velopoulos.”
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Michael Katrin has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have carefully followed the Prime Minister's programme statements, which confirm that there is no coherent reconstruction plan in the country, but a conservative agenda fully adapted to the demands of a conservative Europe. Mr Mitsotakis' central pre-election flag was the reduction of taxes, which he repeated today emphatically by quoting an endless list of announcements and promises. And all of this by a government that on the major issue of PPC, which has been employing the Greek society and the political scene for months, which is an issue of the Greek economy, seemed unprepared, unprepared and ready to resolve the problem, but has been committed to an effort to back up responsibilities to the previous government and to a simple communication management. So, Mr. Mitsotakis' sign is the reduction of taxes, which, however, has already been "determined" by Mr. Reggling, who made it clear that any reductions are being shifted for the future and after the enlargement of the tax base, with what this implies for medium and minimum layers and not, of course, what the Prime Minister has said today. Some people pretend they don't understand what the problem is. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is the great primary surpluses. The Change Movement has long been in favour of setting up a national negotiating team to reduce these very high surpluses. The Prime Minister, while in the run-up to the election he promised to renegotiate the agreement, went on to say that he would comply with the agreement to look good both on the markets and on the partners. Mr Tsipras, who was raped to grant surpluses of 3.5% by 2022, remembered to support our proposal as soon as he lost the election. Even now we welcome Mr Tsipras to the national effort to change his own decision, a decision that has been and is a loophole for the real economy and any development prospects of the country. Prime Minister, I have heard you agree at the end that the primary surpluses must be reduced and can be reduced. The point is when. Will you choose to cooperate with the other parties to claim and achieve this objective immediately? Will you choose to displease Mr. Regling and the lenders so that you can alleviate Greek citizens? Ladies and gentlemen, the political bilingualism that fuels concern and reflection is not just limited to the field of the economy, but also extends to national issues. Forty-five years after the invasion of Attila in Cyprus and one week after the elections, the Minister of Foreign Affairs recognises a role of arbitrator in the United States as regards the Turkish challenges, calling for preventive intervention. On the other hand, it is Turkey that is systematically violating international law. The violation of international law, which normally leads to the granting of sovereign rights by the person who claims nothing. Minister, only self-powered foreign policy can produce positive results. We tell you, the Change Movement, which we believe in the extroverted diplomacy that ensures and broadens the sovereign rights of both the country and Cyprus Hellenism. The reestablishment of the state, a basic slogan of Karamanlis governance in 2004, returns and is repeated as a farce by Government Mitsotakis. Ten years after the opening of the “Opengov” of the PASOK governments, New Democracy returns to the old known recipe. It appoints general secretaries without objective procedures, with strict party criteria, but unfortunately also with criteria for entering other political sites, in an unprecedented unfair political unfair. In fact, the Prime Minister himself annulled his first election commitment by arranged candidates for his party in the state apparatus, and this picture obviously does not change from today's announcement of service secretaries, while we heard nothing about the reduction of post-master officials, who had so much been involved in the public debate in the previous period. The government's agenda for security, law and order advertises the abolition of asylum and immigration. It is completely misleading how the government tackles the issue of the abolition of asylum under the pretext of lawlessness. Instead of restricting to arrangements to deal with lawlessness, it calls into question the free movement of ideas itself. As far as immigration is concerned, very soon the large majority of citizens will realise that the New Democracy will simply follow the same policy as the SYRIZA government. Will the hot spots be interrupted in the five Aegean islands? Of course not. After all, the minister responsible said during his recent visit to Lesvos that everything is almost very nice. Of course the government, and here it appears unprepared, without a plan, to highlight migration at European level. In health there is a clear parallel agenda which calls into question both the public nature of the system and the direct access of citizens to health services. It is an agenda that disputes our unnegotiable principle of providing universal, quality and free health services to all citizens, despite the Prime Minister's current announcement of the implementation of the previous government's decision on health recruitment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, I should like to refer to the question of infrastructure and the Patras - Tower motorway, which, unfortunately, there is deliberate ambiguity on the part of the government on both the way and the timing of its completion, of course, at the expense of the development prospects and safety of the citizens of Elias, but also the region as a whole and today we have seen that all five projects announced by the Prime Minister were all for Athens and Thessaloniki and none for the region. Ladies and gentlemen, after ten years of crisis and memoranda, the country cannot be in the same place almost without any visible hope for the future. The stability that New Democracy demands is nothing more than stagnation, but also stabilization at a very low level without any prospect for the majority of citizens. With the hand of the heart, with a sense of responsibility towards the citizens who expect too much from us, but also the compass of the party that is in the future, we are voting against the government's Programmatic Declarations. The Change Movement will not give a vote of confidence in this policy. The Change Movement does not give a vote of confidence in the New Democracy or Mr. Mitsotakis. The Change Movement will be present in and out of Parliament, opening the way for solutions and policies with a progressive figure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u29	Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos has the floor for six minutes from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. The government's Programmatic Declarations are far from the needs and problems of the unemployed, the workers, the self-employed and the professional craftsmen, away from poor-media farms, but also from women and young people of the populace. Why? For they maintain intact the whole of the anti-popular memorial laws, as well as the bloody primary surpluses that have led to the worsening of the position of the people's family and the deadlocks for the working class and our people. The government’s Programmatic Declarations manifested deep faith in policies that serve the needs of capital for growth that will serve the profits of the few. They declared faith in the conversion of the urban state into arm even greater support for the needs of capital in law and in order to address labour struggles and youth mobilisations. They declared faith in the further deepening of the imperialist commitments made by our country and the dangerous designs for our region. Changes in urban governance do not call into question the deep anti-linguistic character and current government policy. A common place and objective is to restore the profitability of capital following an extremely protracted economic crisis. It is the improvement of the competitiveness of the Greek economy at regional and European level, with the necessary leverage to reduce the cost of production, i.e. first and foremost of the price of the labour force and the conversion of the country into an energy and transit hub in the region, into mutual agreements, but also sharp competition with the urban ranks of other countries that cause problems in the country's sovereign rights. The New Democracy will continue where the SYRIZA government has stopped. Besides, memorial commitments are acceptable to all parties on the Euro-mono street.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u31	Please, be quiet. Those who are to talk to each other to get out of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u32	The third recent assessment of the Greek economy also defined the key objectives of the new government, namely the budgetary discipline and the respect of the bloody primary surpluses, the continuation of reactionary reforms, such as the acceleration of privatisation, the liberalisation of the energy market with PPC, to be at the current point leading to an increase in tariffs and the debts of the people's households. In fact, it is a debt that has been transferred to collecting companies that are increasingly tightening the rock to these highly indebted people's households. It is also accompanied by the acceleration of the auctions in the name of the management and reduction of red loans to improve the financial situation of banks by tightening even more the rocky to the highly indebted people's households, increasing the objective values that will eliminate any reduction of the EMSDDA that remains, another gleaning for the popular layers. Of course, the government has referred to a growth that is dynamic and fair to everyone, which could be seen as the anecdotes of the day, and indeed to an international environment that is exacerbating the contradictions of major imperialist forces in the region where the predictions of the European Union's economy are downwards are being revised. The reactionary pillars of this dynamic development of the New Democracy Government are nothing but the well-known pillars that serve and represent demands first of all for BSE, that is, new provocative and scandalous tax reliefs for business groups. Here, too, is the substance of the new Republic's tax proposal, which is entangled in the scandalous new prerogatives it will give to the large capital as a measure of general tax relief. However, this vertical reduction in capitalist taxation is of course adding to the number of subsidies that are received from various channels from the state budget, as well as the various tax exemptions and tax reliefs, as shipowners, for example. Like all previous governments, today promotes these arrangements - urban facilities, so the proposed reduction in tax rates is accompanied by a new burden on workers once the objectives of the primary surpluses have been met. Of course, the promise that investment will also bring good jobs is nothing but a wish, because if that were the case, then tourism should have the happiest workers. However, profits and competitiveness are the router that breaks down the wages, labour and insurance rights of workers, which leads to the destruction of productive powers. That is why the investment priorities that urban parties highlight are not about satisfying people's needs, but simply about bringing investments that will benefit the profits of the few, the capitalists. The consequences of capitalist development will be dramatic at the expense of workers and the people. The profound reactionary nature of your development is obvious, because the strengthening of the profitability of business groups conflicts with the satisfaction of modern and ever-enlarged people's needs. Support for capitalist profitability by the urban state is currently a rapid reduction in the social conquests of previous decades in the areas of health, education and welfare. Therefore, the anti-grass monoway will lead to new sacrifices by the people in the name of maintaining capitalist development. This way, of course, neither question him nor the various extreme right-wing structures, nor can they, of course, offer a way out for the benefit of the people and young people a number of resurrected proposals that we have experienced in the past, particularly in 2015. The way out is and is located in the exploitation of all the productive capabilities and achievements of science and technology to satisfy modern and expanded people's needs through the socialisation of the rich production sources, the productive forces, the scientific central design and labour control, the release of Greece from the European Union and NATO and the deletion of state debt. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This requires the overthrow of the association of powers, the overthrow of the bourgeois state of the monopolies dictatorship and the creation of the power of the working class.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u34	I shall conclude, Mr President. The JRC will further illuminate the necessity and pragmaticity of its proposal. In this perspective, it also integrates the development of workers' struggles, as well as of the people, the movement as a whole and its reconstruction, in order to counter the anti-grassroots policy, in order to proceed to conquests that are part of the road to total breaches and overthrows for a strong popular counter-attack. In this respect, Mr President, we state that the JRC is voting against the New Democracy Government's Programmatic Declarations.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Antonios Mylonakis has the floor from the Greek Solution for six minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully, and I am speaking for the first time before the National Representation and I feel the honour of telling you that I am quite moved. I have listened very carefully to the Prime Minister's Planning Declarations, but also to the speeches of the rapporteurs. You know, forty-five years later, since the Turkish atrocity and Attila in Cyprus, the Greek Solution refreshes the knee in front of the dead Greek and Greek Cypriots and, of course, we lost a very large part of the Republic of Cyprus. But forty-five years later, and I feel that we have not yet understood what it means not to be shielded in our national defence, for our national security with our alliances. You know, Greece after ten years of monumental situations had come to the point of losing, ladies and gentlemen, up to its national sovereignty. We gave the property of the Greek people to the lenders. And there comes Turk, Erdogan today - someone else before and tomorrow perhaps someone else - trying to hit the greatest civilization, the first democracy, the Greeks, the proud Greeks and do what they want in the Aegean and for the second time in Cyprus. Today he admits that forty-five years after the invasion of Attila 1 and Attila 2 he can repeat it. Why, ladies and gentlemen, can he repeat this? Is Greece small? Greece isn't one of the bailout powers? And what has our homeland been doing over the last few years, ladies and gentlemen, when the Turk enters the Aegean Sea with the freshwaters, takes walks, reaches Sounio, pierces with three drills on the Cyprus EEZ? And I ask all of us, and we must all do our self-criticism: What if the drill comes to Kastelorizo, ladies and gentlemen? What if this drill comes to Sunio? Nothing, obviously. We will call again for the support of America, we will say that it is our fault, which gives us S-400 missiles to Turkey, that the Republic of Cyprus is an independent Republic. Oh, no! From now on we must tell the Greek people the truth. In 1997, I remember, listening to many of the programmes of the President of the Greek Solution, Kyriakos Velopoulos, talking about the huge oil deposits and in 2007 from the Step of the Parliament, he had raised this issue a lot and even a small one, and said, and to what extent these deposits exist. But many here, who may now be among us, deceived him, tried to mock him. Today we see them in front of us. Turkey wants co-management. And the previous government comes and spoke to the Foreign Minister at that time, Mr. Nikos Kotzias, but also to Mr. Katrugalos, and today probably the current Minister for Foreign Affairs - has left now - Mr. Nikos Dendias and says that the American is the one who will enter to resolve the differences in the management of the Aegean with Turkey? I haven't understood well since when the Greek oil has to be taken half-a-half? Red lines, ladies and gentlemen! If we learn to put a red line, they will all respect us, we will have allies, and no Erdogan dares do what he does today in our homeland. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And we are now coming to foreign policy and defence. About the Prespes, what's going on? I didn't understand well. Suddenly New Democracy and SYRIZA all agree? Mr. Katrugalos said so before. Where's the New Democracy calling out that the Prespecies Agreement is a doucheful deal? Where is he? I would like the Minister of National Defence, Mr. Panagiotopoulos, to tell us what's going on. Do they recognize the Embassy Agreement? Because if we are told that it is a political issue, we will tell them that it is not a political matter at all. It's a national matter. Do we, ladies and gentlemen, start again and do the fuckin' thing? And I am sorry to say this to the New Democracy, because you said that there will not be many articles, that you will negotiate them, that you will say about identity and language. What language and identity? If the name is "North Macedonia", what is identity and language? Isn't that a Macedonian ID? I didn't understand that. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So we must stop playing with the Greek people and tell the truth. Do you want it to continue and to be maintained? Are you in agreement with this scourge, the treacherous, if you like, the criminal agreement? If not, ladies and gentlemen, then come with us. We as Greek Solution have submitted a request for cancellation to the Council of State and of course we are preparing a proposal. Thirty Members we want thirty signatures. Because there is right now in the drawers of the President of Parliament. It was kept by Mr. Voutsis, obviously against Mr. Kotzia for the last treason the Pamacedonian Unions had put forward. She's come here, she didn't get it, she hid it, like we always do under the drawers. So now we are provoking and saying: 'Come on, gentlemen of the New Democracy, and not just the JRC and the PASOK, come and testify together. We want thirty signatures.' Come on, you Macedonian MPs of the New Democracy. [[Noise in the Chamber]] You're laughing. I beg your pardon, but the JRC was against the Prespecies Agreement, which is why I am saying so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u37	Finish, Mr. Mylonakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u38	I shall conclude, Mr President. So come on, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, especially you who are Macedonian MPs, who say that you do not agree with this obsolete agreement to sign - thirty signatures we want - to send Mr Kotzias to an examination committee to see if he has done the offence of last betrayal with an agreement that the Greek people do not recognize anyway, because the name Macedonia has not been geographically determined by the Greek solution and will never accept it. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say - I could say too much more - that we should all look at the Armed Forces together. The Armed Forces of our country are the cornerstone. Here in this Chamber, we are now five soldiers, five former officers. I was a pilot. There's also Nikos Papastasis, my classmate, from the JRC...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u39	Close, Mr. Mylonakis. You've exceeded time a lot. Close, you don't have any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u40	What is happening with the Programmatic Declarations and if we could say that there are solutions, we are here. The Greek solution has solutions. He's here and he'll stay to suggest. And I would ask you very much every time we talk about sounding, because our proposals are serious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u41	We close the first circle of six colleagues with Mrs Sophia Sakova from Mera25. You have the floor for six minutes, Mrs. Sacorafa.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Mitsotakis and the New Democracy for their election victory. The Greek people assigned the country's rule to the New Democracy and at the same time gave Mera25 the opportunity and mandate, institutionally and documentedly, to support the realistic disobedience to the results of the policy that has been implemented so far and which will be followed faithfully by the present government. Believe me, because I love my country and respect democratic institutions, I would like to wish the work of the new government a success, if I could, even hypothetically, identify this success with the well-being of my fellow citizens. Unfortunately, my appreciation is completely opposite. Success in the New Democracy program means privatising insurance and social health, deregulation of labour relations and depreciating the minimum social conquests left intact by the previous government. It means a levelling of concepts and concepts, in the name of an alleged security and order, with wild repression. Asylum statements confirm that. Success in economic policy means a faithful application of what you voted in August 2015 in the name of the country's salvation. The tragic thing about the Greek people is that what you voted on at the time was contrary to the liberal ideology, which you are claiming to be serving and certainly against the left-wing concept that SYRIZA claimed to be serving. The tragic results of this policy were set out, they were signed and they were certainly in your knowledge. And the previous government has done so with great diligence. It is certain that by taking advantage of the desperation and indignation of this people - you have already done so in the run-up to the vote - and by putting forward, as philosophical, some measures that seem to give breath, you will try to cover or make the reappearance of the most parasitic oligarchy in Greece. And because I committed myself to speaking documentarily, I'm going to stand on the Greek, the emblematic investment you made, the flag of your visionary growth. I'm sure you know more than I'm going to say. But I mention them from a step by the House, so that no one can invoke ignorance or error. You know very well that if, in spite of hope, this work is carried out, as the so-called "investor" would like, it would be the final tomb tomb for Attica. I do not invoke environmentalists or activists or utopianists. I am inviting the statements of your Minister for the Environment, Mr. Souflis, when he presented the plan for the renewal of the Greek. The distance with today is chaos to the worst of course. The fact that this is why the previous government has taken care of you does not give you any alibis. In addition, I am sure you will refuse to satisfy further claims by the so-called 'investor'. And I am sure that the particular investor, Latsi Group, is the main shareholder of "ELLAS SA", with a key shareholder every time of the government. By using the same methodology, unique or sure majority, by way of ex post drastic change in terms to its benefit, always at the expense of the public interest, never paying the maximum profit and always gain. On 24 March 2014, as a Member, I applied for reference to the Prosecutor, pointing out all the irregularities of the GOI in the forthcoming divestment of the shares of the Hellenic Republic S.A... I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sophia Sakorafa, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] At that time I was struggling with many of the colleagues on the SYRIZA benches, led by the next Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras. Where did I imagine it would include it in the prerequisites? On 23 January 2015, as a MEP, I submitted a memorandum to the Public Prosecutor: "referring to the timely, discreet treatment of the Latsis Group by the respective political authority, hoping that the newly elected Left government would put an end to this practice". Alas! He didn't. I put forward a memorandum on the acquisition of ELPE by PETROLA, for its inexpensive escape from Eurobank - Labour, for the'male' merger of National - Eurobank, for the Mall - true, if you remember, count a maintenance fine to the greatest arbitrary of Europe, because the previous ones forgot it - and of course about the Greek one. I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sophia Sakorafa, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I am referring to all this, because you know it very well. If you do not remember them, ask the officials of the New Democracy who had denounced them by the former Prime Minister, Mr Karamanlis. In this emblematic investment for which you are in a hurry to start the bulldozers, we with all the legal means will stand across and stand across. Besides, we've known each other from the past with the group. And if for this investment there may be different interpretations about investing in gold mining in Halkidiki, the interpretation is unique. Definitive and irreversible destruction of the natural environment and cancer for those living, feeding and watering in the wider region. And in this investment the driving force is the profits of another so-called "investor". I will not tire you with calls for studies, reports and hundreds of found illegality by environmental inspectors. I already sent you a gift, Prime Minister, the book of the late Dimitris Germidis, "A bouquet for Midas", who was a close associate and adviser to your father, former commander of the National Bank, a member of many forums and organizations. A perfectly systemic man. It describes the crime in detail and you know it. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the growth model promised by the government, and that is the quality of the investors that invites them to implement it. We will stand against not only denounce but also presenting documented, feasible and immediately implemented proposals, which can bring real growth in the country with good jobs, respect for the environment and highlight the natural advantages of our country. It is a great responsibility to oppose government policy alone. Unfortunately, the Qualified Opposition has deprived its role, since it has to oppose its own decisions as a government. As MERA25 believers in our election speech for realistic disobedience, we will have a substantial opposition within Parliament, but above all real opposition to our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u43	Mr Alexis Tsipras, Chief of Officerial Response and Chairman of the Radical Left Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to wish good strength to everyone, young and older colleagues, and to say that the new Parliament has two important changes. It is the first House ten years ago, since 2009, which is formed with the country not to be in comitology, with the country recovering its economic sovereignty and out of the memorandum. And the second significant change is that this House is the first after 2012 without the insulting presence of the neo-nazis of the Golden Dawn, which is also a victory of the anti-fascist movement and a victory of democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, after four and a half years of uninterrupted presence in the government headquarters, my own and the SYRIZA officials, today the roles have been reversed and I am here to criticise the position of Officer Response, we are here to criticise the position of Officer Responsibility in the Programmatic Declarations of the new government. This is democracy. We honor her. That was the choice of the Greek people. We respect her. And we will continue - as we have done in government positions so and now - to put on what we believe is the good of our country and our people over every micro-group of purposes. That is why I do not intend, Mr Mitsotakis, to follow the opposition model chosen by you almost on the first day of your election as President of the New Democracy, that is to say on many occasions without limits and without any arguments, the constant catastrophe even at certain critical times and the undermining of the national effort to get the country out of the crisis. I can assure you, therefore, that I will not at least ask for elections in five months from today, as you did in the beginning of 2016 as soon as you were elected President of the New Democracy and while the government was elected with a fresh people's mandate and with a greater difference than the one you have today. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Nor am I going to ask you, I assure you, for that, for our partners to be stricter and harder with you than they were with us. On the contrary, I would like to assure you that any serious attempt you make to claim for the benefit of the Greek people, we will support it abroad, without, of course, implying that we are going to give you an inside hand. In this House and outside this House, we will be opposed to communication and criticism of the essence of your actions, because you will soon find that the country is not governed either by the image or by the propaganda mechanisms, and you will begin to be judged on the substance and on the facts. And, unfortunately, I must admit that the first samples of writing are of great concern to us. You spoke, Mr Mitsotakis, on the first day of your election about the need for unity among Greeks and Greeks and said that you would try to be the Prime Minister of all. But what are the first samples of writing? The first actions, neither unity nor innovation nor a new model of governance from what we have experienced in the past bear witness. Re-introduce party officers in positions of general secretaries to the Ministries. As far as I understand it, today you are also intending to cancel the reform we have done so that there is an institutional Secretary-General and not an appointment, chosen by an evaluation procedure. You have gathered superpowers in the Prime Minister's Office as much as any other Prime Minister from the years of Postpopulation and then, the NSA, the ERT, the Athenian News Agency will operate directly on the basis of your own suggestions. You stopped the first day of the day, the Chief of Police. You have placed political chief Secretary-General at the Ministry of Defence, with responsibility to coordinate general staff by substituting and degrading in an unprecedented manner the role of the Ministry of Defence, the role of the Chief of the Armed Forces. And what do you really do with all this? A comprehensive model with armies of advisors that will refer directly to you and the restoration of the "blue" party state. Perhaps that is what you meant when you said that after the elections Greece would become bluer. We electionally warned about this, but, frankly, I am speaking, we did not expect you to confirm from the first days of governance. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin my intervention on the issues relating to the economy. You are the first government in the Transmigration, which you cannot, you do not have the right, and fortunately you did not, at least so far, claim to be funny, the old saying "we received chaos, we received burnt land". No one will take you seriously, not only because your party has a negative story about it but because the comparison of Greece with the comparison of the day with the night. You, your resignation in 2009 delivered the country with 24 billion primary deficits and left the door open for the memorials, the International Monetary Fund and the lifting of sovereignty. In 2015, you also left us a country on the brink of the abyss, with empty funds, unemployment which had climbed to 28% and 60% for young people, with a society in humanitarian crisis, poverty and commitments to our creditors who have never been able to implement. Today you receive a country other than memoranda of EUR 37 billion in public funds, with nine consecutive quarters of positive growth rates, regulated by its public debt and a net 15-year runway and at the cheapest cost ever of borrowing on the markets. Mr Mitsotakis, however, you have won the elections with a basic promise, the promise that you will succeed, because you have a plan and I am convinced, from the very next day on, that you will convince our partners to change this agreement on primary surpluses, which is at the same time our debt-regulation agreement - this agreement that gives us this clean corridor on the markets - and you will achieve lower primary surpluses so that you can implement your basic commitment to tax relief without pillaging socially. Today you started your Programming Declarations with a commitment, not to the Greek people but with a commitment to our partners and creditors. The first commitment in your Government's Communication was that you will fully respect the budgetary balance and the agreement on primary surpluses both for 2019 and 2020. This commitment, if we put it together with all the other commitments you have made below and concern some specific tax reductions, particularly for 2020, means - if we must, that is, both these commitments must be implemented - that for 2020 - I will not mention 2019 - at least 1% of GDP must be saved, close to EUR 2 billion. So today your speech has two readings. One reading is about what you said, but the other one is about what you did not say, about what you hid, about guilt - I say silence, because to the extent that the first commitment of your speech is in force, namely that in 2019 and 2020 you will also be observing the targets of 3.5% primary surplus, or you will have to make your commitments on tax relief not to implement them - which, of course, I do not wish - or you will be forced to go to an equivalent level of charge for the Greek people and the Greek society. You will allow me to tell you that it has only taken ten days since you took the country's governance to realize that the promise to reduce primary surpluses was a promise without a basis. You failed to convince them, I guess. The worst thing, however, is not if you failed to convince them, the worst thing is that you probably haven't even tried, you haven't claimed to do so, and I would like to be clearer here. You are now referring to the prospect of smaller primary surpluses, which were the core of your opposition criticism, in an uncertain and distant future. Why are you doing this? Do you really think that there is or will be a better time for a new government to negotiate and achieve something since its election? What do you lack now to do this and will you get it in 2021? You have a language order. You have financial stability. We have taken care of that. Lower historical loan rate you have. That's why we took care of it. Support from the Opposition you have. I'm telling you, you'll have it. So why don't you try? Why do you raise a white towel from the first day on your main argument? When I was first elected Prime Minister in January 2015, of all the above you have today, I had only the first. The people's order. Neither stability nor liquidity in the funds nor support from opposition. That's why Mr. Samaras had taken care of. You guys have it all. So why don't you claim? Me for vindicating, the ones we claimed, the ones we fought for, and the end of the day, you lied to us. You lied to us and you lied to us. You who for three and a half years promise less surpluses and once you've been elected, the next day you don't even bother to claim them, but you refer them to the bells in 2021, how do we today have to describe you? In any case, the question I raise is quite clear. We are not asking you to go into any conflict. We ask you to proceed with the plan that we tabled before the European elections, because with the country's exit from the memorandum, in August 2018, we entered a new treaty. We got the lenders out of the field of decision making. We implement the goals, we have accumulated liquidity from the sacrifices of the Greek people and we have a plan for how to proceed. Now, why are you bringing them back from the back door? Why do you want to join bazaars in 2021 on surpluses and do not implement the only sustainable and secure budgetary proposal that we have tabled? You reject this in advance by yourself, before they ask you or before they refuse you. And I am referring to the proposal to pay a special account of a 'cushion' of liquidity - let us say this - EUR 5.5 billion of the 37 billion that we have accumulated from the sacrifices of the Greek people in order to ensure the possibility of an additional 1% from 2020 onwards, without violating our agreement with partners, which you well know will create reactions. So I ask you. This proposal, why do you reject it? On the basis of this plan, I would remind you that we had started voting and implementing from the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, since last September, a series of tax reliefs, but at the same time also from support measures for the weak. And the question is: What are you going to do with these measures? Will you cancel? Why did you tell us today about six truths, but I will speak to you about six guilty silences. Firstly, you did not say a word today about insurance. Cuveda! As during the election period. Most of the executives told you right and left that your plan is to bring in a new insurance reform to privatise subsidiary insurance. Where the money will be found is the question of the black hole in the public funds. Second, the benefits. You didn't tell us whether to keep them or whether to remove them. You told us sometime toward the end of your speech that they are poverty benefits. What are poverty benefits? The social income of solidarity? The unemployment benefit? The housing allowance? The family allowance? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The disability benefits are poverty benefits? So will they be maintained, or will they be abolished? Third guilty silence. You also did not say a word about whether in the 2020 budget, you will retain or remove the Easter gift that we paid as permanent provision of a thirteenth pension in May 2019. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You have not said a word to have fun with the impressions - the fourth guilty silence - in relation to what you are asked to do. Enlargement of the tax base. How are they asking you? By abolishing duty, or 9%, which you say is the lowest rate, they are not from 8,600 but from the first euro. Fifth guilty silence. The solidarity levy that we have announced will be abolished for incomes of up to EUR 20,000 and radically reduced for greater incomes. Finally, the tax advance we announced from 2020 will go from 100% to 50%. We have not heard a word about any of these issues. I hope, of course, that the Programmatic Declarations do not end today, you will have the opportunity in the next few days to respond to them. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we have also tabled a number of specific commitments concerning 2020, which were costly and secure. We are - I repeat - willing to discuss every serious proposal, if you have, in relation to the issue of reducing targets, but this proposal must be a proposal without a new burden on the back of the middle and grassroots blocks. Otherwise it will only be a compensation, which will in reality be a compensation without substance. But it is not just the case of surpluses. It is not just the case of surpluses and dubious tax evasion, which concerns us, ladies and gentlemen. It is also the incredible cynicism shown by the new government in just a few days' time from taking over power in a number of options. Comment by Tsaprani Anna: Mr Mitsotakis, one year from the great disaster, a year ago in Matti, you chose to gain political benefits and election benefits from a national tragedy. You targeted me, the government, the state officials. I took political responsibility, and as soon as the cycle of this tragedy ended and was operational, I immediately accepted the resignation he had submitted to me, in honor of it, from the first day after that, the Minister of Citizen Protection, Nikos Toskas, and I asked for the resignations of those who managed the crisis, the Chief of Police and the Chief of Firefighting. Then, I remind you, with your statements, you had attacked the then Chief of Greek Police, Mr. Tsouvala. In fact, you said: "Actually, I wonder how people today can sleep quietly and continue to perform their duties." You have explained that you are not referring to the political leadership, but to the physical leadership, the Chief of Fire and the Chief of Police. You proceeded by saying that no Greek can feel security that these people can from positions of responsibility manage another natural disaster that can happen. Today, the man who was leading at the time of the Greek Police, Mr. Tsouvala, and you were wondering whether he was sleeping at night and whether he could be in his position to manage other possible natural disasters, you appointed him as Secretary General of the Public Order, the Civilian Protection, or the Political Head of the Police. You returned him, that is, upgraded! I really want to reverse the question: With this choice, do you sleep at night? Do you feel proud and happy? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Second matter. For the position of Secretary of State for the Environment, with the main responsibility to run the investment of the Greek, an investment that has reached 95% - will now run it, to see on what terms will you have chosen to run it? Mr Economou, a executive until the day before yesterday at the LAMDA DEVELOPMENT, the company that has taken over the investment in Greek and is one of those people who have been negotiating all the time with the Greek Government on terms and procedures. We don't blame you for bringing people from the market into government positions. We accuse you of entrusting tasks and responsibilities relating to specific companies to employees in these companies. That's unprecedented! In no European country could this Minister sit in this position for one day. Because the concept of conflict of interest is one of the basic concepts. I do not understand how this really, that is, an institutional cut, is an incision to the political system. To date, we are talking about the complexity of economics with political power. Today we have direct delegation of government positions to economic power! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Thirdly and even deeper topic. Mr. Mitsotakis, a year and a half you had taken the lead both of you and your executives in the mobilisations for the Macedonian. You had embraced extremists who infiltrated these mobilizations and who gave tone many times. Many of your members called us "prostitutes", "contributors". Some of the SYRIZA MPs were found with trumpets outside their homes, with molotov bombs, the Foreign Minister with dozens of threatening notes, with bullets. You, too, took the lead in the criticism of a treacherous agreement. Now is the Prespecies Agreement good? However, that is what the new Minister for National Defence says, and that is what the Minister for European Affairs says! [[Sustained applause from SYRIZA Wing]] The most important thing, however, is not what the Minister for National Defence and the Minister for European Affairs says. You know, hypocrisy in politics at some point is paid. You'll find it in front of you. The most important thing is not what the Minister of National Defence and the Minister of European Affairs says. But you say so, too. You don't hide it. According to the information issued by London, after your communication with the British Prime Minister, a statement has come out which welcomes your commitment to fully respect the agreed Presidencies Agreements, even though you have chosen the relevant quote to be censored by the Athenian News Agency, which I am passing away, you have also taken responsibility. So you disproved that? Why did you censor it? Why did you hide it? Is it a make news from Downing Street this? I, Mr Mitsotakis, am pleased that, as Prime Minister, you have decided to keep the national line for a nationally advantageous agreement, for a historic agreement that upgrades our Macedonia and enhances Greece's role abroad. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I have told you, however, and I am confirmed: you will find in front of you at some point everything you have said and everything you have done about the Prespecies Agreement. So I wish you well with all those who have misled and cheated, both you and the extreme right wing of your party. I would like to say a few more words. I'm obviously going to have a chance to put myself in more detail. You know, it is an innovation as soon as we have spoken the programming declarations to criticise. I'll have a chance to speak more thoroughly, maybe in my dentistry. I would like to say a few words on the issues of education. You have made the asylum issue a flag. And you told us today 'end!' You told us that molotovs, violence would leave the universities because you would bring back what was in place before 2015. I won't stay so much in the event of total distortion. There was no malicious action on the basis of the existing institutional framework, where, if it were, there was no possibility of direct police intervention. But I'm actually staying. Do you want to say that in 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, the violations were nullified? Have these been defiled at the universities? Ladies and gentlemen, what I want to say is that we must finally stop, willingly or not, degrading the public universities in our country. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The public universities in our country have a high prestige. And I am proud that the National Technical University, in recent research, entered the world's first tenth for the provided high-level knowledge. But I'm leaving the asylum issue. You've been here since the first day and you've made two speeches. The first intervention: research leaves the Ministry's competence. You know, we in extremely unfavourable budgetary conditions, in the first half of the year, managed to increase the research budget to 1% of GDP. We managed, through the ELIDEEC, to have at this time two and a half thousand researchers with scholarships here and not to leave abroad. We have managed to reform a landscape that is, indeed, an investment in the future. In the future, investment in new researchers is investment. Who's gonna handle this? Will Mr. Georgiadis handle them?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u45	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u46	I wish you success, Mr Georgiadis, although - let me say - it is a question of education and the Ministry of Education. Second sample of writing: "By the good morning" you canceled the establishment of the Law School in Patras and I wonder why. I'm not saying it because I've kept the seat in the Achaia Prefecture, but Patra is one of the cities - Achaias and Patras Prefecture with her university - who is leading in education. Her university is one of the most important universities. Why shouldn't Patra have a law school? And now be careful what deep hypocrisy is. Over the past few years, we radically reformed the map of higher education and abolished this anachronistic institution of the TEIs, that our children were going there and they received diplomas of doubtful quality, and we have created, with consent, a new map in higher education, and we have created dozens of new departments and high-quality schools of knowledge. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But what is the big hypocrisy? The big hypocrisy is that you've been defending private universities for so many years, on what grounds? Don't leave our children who don't go in with the pan-Hellenic exams abroad. What do you want? While we set up high-purpose public schools to get our children there, not to go abroad, you close public universities and public schools, so that you may at some point go to private establishment. This is our great hypocrisy and fundamental strategic difference in education. On other critical issues, I will be - I hope - brief. When you were running in Kastelorizo for election, if I'm not mistaken... This Kastelorizo has pulled a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u47	And it's Ithaca!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u48	Don't worry. Ithaca will remain in history as the moment of modern reconstruction, of modern country liberation. It'll stay positive in history. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So you said there - and you accused us of reproducing make news - that you will not send the ILO. And before a elite speaks three, you are abolishing the selflessness of the ILO, abolishing the ILO, abolishing the selflessness of the Labour Inspectorate and the Environment Inspectors, which you said a moment ago that you are not giving green to anyone. There are no costly declarations to talk about ecology and green development. I really want to ask myself, because you are, after all, in order and in safety, but rather here with arbitraryness, you are a little more receptive. In the context of independence, you are squeezing the field of responsibility and action of the above bodies and the enforcement of legality will ultimately become a luxury. In short, there is a risk that the door will be opened wide open in a Wild West state: the workers unprotected, the protection of the environment unexistent and, of course, tax evasion can again flourish, as was the case in your unforgettable memory years, when you left the country with huge deficits on the brink of bankruptcy. Let me say a few words, by closing down, for the two major projects. One is the privatisation of PPC, the second - since you did not say, I will say - is the privatisation of the insurance system. For PPC you apply a traditional recipe. Traditional recipe is the creation of a depreciation climate and then, of course, the sale. The Minister responsible knows that very well because he managed Olympiacos. But you forget, ladies and gentlemen of the Coupling, your events in 2010-2014, when electricity prices were launched by 60%, but also the lending of the company to 5 billion euros, resulting in increases in a period of great decline in incomes and a deep economic crisis, cannot afford a significant share of PPC's customers to pay their bills. But your intention has since been clear. I'm talking about the years of government, Samara. It was the depreciation and sale at the end of the small PPC, it was the sale of 17% of the company and the full privatisation of IPTO, of the networks. All three of us, with a hard deal with the partners, creditors, prevented them. On our government, PPC's cutting and selling scenario was cancelled, the loan was limited to over EUR 1 billion, electricity prices decreased by 12%, energy poverty began to decline, the company's liquidity was strengthened by the repayment of old public debts and an ambitious investment programme for renewable energy was launched. Today, the same people who are responsible for the company's current difficulties are re-emerging as saviors and prosecutors at the same time, of course, taking advantage of the effects of existing ones - I do not deny it - but of current factors in PPC's financial results, such as the low production of hydroelectricity and international oil and gas prices. That was your plan, however, from 2012-2014. This was your plan and now, under the pretext that PPC was supposed to have fallen out, you are coming to proceed with full privatisation. We are telling you this clearly, because energy is a basic good, a public good, a social asset, and what we are telling you clearly is that you do not think about bringing new burdens on the electricity bills for ordinary people, on the middle class, on the popular layers. Do not think of bringing in new burdens and not carrying out this plan of divestment of public property! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The other big project is insurance. I have already referred to guilty silence. I have called on you repeatedly to speak clearly about this project. I've heard you say it's your priority. I hope so. the duration of the programme statements. To say a word about what you're planning, because today's pensioners are also struggling for what we have achieved from 1-1-2019, to prevent personal differences from being reduced. That was 1% of GDP, i.e. 1.8 billion. I wonder: Are you planning to find them from there for some tax reductions in business? We'll tell you: If you plan it, don't dare. But in any case, I do not want to expand. Tell us your positions. Tell us to talk. I will close, ladies and gentlemen, in just two words, our so-called national issues. You were too simple for programme statements, for our relationship with Turkey. Let's find them with our neighbors. Is there anyone in here who doesn't want to get along with our neighbors? Let's get together with President Erdogan. I first attempted it. You guys got me swept away. Is there anyone who doesn't want peace, good neighbourliness and cooperation? The crucial question, especially when it comes up to this Prime Minister's Step to read out programming statements from his Government, is on what basis we will find them. I have not heard a word about Turkish provocativeness. Cuveda! I have not heard a word about the need to respect our neighbours in international law. I have not heard a word about the need for respect for our neighbours in international conditions, when the drill is in the exclusive Economic Zone of Cyprus and, of course, - I do not blame you, it is a time when we must take it into account - on the day of the anniversary of the invasion of Attila in Cyprus. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I also hope that on these issues, Mr Mitsotakis, you will find two words in your speech. So I close by saying this: Your Government has undeniably received a country on its way up. This course cannot and should not be considered for the benefit of either ideas or selfish interests. You are responsible for not disturbing the path that the place has drawn at the dawn of the memorial era. In other words, you have no right, because that is not the mandate you have received, to bring new burdens to the Greek people. We will be here to safeguard everything that has been achieved with struggle and with great difficulty in recent years. We will be here with responsibility and vision for the country and for the citizens. You will find us sick in every effort that reduces burdens and strengthens the country's development perspective. But you will find us hard in the face of every attempt to rectify practices and policies that led the country to bankruptcy and to the Greeks in economic looting. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And you should know that, if you try these projects, we will prevent them, because the people's vote is not a white cheque. Democracy is also expressed in the House, but it is also expressed in the social struggles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u49	Step is called Mrs Fofi Gennimata, President of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the government's programme statements. The same pre-election rhetoric. A good report of ideas. We have heard, with reference to objectives, which relate to part of our efforts. The government's statements have, however, been vague, unnoticed and general. In fact, they're deeply conservative. The special reference to the very new one hides the return to the old one in the past of the Right. All your six truths, Mr. Mitsotakis, hide similar lies. Your statements are, in fact, ineffective and in many respects dangerous to development and social cohesion. Indeed, on 7 July the Greek people gave you the mandate to form a government. What did you tell them? You promised a change of policy. You promised it's worthy. You promised veto to Macedonia's accession process. All this, of course, Mr Mitsotakis, before the elections. But let's see how, really, you keep those promises. I heard you a moment ago say that these first days of the government show your understanding. Indeed, they were revealing. We've understood too much. We understand that you are not changing, Mr Mitsotakis, and so unfortunately Greece cannot go forward. You are asking for the support of counterpopulation. Why? First of all, you delivered yourself to the lenders. For us the necessary prerequisite for a change of policy is the change of Mr Tsipras' commitments, commitments to which, Mr Tsipras, you have signed and are not in a position today to criticise all of this. We've been talking about it for years, and we've said it now. You, Mr Mitsotakis, remembered it just before the elections, obviously for election reasons. In fact, you also brought Mr. Webber here to contribute, supposedly, in this direction. But after the elections, you also surrendered. I do not know if it took you one or two 24 hours, but you have guaranteed that you will fully and for a long time respect the commitments on the unfavourable primary surpluses. And, of course, neither a debate on the change in the role of the supergovernment and the assignment of our national wealth for ninety-nine years. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] The same commitments, Mr Mitsotakis, means the same policies. In the same spectators work! Withdrawal of valuable resources from growth and social cohesion, reduction of social benefits - which, of course, we have expected - and a mortgage on national wealth in foreign hands, which does not allow us to exploit for the benefit of the Greek people. And everything you described about its exploitation is completely in the air. In fact, you spoke about the transfer of 30% of the "Eleftherios Venizelos". I would like to remind you that 2022 is paying off, and that means that its profitability will rise. Any sale before this moment is nothing but a sale. And, of course, this road was opened by Mr. Tsipras during the previous period, giving his shares to the superstate. Although it is positive to reduce HPAI - there has also been our own proposal - they do not, Mr Mitsotakis, reach some individual horizontal tax reductions. Nor will social inequalities, which have been widened in recent years, lead to substantial growth. The opposite is true. We do not see any systematic, organised, effective policy in support of the weakest, all those who have been very poor in the policies of SYRIZA, the right-wing, the right-wing and various other collaborators. The nipple, just to say, remains, Mr. Mitsotakis. The Change Movement insists on reducing the targets from 3.5% to 2% of GDP and recovering national control and changing the role of the UFO, because this will only be a real financial space for development and social justice. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] And the fact that you did not mention the mines you received from the previous government did not do so, Mr Mitsotakis, by goodwill. You did so because you are determined to continue on the same path, precisely with the same policies. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Secondly, hypocrisy on the question of the Prespecies Agreement. Before the elections, you said that the Prespecies Agreement was a bad, nationally harmful agreement. Here in Parliament, when ratifying the agreement on 24 January 2019, you said attributes that - I am reading your own words - 'Greece can at any time veto the process of joining the European family of Skopje, and this right of our country I refuse to expel it and let everyone understand it from now'. Now we've heard you change your position. I do not know how you comment on this and how you describe it, because you referred to backwards and straight. Ultimately, the assholes continue by this government as well. Your ministers only have not given Mr Kotzia a congratulations, and they are rushing to say that the agreement was reached for a good purpose, to stabilise the region and are committed to its implementation with an absolute commitment. You yourself chose and placed as Secretary-General to your Government MP who had voted in favour of the Ambassadors' Agreement. In one way I can describe it as absolute political hypocrisy, and indeed on a very serious national issue. You're more and more like you, Mr. Mitsotakis, the Chief of Staff. We stand firm in our position: the Prespecies Agreement is a bad deal, nationally harmful, because it opens the way for new alto-lifting. Let us make it clear to you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, what your position is, what your party's position is. And be careful, Mr Mitsotakis, not to do the same in relations with Turkey. It was a very bad impression that you did not find a word to say about Turkey's provocation, especially today that is forty-five years from the Turkish invasion and occupation of Cyprus. Attila is a constant brutal violation of international law. The withdrawal of the occupying troops is a condition for any fair and viable solution to the Cyprus problem. Full implementation of international law in Cyprus is becoming even more urgent as Turkey increases its illegal claims to the detriment of the sovereign rights and the EEZ of the Republic of Cyprus. We will never resign from the struggle to overthrow the data of the 1974 invasion and occupation. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] We do not forget and will not allow the creation of new feats against Cyprus. With unity and determination, yes, taking advantage of our international alliances, we face Turkish provocation. Third point, you have a history here, Mr Mitsotakis. What can we do? The re-establishment of the state follows you and haunts you. Before the elections and for many months you flagged the state's colonization. Now, however, you are doing exactly the opposite. Law4369/2016 provided for public notices and merital criteria for selecting the Secretary-General of the Ministries. SYRIZA has naturally undermined him by promoting photographic criteria in the notices. We all reacted then. In particular, however, you put your partner on then and filed press reports on his violation. But now, then, instead of correcting SYRIZA's old-fashioned practices, you are forming the law, you are returning to the doomed past of your resignation, and you are appointing with party criteria all the secretary-general. You have proved to us, Mr. Mitsotakis, that you are a commitment to the customer's perception of your resignation, this fact that he did not hesitate to undermine the ASA with the well-known "blue interviews" and made a nomination of the public. You look excellent in the old tricks, it turns out. Even imitate Mr. Tsipras in the most horrendous practices of the takeover of executives and transactions with honorary chairs of power. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] As long as the Secretary General's place in the Citizen's Ministry, I don't care if you sleep in peace. I'm interested in being an insult to the memory of the dead. And because I heard you were going to visit the area, I suggest you take him with you, perhaps the District Director, Mrs. Duru, who was the one who had the shift on the shift. We insist that it is a very important step in the state's dismantling of the state, the proclamation of the general secretaries with transparency, with merit, with a term of office, so that there will finally be continuity in the state, as in all the advanced states of the rest of Europe. To blur the waters now in relation to the placement of your own people in public administration, you have come today to announce that you will add another step. I mean, you're going to enhance red tape from the top. It is not enough for the bureaucracy that exists so far! Ladies and gentlemen, it is not just the ruthless abandonment of the election commitments by the current government. We have within a minimum of time options with a deep conservative mark. Very quickly, this election supposedly "national blue" became "deep party blue" on the right. I should like to mention, for example, the statements by government MPs on the Government's intentions to convert the insurance system into a capitalisation scheme for main and supplementary pensions for young workers, which leads to further weakenment of the public social character of insurance, after, of course, the deterioration brought about by the unacceptable law of SYRIZA, the so-called Katrugalos law. You said absolutely nothing about pensions and insurance. I would like to point out the logic of a police officer by transferring from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Civil Protection - listen - to the detention and reintegration of detainees on the pretext, of course, always of security. The creation of penalties, the protection of juveniles who need custody, cannot and must not be the responsibility of the police in a civilised, modern state. The solvent situations that SYRIZA has actually created in prisons must be dealt with, but not with such ideologies, but with staff recruitment, training and modern security technologies. The third point I would like to highlight is the unacceptable act of transferring the General Secretariat of Equality to the Ministry of Labour and its involvement in general family issues. I also heard you say in the election campaign that technology now enables women to work from home. So that is obviously the direction you are giving this secretariat, how we're going to close women at home again. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] The conquest, Mr Mitsotakis, of the real gender equality requires bold policies relating to all the policies of the state and, of course, to our educational system, because that is where the education of young people is built and that changes attitudes and perceptions. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] It was disarmamentous to answer Mr Mitsotakis - and you do not get rid of yourself - and, indeed, in an international instrument, when he was asked why there are only five women in the government. He replied that unfortunately there were no other willing women who would be interested in dealing with them. Even the SYRIZA degradation operation that is evolving is a faithful copy of the practices of the caramanlic period that led to the derailment, the crisis and the memoranda and, of course, the continuation of the SYRIZA policy that is now shedding crocodile tears, but as a government it is responsible for the limitation of over six thousand cases of major tax evasion. Ladies and gentlemen, we are determined to exercise a combatant, responsible and programmen opposition, with faith in national understanding - of course - on the big issues, on our national issues, on the need to change the Tsipra commitments for overcrowds and overcrowding and the completion of constitutional reform. We are the progressive counterweight to defending the people's interests, public goods and the social state. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] The Movement of Change will be in Parliament the voice of the people, of the people of production, of work, of science, of the weakest, of women and of the young people, always presenting our own documented alternative proposal for what must be done, for what serves the needs of the Greek people and the country. It is a bet for all of us, for the whole political system, the definitive and real exit of Greece from the crisis. Enough with the continuing decline in the per capita income of the Greeks with the policies that led to four Greek regions being among the twenty poorest in Europe! And I did not hear you say a single word about the Greek region! You have only been involved, Mr. Mitsotakis, with Athens and Thessaloniki. But Greece is not only Athens and Thessaloniki! [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Enough with the Brain Drain that undermines our country's future. To achieve this, in order to stop the country's path of divergence, in order to bring about convergence with the rest of Europe, we need to achieve a very high growth rate, to make large investments in the country. And I come to the contention that Mr Tsipras' government left a heavy legacy in this place. It's time to talk, finally, open. Clear words, Mr. Mitsotakis. Firstly, the country, yes, needs investment. We believe in speeding up licensing procedures for construction and land use. We have already proposed, as an incentive to reduce taxes on businesses to 20%, to reduce VAT by two points and to reduce farmers' tax to 13%. You didn't make any mention. Only in general will you claim the new CAP. Here, now, handcuffed for farmers, what do you have to tell us? But attracting investment does not mean immunity. Regulators should be strengthened and their rules respected and controlled. The NSRF must be exploited. First, however, we are concerned to help small and medium-sized enterprises co-operate and cooperate in order to withstand competition, create national protagonists and, of course, strengthen the competitiveness and extroversion of our agricultural products. You said nothing about all of this, not about small and medium-sized enterprises, nor about agricultural products. Today, what's going on in the place? We have high primary surpluses and a low public investment programme. We propose low primary surpluses and a high level of public investment. 1.5% of GDP must go for investment and tax reduction. A debate has been opened in Europe on Eurobonds, a debate that we must follow as a country very seriously and very closely, because its use by our country, together with the reduction of primary surpluses, can contribute to even greater financing of investment for both our country and the Greek people. That's the key! Secondly, respect for the world of work. Mr Mitsotakis, you have not said anything about the world of work today, and we have remained with the last relevant statements you made in the BSE sector, but they create very serious questions and need answers in the next few days here in Parliament. Will you respect the collective agreements, their extension and their compulsory application in order to ensure decent wages? Will the minimum wage be increased and will the social partners themselves be defined through the National General Collective Convention? What is the future of the Labour Inspectorate? I think it is inconceivable that labour and insurance legislation for workers should not be fully applied. To create new jobs, do not expect, Mr Mitsotakis, that the market will automatically resolve this. Finally, we have told Mr Tsipras for years about our proposal: for every 100 euros he spends on an additional new job created by the company, he is taxed for 150. This is a financially neutral measure. Thirdly, the question of the resolution of PPC is a direct one. SYRIZA devalued it and, in fact, scandalously led it to a financial deadlock with a systemic risk for the whole economy. So bring an integrated plan for its rescue and do not denounce it more by your ministers' statements that it has not attempted to get any columns. These statements are disastrous. Don't you understand? Unless you have decided to sell it for a piece of bread. Tell us where you're going. Ensure public control, because access to electricity is a public asset. Ensure workers' rights too. Of course - we have already said so, and I repeat it here - it is unacceptable and incomprehensible that all thoughts should be taken over to the public by increasing electricity tariffs. Fourth point: dealing with lawlessness in universities. The issue of asylum is a serious one, but it is not the only problem for upgrading public education, which SYRIZA's policies have led to a collapse. Irrespective of course, and must be addressed, why is it undermining the public university and restricting access to quality knowledge of whom? The least privileged students, i.e. those most in need of access to the public university. There is a simple solution, to bring to Parliament and to vote on Article 3 of Law 4009/2011, a provision that had then been passed by the House with a very large majority, which fully protects free teaching, research, academic freedoms. Of course you will bring it with the necessary legislative improvements to ensure that it is implemented this time and that violence and lawlessness are effectively dealt with in the universities. Fifth point: The new electoral law. We have tabled our proposals in time for a fair and proportionate electoral system that ensures sustainable governments. Ladies and gentlemen, the abolition of a mere act of political stability is not enough. Real political stability requires governments of a wider popular and parliamentary majority, not weak governments based on the bonuses of the fifty seats. Mr. Mitsotakis, many words are poverty. It is time that you submitted your own positions on the change of electoral law at the beginning of your term of office. There is no room for games with the institutions and with such serious issues, and there is, of course, no white cheque for that. Sixth point: Changes in the Criminal Code. SYRIZA, the last day before the dissolution of the House, voted for the new Criminal Code that had him for four and a half years in his drawers and caused serious problems and caused serious questions. Changes need to be made that do not really allow the release of terrorists and favorable treatment of convicted criminals for very serious cases. However, since criminal law is the basis of the rule of law, corrective actions should be taken in a studied and politically sober manner, not fragmented, with reasonable satisfaction of party audiences, but with dialogue, i.e. serious, serious and responsible this time. Seventh point: Integration and social protection of the rights of persons with disabilities. The National Confederacy of Disabled Persons has sent to the Government and political parties its comprehensive proposal for a national programme for the implementation of the Convention on their rights, which the House has ratified since 2012. We ask the government to adopt the main guidelines of this programme and to cooperate with the ESDP in its implementation. Eighth point: the claim of German debts. To implement immediately the decision to establish a permanent parliamentary committee and to begin with the government's responsibility all diplomatic and legal actions to claim the Greek claims, in accordance with the recent decision of Parliament. Ninth point: There are three major modern challenges asking for answers and commitments. The first is the application of a new digital age framework to the economy. We must prepare ourselves very quickly as a country to ensure that the human resources can respond, follow and there will be no problems. Also, it is to take steps to reverse the degressive demographic path. We've discussed this. We had requested a Intergroup Committee. We need to keep working. It's a national threat. This must be done in conjunction with the reduction in the departure of young people abroad. The third challenge is to promote actions against climate change, but also to take advantage of geopolitical opportunities in the wider region for the economy, the country and Hellenism. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate our firm decision on the full investigation and disclosure of the causes that led to the Greek economy and society in the crisis and the lip of destruction, as well as the accountability of the manipulations for the Memorandums and their impact on the country and its citizens, not to solve, ladies and gentlemen, old bills and get the reunion - we do not have such perceptions, nor do we believe in the criminalisation of the country's life policy - but to finally find out what happened in this place, what the mistakes were, what we should never repeat again so that we do not find ourselves in the same place. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] We will therefore return in the autumn our proposal to set up a committee of inquiry into developments in the economy from 2001 to today. It is a proposal that SYRIZA and New Democracy for mutual benefit, as understood, have been denied over the past period. Why, let us not forget, the New Democracy took political immunity from Mr. Tsipras for the responsibility of financial derailment and Mr. Tsipras in exchange for taking the caramanlic component in his government, which not only held him in power, but also gave him critical and useful pockets of support and control in the deep state. We welcome you to Greece, Mr. Tsipras. You have landed today, as it turns out, because after so many years you have decided to smuggle something about the responsibilities of the Right, the New Democracy, now that you have been in Anti-Policy and you do not need their support. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are the only progressive pole against maintenance forces, the ideological rival of the New Democracy and the stable against SYRIZA populism, which, as we have seen very clearly today, continues. The criterion of our choices has three priorities: first, Greece, democracy and the right of the citizen. Any policy that promotes national objectives, any policy that unites the Greeks, any policy that strengthens the position of Greece in Europe and the wider region will find us allies and supporters. Any choice that weakens democracy with arbitrary power, manipulation of institutions, will find us at the frontline of resistance and any decision that impairs rights, curtails freedoms, increases inequality, raises walls toward the citizen, finds us firmly across the street. For us, the right to dignity for all citizens is a priority. Our social flag is dealing with inequalities and protecting the weaker ones. So the Change Movement is here. The Democratic Party is here and gives its own mark to politics and developments, the mark of modern European social democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement rejects the government's planning statements.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u51	Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas, Secretary-General of the Central Commission, and President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, will be joining the Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, you have just left, but the representatives of your Government and your party are listening to the programming statements you have read today, we have heard them from you and your staff throughout the election period and the days of course following the vow of your government. With honesty in front of the Greek people we tell you that we did not expect at all your programming statements at all, as the Commission did not expect your Government to form itself to announce its recommendations for Greece on 8 July. We were aware, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that within this House you will not have great difficulty in passing your policy, since, apart from the majority of you, SYRIZA and the other urban parties support the prerequisites, the memorandum commitments and show with you the well-known tale that social prosperity in this place will come with the strengthening of the profits of the great capital. Everyone, together, is trying to hide that your common goal of becoming more friendly in entrepreneurship is equivalent to policies and measures that continuously dismantle workers, increase exploitation, sacrifice social needs, remove popular income to finance rich domestic and foreign groups. Unfortunately, however, for you, there is and stands against you and the working people's movement and the JRC. There is and will be further reinforcement of the power of the people's opposition, which is struggling every day in order not to go through any new anti-popular measures. The force he is pushing, organizing struggles to relieve and improve the position of workers, the force that goes forward to open up the path of real overthrow, which, of course, as you all know, the Greek people know, is synonymous with socialism. Your story, which asks the people to continue their allegedly temporary sacrifices and to wait better days in the ultimate future, i.e. as soon as the profits and investment of business groups are increased, is not at all new. It may sound good in the ears, but it has been proved in practice that it has nothing to do with the truth. Your new announcements, which exploit the entire arsenal with which SYRIZA provided you, confirm that the attack against our people will escalate. Your tax program calls for your goals. In your attempt to convince the big capital of your effectiveness, you are struggling with Mr. Tsipras for who is the most friendly to the major business groups. For every measure in favour of these groups proposed by SYRIZA, you put one more thing: 150% overdepreciation by SYRIZA, 200% by you. Reducing capital taxation from 28% to 20% in two years, lowering dividend taxation to 5%. We're asking you, ladies and gentlemen. We all know that big capital only pays EUR 3 billion of the EUR 55 billion in the budget today. The people pay 95% of tax revenue and big capital only 5%. How much will these few people, the ones we call big capital, pay for your new arrangements? Less and less that he's paying now. Promise, to gold the pill, that the workers will also see a fall in their taxes. You share unadulterated promises to drastically cut the tax rate. But you're not telling us one thing. Who's gonna pay for the broken ones? How will it be that you reduce by one and a half billion companies' taxation, at the same time reduce the employee's tax, and once again get out of the surplus with which you are committed? The only answer you give is the promise of a spectacular increase in the rate of growth, but which, even if it is achieved, will result from hunger wages, by smashing workers' rights. Besides, you decided to copy something from the SYRIZA system too. You will reduce the burden from one pocket only to increase on the other. Continuous hurricanes to reduce dutyfree revenue prove that for the people money is not falling out of heaven. Any reduction in tax rates will be accompanied by a much-needed expansion of the tax base, a type of re-examination of tax duty and tax rebates, that is to say, simply to explain with a transfer of tax burdens from one place to another. In another, probably not in the other, to be more precise. But, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, if you would like to originalize, you could really extend the tax base. Tax, we tell you, shipowners who do not pay almost any tax. That's it. It would be a really positive piece of shit from you, as the Prime Minister said in his statements before, referring to Mr Tsipras. Ladies and gentlemen, you are contemplating the changes that you will bring to the operation of state administration. You spoke about electronic services, about radical changes in the way investment proposals were assessed and controlled. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the undermining of even careful control of the Group's investment proposals and the requirement that the administration responds to suffocating timetables that you think it leads precisely? Does it even lead to the elementary protection of the environment, as you said? Does it lead to the protection of the health of our people? Does it lead to an assessment of the real consequences of an investment in local economies? We know, we fully understand that all of this is none of your concern, neither you nor your predecessors of the SYRIZA, because they, too, do not concern themselves with the Monday Presence, they say, but with the potential, of course, to send our people, the pensioners more quickly where they will wait in peace'resurrection of the dead and the life of the future of the century'. So that pensions are not paid, that is, from the increase in average life. That's your logic, that's your schedule. You, in fact, have reached the point of trying to mock some state officials for their scientific opinion, such as what they are and what they are not forests, forests and others. This is what you do in the case of the Greek. In your attempt to appear to the great chapter of SYRIZA's more effective, you reach out to him politically, to make him an alibi on the left that he needs to fish for our honest, honest votes of fellow citizens, that he has been dominated by left-wing ideas, as you say them, and that is why he has put a brake on development for so many years. The notorious reforms in the state's way of operation can be described very simply by a phrase: Supreme law to ensure maximum profit. You are planning a new state with electronic services, with exclusive and narrow deadlines, to which the competent bodies must respond, with changes in the context of investment control, with the sole aim of extinguishing all the obstacles that investors find in front of them. You continue the same energy policy of your predecessors, which in the name of environmental protection premiums the huge profits of investors in renewable energy sources, based on the bleeding of popular layers, through the great electricity bills and, at the same time, destroys mountains and forest wealth. If you were really interested in the environment, you would not increase electricity generation from imported gas with huge waste energy to support private groups that make profits on the liberalised market. You would be burdening large hydroelectric plants, for example, which contribute to water supply, irrigation and flood protection at the same time. If you were interested in all the people's needs, you would support the use of the domestic lignite with modern technology, more environmentally friendly, with units of a combined high energy efficiency cycle. However, what is of interest to today's anti-population bipolar, and you of the New Democracy and you of the SYRIZA, is to complete the liberalisation of the market, in line with the guidelines and the Commission, in order to win a handful of groups. The directions you are promoting have not come about now, with the recent negative financial results of PPC. They are choices to promote the liberalisation that exist in your programs many years ago. The reduction of lignite electricity, the privatisation of lignite and hydroelectric power stations, the reduction of PPC's wages and number of employees, the hunting of popular households that cannot pay the bills. They are not new government targets that have emerged very quickly in order to save PPC. Moreover, PPC’s current economic situation is directly related to the reduction of its market share due to liberalisation, the burden of lignite production with the European Union’s green policy of polluting pollutants, the difference in the existence of a social family invoice in relation to its competitors and the auctions with which PPC sells less electricity to its competitors and buys it again. Neither the PPC and energy workers benefited from these developments, nor the people's households who experienced resurrected increases in electricity prices and owe unpaid bills. After PPC you are preparing to complete the privatisation crime in everything that SYRIZA has not been able to privatise, implementing the guidelines of the memorandums. You're already getting ready with E.D.A. and E.D.D. SYRIZA has already set the way by reviewing the water pricing framework and implementing the relevant European directives and now you come to complete the project by privatising either the most profitable aspects, as your predecessor was preparing, or by selling a business share package. Really, gentlemen of the New Democracy, will you lighten the popular layers? Exploring the burden on the people's family? And of course, there are airports, shipyards, Larco, but there are also a number of public services, since you are getting to talk even about assigning private property to even public works. You are not original, of course, the memorials have captured the road and all the governments to date are following this course. Ladies and gentlemen, your policy on red loans also does not create any kind of surprises. Bankers and industrialists say they need new funding, new cheap loans that will feed capitalist growth. The supervisory report highlights the same problem as the problem of red loans. The banks are in a hole in many tens of billions of euros. And what do you intend to do? Take advantage of the entire relevant system created by SYRIZA and proceed to a auction pogrom in order to convince the highly indebted people's households to repay the largest possible portion of the loans they have received. The protection arrangements, brought by SYRIZA, are arrangements for the repayment of loans so that you don't fly out of setup. After all, all the positions on 'pays', which you are seeking to bring, have the same meaning: to get used to working people, people's layers of greedy touching on their money, those that they are making, in taxi, in the bank, anywhere, subjecting themselves to the reasoning that they are skeptical and not only the owners or industrialists, who are snooping that the loans taken were in the period before the crisis, with other wages, with other incomes, and that the wages have been bogged down since then, which reflects the responsibility for the crisis not having the people, the populace, but the state of capitalism itself and the capitalist development path. This is what you plan to do in this, and you plan to multiply auctions in the next period. However, the JRC will be here and will enter the front and with the workers we will not allow you to make the hammer the livelihood of our people. The same sign is given by the hundred twenty doses. You have a courage even to display the hundred twenty doses as a relief. What you are doing is trying to legitimise in the consciousness of the workers unjust, anti-linguistic taxes and debts, to form a legal and technical framework to facilitate the repayment of debts to the state. Your real aim is, with the threat of losing regulation, to force hundreds of thousands of people's homes, who now have "tax fatigue" - to use your own language - to repay their debts and to gain tax consciousness. No, Mr Mitsotakis, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, it is not a provision for us to pay in instalments the great taxes and red loans. The only solution to the problem lies in the workers' demands, in the legal proposals put forward by the JRC here, and they provide for a radical cut in the debts of people's families by charging the burdens only on large capital. Ladies and gentlemen, you are also celebrating the issue of the bond at the lowest interest rate, which, as you say, is a vote of confidence in the markets in the Greek economy. We agree with you. The publication you have made is really a vote of confidence in the markets. It is a vote of confidence that you will implement the anti-grass measures to the antenna, a vote of confidence that you will achieve bloody primary surpluses for the coming years, a vote of confidence that you will implement any reform required by the big chapter. It is a vote of confidence that the situation for workers will become worse and worse. It is a vote of confidence not only to you, but also to your predecessor, Mr Tsipras. Purchases actually confirm that you are capable enough, both you and the previous ones, to break popular rights, to face up to indignation, to tell the people that you have to bleed to ensure profits for groups, growth rates, primary surpluses. But why should workers be pleased? You're telling us, we're told by the previous people: 'Okay, we're a little bleeding, we're going to bleed a little more, but, uh, kids, growth comes, things are coming'. Really, who are you kidding? The minimum wage is still well below 2009 levels, and now BSE even denounces the impoverished increase made by SYRIZA pre-election. The average wage by dissolving the whole system of collective bargaining that existed before the crisis has collapsed and continues to decline. Work relations have literally been overshadowed. What good-paid jobs are you talking about? At the same time, costs have been high for the education of our children, for health, for the care of the people, for culture, for sport - which is necessary - it is not a luxury - the necessary holidays, too, for rest of the people's families. It is now enough that the 'caramella' of development, whose effects will be rapidly diffused throughout society. We found out, we're sick of her now, she's tired of us all. We have experience. For example, the tourism sector and its development over the past period, where did it lead? Is it the abolition of the elastic employment relationships, the semester? Is it in working conditions that approach modern needs? In the same direction are the announcements made by the new government and the thousands of self-employed, for small freelance professionals. Election promises and announcements to support small and medium-sized entrepreneurship do not hide that only the major capitalist enterprises will continue, which - as in the SYRIZA government - do not fit the needs and demands for the survival of thousands of small and medium-sized traders, craftsmen and professionals. The restriction to some extent of the great tax burden you have promised in the previous years - which you, as a government, have also taken a more flagrant measure of taxation than the first euro for professionals - is not going to radically change the situation of overcompensation, in which thousands of them have been found with tax, with the banks chasing them every day. What, for example, do you intend to do for Chiotis a small businessman, who is known as a bank to take the house out of the hammer through the electronic auction process that the SYRIZA's other left-wing government has adopted? Will you stop the auction process? You will delete interest, fines that go beyond - if you can think about it! - even the same initial amount of the loan? But the JRC won't let it go. A similar question will be tabled immediately to the House and to the Minister responsible, asking for a solution immediately. That is what the thousands of four hundred inhabitants of the island are asking for, who have signed a resolution on this. What exactly will your attitude be? Your directions are, of course, open. The policies you have announced are support policies only for large capitalist enterprises and not for free trades. The European Union's guidelines for small and medium-sized entrepreneurship - which you have, as you say the previous governments, have, as you say, the funding programmes accompanying them, the OECD toolbox only concern few and selected, i.e. large capitalist units and larger, more dynamic medium-sized enterprises. These competitiveness and profitability you want to support rather than thousands of self-employed, small and medium-sized free professionals, who will continue to be regarded as a structural problem for the Greek capitalist economy. All of these will continue to be tortured for their survival, passing on the condolences of monopolistic competition in conditions of life and work increasingly difficult. The Communist Party has supported and will continue to support the fair demands of the self-employed, who are literally requests for survival for the majority of them and for their families, such as their reintegration directly into the tax-free limit, the deletion of part of their debts to taxi and banks with direct deletion of interest and fines, but also of 30% of the due initial amount, the deletion of interest and fines and the amount corresponding to the contribution of health and personal insurance to Efka, with decent pensions, with the recovery of losses of previous years and not the rampages of private insurance companies, the abolition of the laws on the liberalisation of Sunday holidays. We will support and be at their side to strengthen the claims to strengthen their joint action, their alliance with the working class, the farm. All of us must fight together against the strategy of strengthening the great capital that you are promoting together with the European Union, just like the previous ones from you. Ladies and gentlemen, in order for this anti-population policy to pass, it will certainly require the intensity of repression. This is why the New Democracy raises the flag of "law and order" with the first objective, as the Prime Minister said today, the abolition of asylum, making use of propaganda and at least curious in some cases tolerating previous governments in the activities of organized crime in neighbourhoods in Athens and the surrounding university schools. In this effort, the New Democracy Government can only thank the previous SYRIZA government for doing half the job. Because the New Democracy's intention to make limited changes to the new Criminal Code leaves its essential reactive content, which the SYRIZA Government has adopted, on the one hand, as regards the legalisation of American inspiring institutions, which violate the rights of the accused, and which introduce a trade of sentences that are to be blackmailed against poor, even innocent indictees, and, on the other, the maintenance and reinforcement of provisions and penalties against popular movements, to the detriment of people's freedoms and rights. Why also do New Democracy, like SYRIZA, on account of the marginal situation in prisons, do not go through a series of necessary measures, such as the recruitment of the necessary staff, the qualitative and quantitative upgrading of infrastructure, the adoption of integrated measures for the effective reintegration of prisoners? On the contrary, following the recycle policies on SYRIZA, the New Democracy is moving one step further, in reintroducing top-security prisons of Type III, in transferring the General Secretariat of Anti-Criminal Policy of the Booking Inspection and Control Corps and a number of others - not to mention, you know - the responsibility of the Ministry of Civil Protection. In other words, a number of services are being transferred to the repressive mechanism, not to the suppression of crime, but to the administration of justice, education and finally to the reintegration of the convicted. It is characteristic that the coroners are placed for the unacceptableness of this action, as they point out that the victims of police arbitrariness, for example, will come to a service where the police will be its supervisor. Ladies and gentlemen, that is also the government's direction to foreign policy. He continues NATO's flagship policy, i.e. the SYRIZA Government, and he shows NATO's cooperation with the United States and Israel in particular as a shield for sovereign rights and the preservation of peace in the region. These are said at the same time that the Turkish Government is unreservedly escalating the illegal drilling in Cyprus, the constant violations in the Aegean and openly questioning, with the maps of the blue country, the Greek and Cypriot EEZ. Nevertheless, the government with the support of SYRIZA insists on strengthening the institutions of the country with NATO, the USA, the European Union and preparing a new long-term cooperation agreement with the USA. The Greek people must also know the truth about the role of the United States of America and NATO in Greek-Turkish relations. Greece and Turkey have been members of NATO since 1952, but problems remain and become acute. Don't mention and eat time on different time examples. Turkey's bourgeois order is in cooperation and competition with Greece's bourgeois order against the peoples of both countries - to explain ourselves. They are guided by the geostrategic upgrading line and much more today, due to the hydrocarbon deposits in the area, competition between them becomes even more dangerous. The strategy of the famous "Blue Home" presents claims in the eastern Mediterranean, the Aegean Sea, the Balkans, the Black Sea and elsewhere and is linked to the relevant military exercises. In the eastern Mediterranean and the Aegean, terms have been created even for a 'hot' episode, which will trigger the American and European mediation, as is said, most diligent, with the aim of promoting projects for co-exploitation, the management of the Aegean against sovereign rights and Greece and Cyprus. On the territory of the dangerous developments in the region, we are once again pointing out that there is a danger that the practice of reassurance followed by the SYRIZA Government and other parties, beating on the intervention of the alleged protectors, who are only part of the problem and are, of course, a major cause for the exacerbation of the problems. In practice, too, this myth of confidence-building measures has also been destroyed, which are being recovered at every stage of deepening relations between the two countries, but in essence they have proved not only ineffective, but are also being used as a mechanism for negotiating claims. At the time of the KYSEA was convened in June 2019 and additional measures were taken to prevent Turkish drilling in Greek maritime areas such as Kastelorizo, the dialogue on confidence-building measures continued and the question of each Greek citizen is reasonable: What was discussed in these Greek-Turkish negotiations? Part of the above developments are those concerning Cyprus, the Cyprus issue. The occupation has been maintained for decades and reassuring interventions for the role of the European Union have proved myth, for example. The expectations for a solution to the Cyprus problem proved false, on the basis that Cyprus is a member of the European Union. The lasting inter-Community negotiations under the umbrella of NATO, the European Union, the United States and the guarantors, Britain, Turkey and Greece, not only did they not bring a fair and sustainable solution to the Cyprus problem, not only did they not lead to the removal of the occupying troops, but they were also dangerously built on a partitioning solution in this process of two states. Turkey is surpassing and assimilating the critical interventions of both the United States and the European Union, and over the last few years it has violated the sovereign rights of Cyprus, as shown by the drilling of the "Actort" on the west of the island, on the Cypriot EEZ, and also the activation of the "Yavuz" geotreat to the east, in the Karpasia peninsula. The European Union's previous verbal complaints, or even the decisions taken at the Foreign Affairs Council on Monday, 15 July, coexist with the basic position of the European Union facing Turkey as a strategic partner, with strong trade and economic relations and, of course, go hand in hand with the promotion of economic interests by strong Member States of the European Union, such as Germany, France, with their investments and others. These relationships are, in practice, decisive and contribute to the coverage of Turkish action in the course of time. All this is important to consider today specifically, which is the forty-fiveth anniversary of the Turkish invasion of Cyprus. Remember, not just by participating in memorials for the heroic dead and for anniversary reasons, but to draw useful conclusions for the present and the future. With this issue I would like to close my speech on the Programmatic Declarations of the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, since there is no more time. After all, they will be placed on all of this and on what we have not been able to say here, such as health, education, which are huge issues, together with the others mentioned, the MEPs of the JRC this three-day period. Finally, I would like to say on behalf of the JRC Parliamentary Group that we do not give a vote of confidence to the government. We are voting against another anti-population government, one of the ones our country has known for all these years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos, President of the Greek Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying that I was sad, because at least today we had to keep a minute of silence for our Cyprus. One minute's silence! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] We did not. Maybe it was everyone's fault, but we had to think about it. I am referring to, because history is a spiral, you know, which is repeated. Today the same is happening. Today Erdogan said he could go down from where the Turkish army is. So we need to be prepared for a lot of things. I would like to begin by telling the Prime Minister that he might be electorally unaware of us. So I will tell him that we are the ones to make constructive criticisms. We'll try to help a government understand that the Rot is not right and change direction. I would also like to say to him that we are people who work every day and we have businesses, we have jobs and we are not professional politicians, and it is not any reproach for anyone. We are people who love the country, which we call "first Greece, first the Greeks", we hate no people, no world, but above all we do not negotiate our national sovereign rights. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I start like this because the Prime Minister had a distorted perception, I imagine, by election. He did some word failures. It has been mentioned many times in a non-politically elegant way in the Greek Solution. We will tell him one thing: who loves democracy and who respects the institutions will prove here in Parliament. Anyone who works more for the good of the Greek people and not saying words and promises a whole lot of things to make fun of him as I have heard today. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I'll prove it to you with what I'm about to say. One minute on national issues, Prime Minister. I know you're a little weak, that you're a fit, but I didn't expect you to be. Forty minutes, one minute for Greek-Turkish, one minute for Skopje, one minute for Northern Epirus or Katsifa, and all Rama the drug dealer does and thirty-nine minutes of compulsion. Demand! And I'm going to say something strange here, because I'm going to say it directly: New Democracy is going to go wrong. Prime Minister, because you are a technocrat in mind and perception, tell me: Government with fifty a Minister and Undersecretary is there? You said that in the election that you would have fifteen ministers. Suddenly, we got 50! Why? Since you were pro-electionally saying that you want a few members of the government. Either you were lying in the election or your fifteen people could not do their job properly. So let's choose what's true. Whatever's true, you're exposed politically at least. If the project is right, your second choice will be commendable. We'll see it along the way. That is why I say 'building criticism'. Prime Minister, you made me the wolf guard the sheep. "Lamda DEVELOPMENT" official, do you put him as Secretary of State responsible for the Greek? I think that this is also inconsistent to some extent, it is immoral. I mean, I'm the employee of a company, I come back to a government as a minister to negotiate the public interest. You know, I don't really tie up this thing. Mine might be wrong, but something's wrong. I'm not saying it's the government's business to Mr. Latsi. For God's sake! Don't say that. But the importance of my friend Adoni, who is not here, concerns me in Greek. And you know, casino investment doesn't exist. When you set the urban web a slot casino with roulettes, you'll lose all of Athens. In no country in the world is that happening. In the United States casinos are in Atlantic City. Where do you put the casino? Do you understand that? You realize you're putting the roulette inside people's homes? It's wrong. I won't tell the rest. Because to me the Greek is a town crime. You're going to set up skyscrapers on the coastal front? Do you understand what you're going to do? The meltets underneath will not pass. Will you set up a skyscraper on the coastal front in an earthquake area like Athens? Where have you seen this? Yesterday there was an earthquake. Where are we going? Now you'll tell me about earthquake buildings, etc. I am not concerned about this because it is not up to you, Mr Mitsotakis, that. This depends on the private investor who looks at the profit. It won't make a much costly investment in the skyscrapers to be earthquakes. We'll see all this in front of us. Let's go to the rest. Are you - says - in charge of the RES? Did you reason with the RES? Say it! You censored because of Mrs. May? You are the political leader now of the ERT, and wherever you are. You took May's word. That's unbelievable. There wasn't that, next time, to a Greek Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u55	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u56	Yes, I am referring to northern Macedonia, Mr. Chiara. If you didn't, say it. Because it's written and it's called in the press and a lot of things are being discussed. You put General Secretary to the Ministry Mr. Tsubala. I don't know the man. There are, however, two possible: Or in the election, you were lying and making speckles, Prime Minister, on the dead - unfortunate - or you said - I will say it directly - everything you have said to become a government. Decide. Today, what did you do? You put the man you complained it was his fault, and he was the chief chief and all that, Secretary General of the Ministry. When were you lying? If you were lying before, you said "we were wrong, it wasn't Tsubalas's fault, we put him as a secretary". But you didn't say so. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, you did not say so. Not to mention Mr Mavrotas, whose party broke through - as a journalist, I say - that Theodorakis, the President, said that there were Members of the New Democracy, who were asking to vote on the Potami agreement. Oper and done. Suddenly you take the Black One and put him as secretary. You put him somewhere. What for? Didn't you say it was treacherous, bad, criminal, press deal? Do you approve of the criminal or the moral automobile of the vote? It's a little contradictory. I've seen a lot of contradictions, Prime Minister. It is the first time that I have been following the Greek Parliament - for I was five and a half years a Member - where the Prime Minister wears more today in his programme statements than he had said in the election. Today you've populated. I was about to applaud you underneath. What you said is so nice. But listen. It's a beautiful dream to be true. And I'll prove that to you now. Because it's good to say things, talk about tax reliefs and tax exemptions. That sounds good in the ears. I remember, however, the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, when he was an official opposition to say to Mr Tsipras - who is not usually absent - the following: 'You have taken the pensions to give the sceptic'. So I come to the suspect and say: To give all this and get the green light of lenders, what can you give to be satisfied with both you and the lenders? I'm using your own phrase. I'll tell you what you can give. You say this unbelievable: 'We are in favour of private initiative'. And I'm a businessman, Mr. Mitsotakis. I have business of mine. But I can't understand the obsession with the demilitarisations. You're talking about privatizations. You're fans of all the demilitarisations. You say the state cannot be an entrepreneur. I understand that. Gentlemen, we must be ashamed. The German State, the ‘FRAPORT’, the German state company... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Simopoulos, don't do this to me. Isn't it a state? 'COSCO' is not state? The Austrian company that took the trains isn't state? They can with state-owned companies and can't Greeks have state-owned companies, sir? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u57	It's old!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u58	It's not old, it's new, because now you're talking about PPC, you're talking about water, you're talking about electricity. You're talking about all this, giving it all over again. So I'm saying we'll see soon what you'll give to get what you want to get. We will see this soon, and I wish I would be wrong, and I apologise here for what I am about to say today. I'll see you in a bit, Mr. Simopoulos. Let's actually go. No one has spoken here about the operations in Bulgaria. Put your technocrats on. Greek companies in Bulgaria jiraun 6 billion euros. Find a tax way out of there. After you're doing tax relief, do overrun and go to 15% for these companies. Looking for investors from abroad. Well, you have a window to bring back in two to three months the EUR 6 billion of Greeks, who have business there. Find a way, 6 billion is. The Bulgarian Ministry of Economy says that. Mr. Loverdos, 6 billion is the turnover of Greek companies in Bulgaria. Can't we bring them here? Can't we call them "Come" with motive? The businessman is an entrepreneur. I call it a suggestion. Hold that. You said about the ID. Well, don't you Thessalonians hear what Mr. Mitsotakis says? Don't you know there's a problem with where it's going? What are you talking about in here? Where's he going? West? east? North? To the sea? Where's he going? Come on, we'll do the ID. Honestly, I am disturbed by half the truth, because if you announce something like that, you say: IDD will go there and I have a plan to go there, not that IDD will happen. Because if some people think ID can stay downtown, they do. Let's go to the next: no Minister from the First of Thessaloniki. The government has fifty one people, but one from Thessaloniki does not have to put Mr. Mitsotakis in the moment that developments are taking place in relation to the Macedonian. And it's not topical, but it's real. A Thessaloniki, one of the first of Thessaloniki! Don't we have any worthy in New Democracy from the First of Thessaloniki, Mr. Mitsotakis? Not even one? We're going seriously. You said about the hundred and twenty doses. I have heard it positively. I did not like what you said: 'This is the last time the state takes this measure'. Mr. Mitsotakis, I have a better proposal, much better, believe me. Your party has successful technocrats, very successful and I applaud them. They achieved a loan from your party of EUR 4 million in sixty years. Four million euros, 5,500 euros a instalment in sixty years' time the repayment. So put on for those who have house confiscations to have sixty years to pay for their loan. Why is it that only New Democracy can make deals with the banks and get this discharge? What will he say "the last time"? I didn't get it. And you know, when you make the Greek's belief that for your own behavior you're different, then he understands that it's unfair to the state too. You can't take his house when you as a party have made the best possible deal. You can't do that. We must set an example of the fact that we are honest, correct and then ask all others, the Greek citizens who went bankrupt and the change. Because that's what we ask the Greeks, the change. Let's go to the rest. I'm not going to tell you about the popy paste, but try to get Mr. Pollack. That's what he said. I saw your schedule, your regular schedule. It's twenty-five to thirty pages. I blew it. I didn't see anything about herbal medicinal products. I didn't see anything about the shipyard. I have never seen anything to reduce the EMSDDA by using energy criteria. I didn't see anything about all this. Now you've found out. But, unfortunately, all this has been proposed by the Greek Solution. Her programme, two hundred ninety-page pages, I have it here, and I'll submit it to the Minutes in a little while. Everything you said, Mr. Mitsotakis, about medicinal herbs, etc., is in here. It's a symptom. Some of your people read it, liked it and took it, and they did it again copy-paste. It's not bad, it's good. Good for us to take it. Besides, stolen ideas are the best ideas. [[At this point the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos presents for the minutes the above programme, which is located in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We're going for the universities now. I'm in favour, I'm clear. Private universities, why? We didn't discover America or the gunpowder. The Cypriots did so and they increase their Gross National Product every year. If I can increase my GDP by 5%, it means that next year I will have revenue. What's simpler than that? This is business, Mr. Mitsotakis. The state may also be an entrepreneur, Mr Mitsotakis, because here it can. Why not, to say the 'FRAPORT', which is a state-owned company? Why not in the ‘COSCO’ that is a State-owned Chinese company? Why can't he with the trains, which is an Austrian state-owned company? Why does it save and well we have to sell everything out, and for what reason? It's not a bad thing to privatize, but you're lying or saying half of all of you. It's not privatization. It's state-run under another flag, because privatization means leaving the state and going to the private. Here he leaves the state and goes back to the state, but with another flag. I forgot. It's not Greek the flag. He's got a difference. Let's go to Greek-Turkish. In 2007, it is not Mr Bourras, I say this because the Vice-President, Mr Bourras, reacted from below at the time - I was talking about oil. In here, Mr. Mitsotakis, you were all making fun of me. Everybody! You too. Not in the sense of mockery and comfy, but most people didn't believe it. I've been telling you there's oil, there's gas, there's minerals. Do something! Do something! Do something before we go bankrupt. I was the handwriting. Today I'm a descriptor with the situation. You describe it yourself. Today, Greece is in danger of being involved in a war temptation - unfortunately, because no one wants the war - because of these gazes. We were confirmed as Greek Solution. I was yelling! Here, then, a question arises: can we all agree on what our red line is? [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the President of the Greek Solution is ringing at this point.]] It's important, Mr. Mitsotakis. You do it personally. Call all the Chiefs and tell them: "Come here, guys. What's the red line in Greece? Where does Turkey's madness stop? Where does her irrationality stop? Gia? Sounio? Zakynthos? Where will it stop?’ Today he's in Cyprus, tomorrow in Kastelorizo. Where does it stop? It's a question. At some point we must say what the red lines of Greece are, Mr Mitsotakis, we too should know what the Greek people are. It is not possible, in other words, once we say something, to say: 'What do you want? War?’ Good. They're coming to Sounio, they're gonna put the drill in, and I'm gonna say: What do you want, gentlemen? War? Let people do their job. It doesn't make sense. Honestly, that thing doesn't make sense. It's irrational. This culture of fearful syndrome in the Greeks with the constant resilience leads to defeat and the cultivation of defeat leads to mathematics in defeat. It's for granted. Now let's go to Mr. Teddy. What happened today in Bloomberg? Did you read it? I'll read it to you in the Minutes. I read it and I was speechless. New Katrugalos, Mr. Dendias, new Kotzias. I read the statement, which wants interpretation. Let her deny that it is not the case. He said his country, Greece, could cooperate with Turkey to exploit natural resources. Does that mean co-existence? I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I want an answer to your dentistry, or Mr. Dendias will be here to deny her that it is not the case. Does it mean co-existence? Shall we go to co-management? Is that what your government will do? I ask why it's tragic and only we're talking about it. That's criminal. It's a national crime. If it's true - I repeat - I want a denial, we want a denial. Let's go to Thrace. An issue that SYRIZA has done, Mr. Prison knows about. For the first time in time, mufts were elected, Mr. Mitsotakis. They took out the lawmakers to elect mufts on the Turkish-Erdogan's cheque. So I ask you: in no Muslim country is the imams appointed. Nowhere, just here. They did the crime, Mr. Chakaloto, you did it. I don't know if it was wrong. However, it was a crime, because nowhere, even in Turkey, they are not appointed. What will the government do? Is he gonna fix it? He's gonna leave it like this? Don't we see what's going on with the Turkish party, which is illegally working? There is no Turkish party. Yet that's what they say. Don't we see what's going on with the consulate that has to go, Mr. Mitsotakis? It works as a wedge, unfortunately. We don't need a consulate in Komotini. Turkey does not need it. What can we do now? That's how it works. I'm telling you about the mushrooms. What are you gonna do? I want an answer in the second instance, because legal mushrooms have appealed to the Council of State and are waiting for a legal answer and we have illegal mushrooms in Thrace to perpetuate. These are issues which you have not discussed and not even as a simple reference. I'm going to the rest. The election law is linked to Thrace. Mr. Mitsotakis, whatever you bring, you know one thing. We don't care about our personal interests. We don't care if you take it to 1% or 2%, because we're in Parliament. If I see with my eyes a Turkish party within the House, it will never be the Greek Solution. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Put the line, the barrier, because we have to look at Thrace. That means wisdom. It doesn't mean consensus, it means wise nationalism. It's important. Watch out, not games with electoral laws, not just proportional to getting into the House and getting grants. The national is above any other issue. Let's go to the next one. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has put into it. Quiet, ladies and gentlemen! Gentlemen of the New Democracy, Mr. Simopoulos, you bailed out! I'm not addressing you, I'm talking to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u59	Why do you keep Mr. Simopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u60	Simopoulos's a friend, he knows why I'm saying it. Thessalonic gar! I'm addressing the Macedonians for the scavenger! Where are the Macedonians, the Macedonians you told me the Prespecies Agreement was criminal? She was on my radio, "FOCUS", my friend Simopoulos and other MPs, and said "we'll change it, we'll overthrow it". Where are you? Where are you? Where are you from the Macedonians? Now I'll see you! There's a vacancy report for the last treason on Mr. Kotzia. Does anyone know her in here? They're the Pamacedonian Unions. Here it is. You have ten Members of the Greek Solution next to you. I want twenty signatures from you, from the New Democracy, to find out why Macedonia was betrayed and what Kotzias was doing secretly from the Greeks! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Is someone gonna sign? I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I want your signature, at least we need to know, with a preliminary investigation. Mr. Mitsotakis, she's hidden in the drawers of SYRIZA's president. She's got her under there. I hope you guys get her out of here now, let's see what's going on. And I say that because I expect you Macedonians, at least to know why this crime has happened. Of all the Macedonians and the rest of the Greeks. Let's go to the next one, which is very serious. Friends and friends, there is a letter from professors to Mr. Mitsotakis. I got her here. They argue with too many arguments that this agreement is void. I'm filing the letter. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Embassy Agreement is void. When I say void, void! It's really void! It had to be over 31 December and the referendum and everything and it wasn't over. Close the treachery agreement of the Ambassadors. Delete this treacherous agreement, because the bourgeois's bourgeoisie opens. And because some people will say that I may also be a patriot, I will tell them this: Do you know what the Skopje agreement includes, Mr Mitsotakis? Do the Greeks know that? It includes, as an enclosed state, Skopje's ability to leave the city and have a port in the Thermaikos Gulf. The enclosed state - where is Mr. Syrigos? - is entitled under the interim agreement signed by PASOK in the past, which is the continuation of today's Prespecies Agreement, to have a seafarer in the Thermaikos Gulf, Mr Loverdos. It's Article 5, Mr. Loverdos! They're allowed to have an EOZ, Mr. Mitsotakis! Listen a little. It's not bad anyone knows. It's bad to do that he doesn't know what's coming. We'll be here to ring bells, tell you something's wrong. The Embassy's deal opens up empty Haloss. I don't want outside the White Tower, in the six nautical miles, to see a ship of Skopje, the port, the sun of Macedonia on this ship. We don't want it, Mr. Mitsotakis! We don't want it! Cancel the deal at last! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Let's go to the next thing. It's too much time, but the rest of the time is up. I'll take too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Vellopoulou, because we have said to end at 00.00 and followed by Mr. Chief of Mera25, we would appreciate if you would be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, the others have spoken for 35 minutes. Let me talk at least 25 minutes. Mr. Varoufakis is right to wait patiently. But the others talked 35 minutes. Why us? You'll finally tell him to close at fifteen and twenty. We're small, but let us talk. It's not bad. Let's go on a subject no one dared touch in here. Why are you afraid to talk about the Northcontinentals? Why are you afraid to show these images, these images of shame, which when I see them, I am ashamed? Breaking down Greek properties in Himara, the drug dealer Rama, and not talking to the Greek government of SYRIZA, don't say anything! Nothing! I would like you patriots, the neo-democratics and the government of Mr Mitsotakis to intervene in the European Union anywhere. Of course, I would remind him that in 2009, when I was a Member and yelled at Mrs Bakoyannis "Don't connect them to the European Union, they won't give us anything as a counter-duty the Albanians will never do", she laughed and said, "We took the AOZ, which you so much want." Not only did we get EOZ, we get the fortune. They're hitting the Himariots, murdering Katsifa and exiting a SYRIZA MEP and calling him crazy! He went out as a SYRIZA MEP and said he was insane, the penitentiary came to Parliament and made it "gargary" by the MPs. They did not vote in favour of Mr. Philly's immunity. Calling a dead lunatic? And he was crazy too! After all, in 1821 for the status of the rich of that time the rebels were mad. Crazy, crazy! Why are we doing this? I don't understand, Mr. Loverdo, why this is all happening. Why should we be so hypotonic in national matters? For me, Mr Mitsotakis, to close here, the issue of asylum is very important. But why don't you dare talk about selfishness? We were told about the asylum and militia to also be an ethnic militia. Time is squeezing, and I can't analyze it. However, no one is talking here about teachers in universities who have made contractors. Postgraduate and doctoral students use them for work. I'm lying? And there's money for the teachers! Isn't that a messenger or trade within the university? Why don't someone say that with university resources they use their students to do business? Why isn't anyone talking about the partying of universities? 'We're going to do private universities'. I'm in favor, too. Let us solve the public's problem. Stop party orders from the universities. Turn it off! What does the university have to do with the parties? Who gets a batonbrush and paints! We've all been there. One writes P.S.S., the other writes ONNED, whatever anyone wants. Stop this story.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u63	Mr President, we are going to exceed the twenty-fifth minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u64	I close here so we don't exceed time, even though you, Mr. Tasouula, are kind. You're a nice man. It's okay, I'll see you next time. Mr. Mitsotakis, do me a favor. A minute in forty is a little bit. It's okay. But cancel the Embassy Agreement. Make everything cancel. Macedonia will be grateful. I've been telling you this since now and I'm signing it. Your MPs say so too. Many of them are ashamed to say that the agreement will not be cancelled. So that all Greeks are not ashamed of you, then, to cancel the Prespecies Agreement and ask us to see what the red lines are. For all of us is Greece, first the Greeks, first the country, first the nation! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u65	Mr Yiannis Varoufakis, President of the MERA25 Parliamentary Group, is hereby called on to step up the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, ever in the history of the Greek Parliament - perhaps since the period of apostasy - Parliament's authority has not been hurt as much as in the last memorandum years, especially in the last four years. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 218]] [[To enter pages 220-221]] Citizens have been watching a fascism for years. Co-population MPs voted in favour of legislation that you, too, also disagreed with the opposition at the time to vote against bills with which you were deeply in agreement. This is an unprecedented humiliation of the parliamentary process that throws its shadow even in the House today. What are the prospects of this House to heal this wound? Listening to your programme statements, Mr Mitsotakis, it is a pleasant alignment of ideology and announcements. Indeed, the torrent of the announcements, of the bills you prepare, seems to be in line with your beliefs, and I welcome that. However, what is certain is that they are inconsistent with your commitments. I am pleased to hear you announcing the reduction of corporate tax rates and, at the same time, the reduction in tax, particularly of the poorest people. Yes, but before that, you committed yourself to 3.5% primary surplus, and these two fades and contradict. You make promises that require a break with the lenders that at the same time promise you won't do. This is a peculiar and peculiar form of commemorative populism. Prime Minister, who's the number one business destroyer today? I think if we go out and ask businessmen, they will tell us about the 100% advance payment of SYRIZA's tax and for which, unfortunately, I have not heard anything from you today. He is the elephant in Parliament's Chamber, the total lack of reference in this reproach, which puts a louket on business and sends our children abroad. We, as Mera25, will be tabling an amendment to any tax bill, proposing the abolition of 100% of tax advances. It is an amendment that you will reject not because you disagree, but because of your commitment to lenders. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the fourth Memorandum that SYRIZA brought last August will force you every day to dismantle yourself, as it forced the SYRIZA partners to abolish themselves for four years. It will drag you into inefficient, more and more anti-grassy policies. We are still in the vortex of the memorials, we are still in a very unpleasant position, where the implementation of your programme, the implementation of the SYRIZA programme, our programme requires a break with the policies of lenders. The Prime Minister tells us that this is not the case, that he will go to Brussels and reach the creditors with his credibility and that he will achieve a reduction in the primary surplus target. Mr. Mitsotakis, I have news for you: Mr. Tsipras' credibility in the eyes of lenders will never reach it. As much as you try, however catastrophic it may be, the throat of bills in your first hundred days, Ms. Merkel, Mr. Soltz, Mrs. Lagard, Mr. Draghi will remain more impressed than the effectiveness with which the mutated SYRIZA cut off the ESS, produced overcrowds, gave the airports essentially, the trains. At best, for you, consider you a worthy follower of Mr. Tsipras. More reliable than the one ever, the most heated, as the JRC quite rightly says, of the bloody surpluses imposed on Mr. Tsipras will remain and remain due to the German Government's refusal to restructure debt by consensus. These surpluses will remain the guarantor of the reproduction of the debt-purpose, a key reason for leaving other our children abroad in the coming years. Let's see some of your announcements. Take the red loans, for example. What do you suggest? Instead of transferring, as proposed by Mera25, to a public private debt management company, you propose speeding up their sales to the funds, the predator funds, speeding up the evictions and auctions, speeding up the cycle of the victor, where the values of the real estate are reduced by the properties that came out in the auction, increasing the pressure or recapitalisation of the systemic banks by Mr. Tsipras inherited you either for the direct subsidy of the predator funds to pay the banks a higher percentage. You are proposing, in other words, to increase the bankruptcy of both households and the state, with the only winners of the predators and their domestic agents, who, of course, reasonably applaud the New Democracy and your victory. If we look at all the other elements of the puzzle formed - privatizations, labour, insurance, which you have not mentioned, but we know your momentum to privatize - we see a trend not in a liberal direction, but we see a trend towards oligopolistic regulations in favour of certain profitable interests. Can we get the public property? Instead of converting the HIDE and the Supremeity to a public development bank, as proposed by Mera25, which could use the public property not to sell it, but as a guarantee to create investment flows in the private and public sectors - with the shares in this development bank passing, for example, to IKA, in order to compensate for the impairment of PSI capitalisation - you are proposing a further sale in favour of the promotion of specific "private" oligarchs and against society. You spoke about privatization of PPC and you make an unfortunate, I believe, comparison with OTE. It is another telecommunications company and another natural monopoly, such as PPC. In recent years, under pressure from lenders and with the participation in this process of the Tsipras government, PPC has been deprived, due to the merciful privatisation of SYRIZA, due to private-private contracts, which were particularly harmful to PPC, and due to the bleeding of PPC's Tsipras by the government for reasons of repayment of various obligations. More privatisation will be as healing as giving a little more poison to the poisoned. Let us take the issue of minimum wages, labour and business taxation. We in Merra25 would like to hear you - and we would applaud it - about a abolition of the advance payment of corporate tax, a reduction in the rate of taxation for micro-enterprises, I would say 15%, but in no case about oligopolistic chains under 26%, while at the same time a generous increase in minimum wages, such a compensation. We do not see that, however. We read the BSE proposals for even more flexibility in the labour market, a code for greater impoverishment, lower minimum wages. And as if you wanted to confirm that tone you abolished the Labour Inspectorate. You do not seem to understand that on the altar of boosting employment, further impoverishment of private sector workers compresses active demand, turnover and ultimately public revenue. Prime Minister, I wonder if you realize that you are the luckiest Prime Minister of the Memorandum of Greece. I remember the obvious relief in the face of a good colleague, who is not here, Mr Stakoura, when along with Mr Hardouvelis, I was handed over the empty fund, in January 2015, from which I had to pay back in 2015 the extraordinarial sum of 22 billion in the troika and creditors. Contrary to the circumstances in which Mr Samaras took over, contrary to the circumstances under which Prime Minister Papandreou took over, although the country today is more bankrupt than ever, you have undertaken without any anxiety about how you will pay off the creditors over the next ten years. You owe this to Mr. Tsipras, to Mr. Drasakis, to Mr. Tsakalotos, who not only brought the New Democracy back from the bottom of a huge defeat in the referendum of July 2015, asking for your vote so that together you can overturn the "no" of the Greek people, but three years later, last August, the Tsipras government obtained new loans, within the fourth memorandum, from which you will pretend to pay back the lenders by 2021. And most importantly, they received 100 billion repayments, which was to be made between 2021 and 2030, after 2032, and, of course, charged the debt, which, in a language where George Orwell would understand very well, called it "debate of debt". Unfortunately, your personal luck is consistent with the misery of many. Our state is more bankrupt than ever, but at the same time those who buy government bonds earn astronomically for the period of profit. You've seen them. This is not a vote of confidence in either of us. Just, what's going on? How can speculators earn by buying a public debt of a bankrupt country? It's simple. When 85% and over the public debt has passed to the troika and as long as the commemorative bipartisanism is kept, the small percentage of this debt, which the market continues to negotiate, is guaranteed by the troika and is thus caught in a global bond market with negative interest rates. But the same is true of private debt. Any red loan sold on a foreign predator fund by Delaware, from New Jersey - and purchases it with a poor 8% rate on its nominal value - destroys our fellow citizens, further reduces the capitalisation of the banks, throws even greater darkness into the real estate market. The fact that vultures are fat from our society's shell does not mean that our society is resurrecting. This is the first great paradox of today's historical context. So few have never been so rich in time that many are being devastated. The second great paradox concerns the good coexistence in your government of so-called self-democratic and far-right. Once the guru of economic liberalism, the great Friedrich Von Hayek, had said one truth about us leftists, which was hurting. He said - I imagine you remember - that the problem with socialism is that in order for socialists to implement it they must do things that violate the basic principles of socialists. There's something like that you're dealing with today. The implementation of what you call 'liberal policies', but essentially reinforces the oligopolistic forces - which aim to collect revenues - in particular under fourth memorandum conditions require acts by you, which violate the basic principles of liberalism. The repression, the 'law and order', goes hand in hand with the policies that we will hear and see they come to this Chamber in the next few weeks. You have already marked it in a very symbolic way, Mr Mitsotakis, choosing as the Minister of Civil Protection former Minister, who should not be ministred, but should account for the greatest violation of human rights in the European Union when 2012 as the Minister of PASOK prosecuted and spread positive women. All I'm wondering is why you separated him from his sixth half, Mr. Loverdos. It's too bad, isn't it? Ladies and gentlemen, on 7 July it closed a chapter of the Memorandum of Greece and opened another. Wherever we look, we see this continuity between previous governance and today. In 2015 with the Special Secretary of the IAEA, Panagiotis Danos, we restored the IAEA to the task of market control - which is prerequisite for healthy competition - and started algorithmic controls on tax evasion with them. After July the Troika imposed and the SYRIZA Government accepted the absorption of the IAS to the Public Income Authority, which is under the direct control of the Troika, the most loyal friend of the domestic geniuses. With that one-handed SYRIZA government state lost many billions of evasive revenues. Now, just you, New Democracy, are coming to sign the ILO death order act. And the MPs of SYRIZA, whose ears in the summer of 2015 did not sweat for the complaints of Panagiotis Danos about the abolition of the substance of the IMO, are today extinguished. We see the same thing in immigration. In the name of the Left, SYRIZA's government has made it possible for Moria's college, allowing a new right-wing government to adopt Salvini's tactics, strategy and ideology more easily. It delivers the Ministry of Migration Policy to the Ministry of Citizen Protection, abolishes the performance of AMKA and hence access to health structures in refugees, cultivates an even more hostile climate towards the foreigner. Unless, of course, the stranger has 250 grand, and so we give him a Golden Visa, so that from Berlin or Paris he can reap the incomes from two to three apartments that he will have and rent through Airbnb in Koukaki or Chania or on some island. We see the same in Macedonian. I don't want to repeat things people have said. On the contrary, with Mera25, Prime Minister, we had the courage to collect the political cost, in support of the Prespecies Agreement, you are cheating on your voters, cynically embraced by the Prespecies Agreement after removal from the polls. Finally - and this is very important - we see the same thing on the major issue of energy and foreign policy. The unexpected extreme atlanticism of the previous government causes you trouble, as it is impossible for you to compete with them, to catch up with them. They tied the country to the tank of multinational oil and to the vision of a Greece that will pass through natural gas pipelines in northern Greece, with the Epirus carved with fracking, with its subsoil destroyed, in order to enrich some of the few oligarchs, a Greece that embraces with Mr Netanyahu and the American multinationals will reap the Eastern Mediterranean, giving an excellent opportunity to Turkish expansion to trigger tensions in the Aegean. That's how I come to the third great paradox of our time. You are presenting yourself as Europeans, and yet you are already attached to the chariot led by Mr Netanyahu, the largest supporter of Mr Netanyahu, Mr Trump, and of course now Mr Salvini, whose tax and xenophobic agenda you reproduce. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, do you realize that these gentlemen are Europe's greatest enemies, are the forces working for a broken, divided, reactionary Europe? You are government days, but you have already made it possible to show yourself ready, moving from an anguish to satisfy the mighty. I have heard you say that Brussels, the European Union, must not be renegotiated with the new British Prime Minister, the Brexit Agreement. Did you think so well before you did, when you were supposed to ask to renegotiate the bloody surpluses with the same European Union? Did you think well, Prime Minister, the choice of our next Commissioner in the European Union, in the Commission? You have chosen a gentleman whose only feat was to merge, as a representative of the Commission, the propaganda with whom the troika has been soundly investing its destructive work in this country for years, indirectly, leading to the degradation that we see throughout the European Union. I cannot believe that of all the politicians and technocrats of the New Democracy this particular gentleman was the best you could choose. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2019, regardless of our party confrontations and conflicts, for reasons relating to Europe's overall economy and, in general, it will be a year of further deterioration of the endless crisis in the Eurozone. Greece will continue to suffocate in a degraded Europe. And the more people like ours are suffocating, the more Europe will be degraded. In this setting the lenders, the troika, will not even give you the minimum of what is required so that the implementation of your programme will be successful, without deepening the bankruptcy of a state, banks, people and businesses. Know that lenders are not even interested in getting their money back. They're interested. As long as Berlin and Paris are involved in a titanic conflict that cancels the least reforms of the Eurozone, which may have made it a bit sustainable, all that matters to lenders is that Greece does not bother them, that Greece should retire to its corner to be late without voices and troubles, with our children voting on their feet, migrating. Well, no. Ladies and gentlemen, we at Mera25 will not do them the favor. Our priority, day after night, inside and outside the House, is to demonstrate both the toxicity and the classivity of the unsustainable debt that operates as a means of submission. Our priority is to remind ourselves that, while until last year, with the exception of a few oligarchs, all the social classes in Greece were losing out of the crisis, others more and less, since the fourth Memorandum, last August, new speculative opportunities were created for a parasite class, which now supports the new government and which is rich, while the people are getting deeper and deeper into bankruptcy and intolerability. As the only single pan-European party in this Parliament, Mera25 reserves the right to return again and again to the obligation of all genuine Europeans to end irresponsible obedience, yes to everything, which kills the hope of a common European prosperity and thus strengthens Euro-scepticism throughout Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, how our country will escape from debt prison is the first major priority of Mera25. But there is also a second basic priority: the depreciation of climate disaster that is consistent - fortunately! - with the effective development model of the future. We no longer have a choice between an ecological policy and an economic rationale option. Fortunately, technology has evolved enough to allow us a new development model, which is consistent with the fight against this great threat to our children. Therefore, Merra25 proposes that this House immediately declare as its main priority the transition until 2030 to an economy of zero dependence on fossil fuels, cancellation of mining in Greece and the Eastern Mediterranean. Instead of mining and pipelines, instead of a privatised PPC, an investment programme in universal electricity, not only in the islands, but also in a decentralised, public, but not a public, Community system of production and distribution of renewable electricity. Ladies and gentlemen, the lost honour of our Parliament will not be restored by those who tremble the rupture with the lenders, EXXON MOBIL or Mr Trump. We don't want a break, but we're not afraid of a break. Because the well-being of the many wants virtue and courage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, before I declare the sitting closed, let me inform the House of a number of issues which have come to the Bureau and which concern colleagues. Mr Vassiliou Yoyakas seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from 1 August 2019 until 5 August 2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u68	The House approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Varoufakis, President of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group, has submitted the following letter to me: "Today, pursuant to Rule 17(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, as alternates - representatives of the MERA25 Parliamentary Group, Members B1 of North Athens Mr. Klonas Gregoriadis and I of Athens Mr. Angeliki Hadamopoulou are appointed. In addition, as Secretary of the Parliamentary Group, Members of Parliament are appointed Mr Fotini Bakadam.’. The abovementioned letter is entered in the Minutes and read as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u69	Also, Ms Alexopoulou Christina, a Member of Parliament, presented a statement to the Bureau of Parliament, stating unreservedly that she chose the post as a Member of Parliament as a member of the Achaias vis-à-vis any other incompatible status or work. The statement referred to above shall be entered in the Minutes and shall be as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-20-S1-commons.u71	The sitting is closed for Sunday 21 July 2019 at 10 a.m., on the subject of the House's work: continuation of the debate on the government's Schedule Declarations, according to the agenda.
