ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's approval of 15 May 2019, the PKE's minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau of the PKE's PKE's minutes of Wednesday 15 May 2019, with regard to the vote on all draft laws: (a) ‘Repeal of the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Northern Macedonia on the establishment of a border crossing point in the region of Lake Prespa and other provisions’, (b) ‘Principle of the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Northern Macedonia on the establishment of a new border crossing point between the two countries, which will link the Protestants, the Hellenic Republic and the Majden (Majden) in the Republic of Northern Macedonia’, as well as the proposal of the President of the Parliament: ‘To amend the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Party’s Rules of Procedure (VEC 106 A-24-26-87), as applicable’.]] Please beg the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before entering the debate of the topical and urgent questions scheduled for today, I have the honour to announce to the House the Topical Questions Card of Friday 17 May 2019 and Friday 10 May 2019. Oh, I'm sorry. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 520/14-5-2019 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Protection of citizens and borrowers from the abuse of legal offices as tax collectors". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 515/14-5-2019 by Mr Athanasios Bourras, Member of the Republic of Attica, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Vreating a Municipal Unit of Megaron". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 521/14-5-2019 by MP Chania of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Antonios Balomenakis to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "The need to regulate franchising." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 516/14-5-2019 by Mr Georgios Vlachos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on "Building a concrete plan and timetable to address the problems of the East Attica affected by the fire of 23 and 24 July". "B" A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 498/2-5-2019 by MP Achaias of Democratic Incorporation Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "New outstandings and unanswered questions about the Greek School of Munich". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 501/3-5-2019 by the Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese Republican Association Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Economy and Development on the subject: "Talk on account of works at Rhodes airport". Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now read the topical and urgent questions which will not be discussed in today's sitting. The second first question under number 510/9-5-2019 (A) by MP II of the Democratic Comparison Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The extension of Line 2 of the metro to Illion will cease?", will not be discussed due to the obstruction of Minister Christos Spirtzis, due to an official trip to Thessaloniki. The second question under number 517/14-5-2019 of the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Independence Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "No progress at the twelfth Elementary Municipal School of Archange Rhodes" will be discussed due to the obstruction of Minister Christos Spirtzis, due to an official trip to Thessaloniki. The second question under number 505/6-2019, first cycle (B) by MP II of the Democratic Incorporation, Mr. Andreas Loverdos, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The opening of nine licensed RTF professionals based in the former Municipality of Henry Achaias and the inhabitants of the region", will not be discussed due to the obstruction of Minister Christos Spirtzis, due to an official trip to Thessaloniki. The third, with number 519/14-5-2019, topical question (A) by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Working through a programme of OAED for the long-term unemployed of fifty-five to sixty-seven years at the University Hospital of Ioannina", will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr. Konstantinos Barkas, due to a workload. The third, with number 518/14-5-2019, top-circuit question (A) by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece.Giannis Delis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Problems of workers at the Centre for the Welfare of Central Macedonia", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr.Theanos Fotou, due to a workload. The third under number 502-3-5-2019 topical question by MP for the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "The co-management of the Aegean is being promoted by the Government", will not be discussed. The relevant letter of the Secretary-General of the Government is also available for the cancelled. So we start with the four topical questions that will be discussed. All will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Vasilis Kokkalis. The three are from colleagues of the New Democracy, Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios, MP of the Kilkis Prefecture, MP of the Evros Prefecture, and Dimitrios Kyriazides, MP Dramas. We begin with the first under No 513/14-5-2019 topical question (A) by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgiou Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Exemption of bio-growers in the Kilkis Prefecture'. Here, Mr Georgioda, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, to justify the title of my topical question, I am telling you a number: six hundred old farmers had applied for their inclusion in the new programme and the 30 applications were approved. Six hundred thirty, thirty! I'm saying that to understand what's happening right now in Kilkis. Minister, in a rural environment programme in which the feasibility is double, on the one hand, we have an environmental improvement and on the other, on the other, support for farmers who wish to deal with bio-growing, your Government has failed completely. Unfortunately, while objections were raised how the criteria for this new programme have been laid down, they have not been heard and we have had this result, a characteristic case of which Kilkis is. We do not have the large areas, which should have been an objective, because of the environmental direction of the measure, nor do we have a large number of farmers. Why did that happen? Because for the first time you have done this: we have had a very wide divergence in aid prices. Some crops are supported with 60 euros per acre, some with 10 euros. At the same time, we did not have a compulsory quota for growers, for each farmer, so that a farmer can apply only for one crop, and of course we have the choice of cultivation with the greatest aid, which has the effect of a few people, a few people having the profit from this measure. I will say attributes that, for the five years in the old farmers, there is provision in central Macedonia for an increase in the amount of EUR 12 million which, Minister, will be allocated to about a hundred people. EUR 12 million will be allocated to a hundred people! If this is not a failure of the measure, then what is it? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more minute, Mr President. We also had a privileged treatment of the areas within "NATURA" or close to "NATURA", which had the right of anyone who has a crop in this area to integrate their other crops and the result is, at the moment, that we have a dramatic exclusion of people who invested ten and twelve years on bio-farming with fields that are currently unable to respond to conventional crops. Please, Minister, I would like a first place of yours, so that we can see how this is to be resolved. I must say, of course, that all these are errors in the prior political leadership of the Ministry, but it is your responsibility to restore it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u4	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, indeed organic farming is one of the most important measures in the Rural Development Programme that you mention with your timely question. From the figures which I will give you, we have exhausted and exhausted all margins so that they can benefit as many producers as possible and as many farmers as possible and especially the old ones. A total of EUR 223 million was allocated under the first invitation and with the second invitation EUR 120 million. In the second invitation, central Macedonia had 10 395 000 euros for the old farmers, for whom you submitted a topical question. As far as criteria are concerned, the criteria really favour the exercise of organic farming, without, of course, implying that there are also injustices, as you said, or the younger age. They also favour farms in mountain and disadvantaged areas, but without favouring large farms, as more than 60 acres all farms receive the same molecules in this criterion. Moreover, they favour professional farmers and even organised farmers, those who are in cooperatives. Let us say that the Region of Central Macedonia has received 20% in general, of all resources for this measure. We have more EUR 80 million committed, which will be channelled into regions like yours, as is the East Macedonia-Thracy region. It precedes the Region of Eastern Macedonia - Thrace and immediately thereafter the Region of Central Macedonia or the Region of Western Macedonia, in which we have such injustices, especially for old farmers. The announcement will take place next week, 21 to 22 May. We have a specific target in the regions - such as yours - and in the prefectures, in order to eliminate these injustices.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Georgiod, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u7	Minister, it is a pleasure to recognise that the programme has indeed created injustices. Unfortunately, these injustices must be restored as much as possible if they are 100%. That is not possible with the communication you are making, but I would like to say this: it must indeed be targeted at regions such as the Region of Central Macedonia, which is participating in the country's agricultural GDP with the highest proportion, that there is that direction of money that restores this injustice as much as possible. I repeat, we have noted it, but it has not been done before. The criteria were wrong from the outset and it was certain that we would be leading to this failure, which has nothing to do with the fact that some farmers, who have cleaned their fields for ten, twelve years, are now being called upon to make contractual crops again, as it has nothing to do with the impact on the environment alone. It is about the fact that, in order to restore the fields and bring them into such a situation that they can cultivate conventional crops, they have to use a large amount of fertiliser for two to three years, from what you understand. It is really unfair for both our environment and for them to be forced to spend such an expense, which of course does not serve anyone. I would therefore ask you, in any way and methodology that evaluates your Ministry, to make this targeted restoration to central Macedonia and Kilkis. In Kilkis, in particular, we have large productions of agricultural wheat, which is the least subsidised in the end, they have opened up markets, they have become partnerships, they have become contracts. These two years of delay, which does not go any further, some continue and produce organic crops, continue without subsidies, without aid and sell their products, and a market which is really very important for Kilkis, which does not have dynamic crops. The mistakes made are errors due to the idea of a particular State Secretary. These mistakes at the moment have made all people very difficult in central Macedonia, but also in other parts of the country. I would ask you really to try to achieve the objective of this measure, which is a lot of participants and large areas. We cannot only have 5% success in an area like central Macedonia. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, as I mentioned, we are making the maximum use of the possibilities of the Rural Development Programme. For this reason, only two calls have been issued for the measure of organic farming. Someone who doesn't work may not make mistakes. There are probably some injustices in some regions. That is why we have now come with the 80 million that we have been overcommitted and targeted will go to the regions, with priority for the old farmers and for the regions with low integration rates. In other words, where there were many applications with few beneficiaries. I repeat, we are making the most of this. Only from the figures and from the money paid from the first invitation shows that we are making maximum use of the possibilities of the Rural Development Programme. The announcements won't take place after months. It will take place next week, Mr Papoutsis, when it comes to supporting the regions, I repeat with great priority where we have had low rates of integration, many applications and few beneficiaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u10	Now the questions of the Misters of the Republic and Kyriazides will be discussed together, namely, the first with number 514/14-5-2019, the second time question (A) by MP Evros of the New Republic, Mr Anastasios Purchas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: “Waterlo” with Measure 11 on organic crops! In eastern Macedonia and Thrace only one hundred nineteen applications were approved! , and the first question under number 6077/27-2-2019 (A) by MP Drama of the New Democracy, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject of: 'Annulled and neglected the Region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace in the appropriations for organic farming'. Here you go, Mr. Publics. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, Mr President, the government's organic farming in terms of programming is a real vatero. You have decided to allocate EUR 120 million to the thirteen regions, of which EUR 5.9 million to the East Macedonia and Thrace region. This corresponds to 4.9% of the total appropriations. You have offended a region with 11.5% of the agricultural land on our territory. You also excluded, without cause of our cotton crop, pomegranate, nutmeg, ray, sunflower, apple trees and aromatic medicinal plants. As you know, all this is being developed in the region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace and especially in Evros. Of course, you did not forget the citrus, vines, olives, refreshed plants. Is it random? But I would also like a justification, Mr Secretary, on this matter. I pointed it out to you in the written question I tabled on 27 February, which my colleagues, Mr Dimitris Kyriazides from Dramas and Mr Nikos Panagiotopoulos from Kavala, signed. Of course, as the Minister has always not responded, your government once again despised parliamentary control by the Minister for Rural Development. Mr. Undersecretary, thirty-seven thousand eight hundred twenty-six applications were lodged throughout the country. You approved three thousand six hundred seventy seven of them. In other words, the percentage is 9.5% in Greece. Four thousand seven hundred seventy-five applications were lodged in eastern Macedonia and Thrace. You have approved, Mr President, the nineteenths in both actions. In other words, a total of 2.5%, while in the rest of the country 9.5%. Also, there were a thousand five hundred applications submitted to Evros and you approved the twenty. I mean, close to 1%. All over the country, 9.5%, Evros 1%. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Do you want to hear how many did you approve in northern Evros, whose plain is a source of wealth in our country? None. Mr. Undersecretary, none! Unless on your map it seems the northern Evros is not on Greek territory. I declare that after Larissa's plain the most cultivated and productive area is the plain of Evros, which you know well, because you come from Larissa. I put two tables in the Minutes of the House not to be studied, but to be read. A person understands the extent of injustice. Unequal everywhere. That is why I strongly protest here in plenary against the State Secretary and against the Bureau of the Greek Parliament. You said you would increase the initial figure because you now understood and remembered that you have elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Prison, I can't leave you any more. Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u13	Yes, Mr. President. I'm hanging up. Also, can you explain why the Ministry has failed miserably on a major issue, which lays the foundations for the next five years on organic farming? Whatever you decide, this will also be applied by the next New Democracy government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, twenty-one students and students and an attendant of the 4th Primary School of Alimos. The House welcomes you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Kyriazidis, you have the floor to develop your question, with a tolerance for you too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. I sincerely did not expect that today there will be an answer to a huge problem that tortures Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, and in particular my prefecture, which is mostly agricultural. Apparently, he wanted us to be told by the present Minister. Before I begin to raise the question, I would like, Mr President, to address you, to the current Minister and to the member of the government, to make an appeal to ensure a smooth electoral period, because we see that things are not progressing smoothly. I would also call for a smooth electoral procedure at every level, Minister. Five months have passed, Minister, so that I can have an answer. Initially it was written. Today you come here, I'd say, surprisingly. Obviously you wanted to announce these additional 80 million added to an issue concerning the country's organic crops. For all of Greece 120 million under Programme 11.1. I'll say then for 11.2. Distribute about 6 million, 4.9% of the credit available in eastern Macedonia and Thrace. On the other hand, we see in other regions of the country that the amounts allocated are twice or three times twice. We can't explain why this is happening. We do see that in Central Greece, obviously Mr. Apostolos studied the programme in order to ensure its region, as in the Peloponnese. I am not against the growers there, but we see this injustice and the dimension of the issue. Minister, there were two calls from Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, the region I mean, on the regional side. Genaris appealed to you for this inappropriate distribution, for the unfair and without any consultation and despite the pleas, the warnings, you proceeded to this unfair distribution. You did the same in April, in which you received a new document in order at last to understand this injustice. You have of course confessed that there have been injustices, but that cannot be continued, Minister. In any case, I believe in the other programming that there should be a better distribution, a better distribution, depending on the acres, and what is being cultivated, so that this injustice and an incorrect distribution by the Ministry of Rural Development, which you are currently in charge of, does not continue. I would like to point out that the electoral division you are doing, at least, has this element of proper distribution, so that at a point in time it can correct the injustices that have been committed on your part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Red, you will have the tolerance to answer both colleagues. If there is something specializing in every county, you should make a denomination, because the local media should know which of you is concerned with, where there is a differentiation. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, because the question was a common one and it was a region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, I shall refer to the region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace for the measure of organic farming. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, you are indeed transferring the concerns of the farmers. However, to someone who is now following from your philosophy the impression of injustice in the allocation of resources to organic farming has been left to you. I have heard from Mr Prossaki, but also from you, Mr Kyriazides, that the region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace was wronged, with the sum of EUR 5.900,000. Right? That's what I heard. Ladies and gentlemen, organic farming has had two invitations. That's the second one. The first invitation was allocated to your region, which you represent in different counties, EUR 79.5 million, which accounts for 30% of the allocated resources. The highest percentage throughout the country. In the second call, nearly 6 million. So there's a conclusion to it. We cannot say that the region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace was wronged. Perhaps you should not say that our region was wronged, but that the criteria were different and few joined, but not that it was wronged.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u18	I'll see you around.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u19	The evidence speaks for itself. In the first 79 million and almost 6 million in the second, 30%. The biggest in the whole country. He said that of the four thousand seven hundred seven hundred seventy five, nineteen joined. In the second invitation, Your Honour. Nearly half have joined the region, that is, the eight thousand two hundred fifty-one applicant in the first, the three thousand four hundred eighty, almost half in the first invitation, have joined. In the second, we have a low level of integration. That is why I mentioned before and Mr Georgioda, while they are from another region, that these 80 million will come with priority in the regions where there was a low rate of integration, few beneficiaries, too many applications. We must therefore make things clear. The region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace has not been blamed at all, which is what the figures themselves say. First and second invitations are first in the distribution. Let's get this straight. Secondly, the 80 million will go targeted, I repeat, to the regions, such as yours, to which we have had a low rate of integration, according to the second invitation, I repeat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u20	We start in the same order, in other words, Mr. Treasury. Here you go, Mr. Publics. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u21	Minister, in Velvet Kozani, shortly before Easter, the Minister, accompanying the Prime Minister of the country in this region, proved to be galantomous and money-switched, doubled the budget for organic crops for western Macedonia. In other words, western Macedonia took an additional EUR 15.7 million, Eastern Macedonia and Thrace still took EUR 5.9 million. It is doubled, according to your oral commitment. And it seems now that you have told us that you have a sum of 80 million, which you will allocate. I hope in the second division that you are perfectly accurate, that you are fair, and I do not want you to be galantic to us. As far as what you said in the first stage and in the second stage are concerned, these are your messages. Because the first stage concerns the first action of those who had been approved in recent years. Do not put unparalleled things in the same basket. The second phase concerns the amounts for which we are discussing, the percentages that I mentioned to you. So do not mislead the House, do not mislead the people, do not mislead your colleagues. I would like to tell you that according to the Greek Statistical Authority, the Region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace has fifty-one thousand, nine hundred two farms, namely 7.25% of the country. We have regions, such as the one in western Macedonia, which I said before, of the northern Aegean, with 3,31% the first and 4,21% the second with regard to agricultural holdings. The two sums you have decided on for the second phase, for the second action, are multiples of what you have for Eastern Macedonia and Thrace. Also here is the document of the Region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, which was submitted to you on Tuesday, January 3, 2019, the district manager with his partners. With soul pain, the evidence is made public, and you do not take into account it. I give it to you for the Minutes of the House. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Anastassios (Tsos) and Mr Anastassios (Tsos) presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So, Mr. Undersecretary, you're targeting Evros, targeting Eastern Macedonian Thrace, because I told you you're not fair. Furthermore, since we are talking about Evros and Thrace, by the way, Mr President, I would like to refer to two issues which are very hot and which concern us. In this Chamber, a month ago I told the State Secretary that he should take into account cotton growers who have a zero to zero yield on cotton because all our land has been destroyed. I'm afraid you didn't hear me. It is thirty the tragic figures of this disaster. Will you include them, even now in the election? Because you've taken the collar, as we say in our villages. Secondly, our cereals have been destroyed. They've been destroyed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Treasury, this is another question now that you're asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u23	By the way, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u24	There's no way, by the way, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u25	Wait a minute. We've got a loss of income. You only rely on European credits. As far as the related aid is concerned - we are talking about cotton - what are you going to do about the loss of income in terms of cereals and cotton where, as we know, we have a disaster? I want you to understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Prison, I can't leave you any more. Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u27	Our issues must also be seen from a national perspective and a viewpoint. This must be the government of the country, so it must see Evros, Eastern Macedonia and Thrace and the islands of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u29	Thank you. Minister, you have challenged us, and I must refer to them. You have delayed the absorption of funds and the 2014-2020 programme you have been late to implement it, and you have forced the implementation of the previous programme - which was set up and sent, to our satisfaction, to the new programme, thus losing the farmers about 2.5 billion, on your own responsibility. Those which should be implemented by 2014 you have had to carry them out now. That is why my colleague referred to the previous programme. You have carried the approved ones for this period, so that they are indeed delayed in satisfying the growers. This is a tough reality, because for old growers from the thousand four hundred and fifty-three applications you approved only nineteen of them, three and a half thousand applications, you approved only a hundred. This is the harsh reality of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace. I will also tell you how the table is distributed throughout the country, what you have acknowledged, that there have been injustices. We then expect this restoration to be done. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitris Kyriazides, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But the same thing, Mr Minister, also happened with measure 11.2 and with regard to livestock farming. You joined the country, only two of these regions, and you have only once again excluded Eastern Macedonia and Thrace. You know, my county lives from farmland and stockfarming by 80%. In other words, you have deprived of these crops, both agricultural and livestock, the possibility of survival. My compatriots programmed, contacted and agreeed with certified companies and organisations in order to plan their crops. And you have now disarmed them because they do not know what is to come and are exposed to each side. You come from an exceptional rural area. You understand the farmer and the farmer. Of course it's too late, you understand that too. You will understand that and you will get the "thank you" for 80 million on the 26th, Minister. Unfortunately, you have abandoned and forgotten about this world, which is the primary production of our country, which we so much need.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u30	Minister, you have the floor for five minutes and if it takes a little longer because you respond to two.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. I shall start my dentology with a rhetorical question, one observation. We recognized and recognize that some mistakes and some injustices in the biological program...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u32	I wish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u33	Some injustices. Have you understood the problem? Are you aware of this? It is not a technical project to say: 'The first phase, the second phase, the second phase, the second stage'. Do you realize what you're asking? First, it's not 2014. It is in 2017 the first invitation and the second invitation... To explain, the problem, if you don't understand it, is that in the first invitation, which was in 2017, we had half the absorption, they're called numbers. But second, we didn't...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u34	You're late, Minister, to give the funds for her first period by 2014...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u35	Please, I haven't interrupted you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u36	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u37	From the figures I quoted, it appears that the Region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace has taken most of the money, but in the second invitation we had little absorption. There you had to focus, focus your arrows and say: "Mr. Minister, because while we had received in the first invitation of 2017 most of the money, in the second was only 119?", with your question. That's why I'm asking, do you understand the problem? We said, in the second invitation, we had few beneficiaries, which is why the EUR 80 million will go targeted at regions that we had few beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u38	What percentage, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u39	They'll be announcing next week. You'll allow me. Secondly, because Mr Poutsis referred to it, I can reply, Mr President, to anything that has to do with agricultural production and not just with agricultural production. By decision of my own, Mr. Prussakis, I reduced the cap on the associated cotton for Evros by 95%. Is that so? Thirty producers have left. We'll consider it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u40	You'll solve it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u41	On the other hand, you say to us 'Now that you have taken the collar', that is, on the one hand you say 'Help them', on the other hand, that it is an election. Pick. You want to help? If you want to help the cotton producers, do not at the same time denounce us that it is an election service. Coming up. But cotton producers, and all the other farmers, know who voted at EUR 7,500. Who voted? That government voted. Mr. Prosecutor and Mr. Kyriazides, you raise matters, and you are doing well, but this government voted against the inconsistent at 7,500 euros, when your Chief of this here at Step in February 2017 urged the OGA to offset the debts with farmers. Is that the primary sector policy for the weak? So, on the one hand, you can't say now that you've taken the neck, help them with a de minimis and, on the other, say that we're electorally doing so. Pick what you want, what a party's responsible attitude is. First of all, that. Secondly, I have shown you that your region has received the largest amounts, but in the second invitation - which you had to identify and show this injustice, so I asked if you really know the problem - in the second invitation, indeed, we were a little involved. And you had to ask: 'Why, Minister, while in the first invitation almost half of them entered, in the second we had this low absorption'? I would like to reply to you: because of criteria, there will be targeted support in the region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u42	Thank you. Now let's move on to the last question to Mr. Red. It will therefore be discussed the first under number 503/6-2019 in the first cycle (B) question by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Tsironis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject of "Biological Markets". Mr. Chironi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Before I start my question, because I consider it a little personal, I would like to remind you, because it was me who handled it, and I mentioned indirectly, that the Organic Agriculture Programme 2014-2020 was designed in 2013 and approved by the European Commission in the summer of 2014 when we were not government. If, therefore, the Vice-Population MPs have as much sensitivity and attention as they are in the opposition, and when they are in the government they are totally uninterested in planning, they will do well to sit in the opposition for many years, because that is where I see them more careful. So I move on to my question. With Law 4492/17, Minister, we have finally introduced the markets for growers. I know that it is necessary for there to be markets for bio-growers, because for the consumer there is absolutely no confidence in the bio-growers' benches being operated alongside the traditional products benches, because it is obvious that they easily assume that goods can be transported and sold contractually instead of organic. That is why it must be separate markets, and the only way, because it is bulky for the product, to trust the consumer that it is not smuggling is for the markets to function completely independently. For years they have operated illegally and we have finally introduced them. There was a ministerial decision going ahead, perhaps some amendment. This should have happened already in the summer of 2018, but it was a long burden - I admit - of the department, because it was taking off the second programme. However, it has been eight months since then and we still do not have the ministerial decision to implement the law. So I ask you, and answer me with a timetable: when will we finally have the completion of the institution, the ministerial decision and any amendment, so that the organic markets will finally function? It's a simple question, I just want the timeline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u44	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor. The point please, because the question is specific.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u45	It is specific and, in any case, Mr Tsironis has dealt with it very warmly, not only with organic farming. Appointment of Law 4492/17 was made, in fact, by the Ministerial Decision, but some ambiguities were identified by the Minister's legal advisers, which is why the drafting of an amendment was promoted. The amendment, Mr Tsironi, has been sent to the Directorate for Organic Agriculture and to the Legislative Initiative Directorate for their legislative and substantive observations following the incorporation of the observations of the Co-authored Ministry of the Interior and before being sent to the General Secretariat of the Government, should also be introduced for consideration to the Standing Committee on Responsibilities of Local Government. I repeat: the amendment has been drawn up, it has been promoted at the Legislative Initiative Directorate. You know the procedures. We hope that the procedures will be over and incorporated into the Ministry of Rural Development's bill, which will be voted on at the beginning of June, within ten days.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u46	Good. You gave a concrete answer. Of course, since Mr Chironis will take the floor, I would like to ask the following question. Has there been consultation - I am now a little bit of the devil's lawyer as an old mayor - with the municipalities if they have space to make separate biological markets and what days, so that we do not have a civil war - I am in favour of your question - between the classical people's markets and the biological ones? Do you have a picture, Mr. Cironi? Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. I also answer to you that the municipalities have never had a problem and there has been extensive consultation long before the law - and even the law has been late in 2017. This consultation has taken place for over a year since 2016 for the institutional framework. It's typically the loose ends that the Minister mentioned and I know them. However, I must point out and, indeed, stress that biological markets generally operate on the eve of the normal people, so that what consumers buy on the organic market does not have to buy the next day in the conventional market. However, I would like to point out that these years, all the investigations mentioned by the Minister, do not cover the farmers who feel they are being mocked. We know very well, Minister, that there is a great deal of impediment to the services, because there was a pressure that never works on organic products and, in general, there is a political pressure that the producer-consumer relationship will not operate. These are the well-known interests which move in the area of the people's markets, which do not want the measure to be adopted, and which is why it is still pending, and that is why there is a blockade. The remarks you have made are well known. However, the time has come, since the summer when we should have the ministerial decision to come to the next summer, to make an amendment and a ministerial decision, I think they are not covered. I keep your commitment and it covers me that at least early June we will finally have the institutional framework completed, that people will function legally, because otherwise you understand that people feel that they are being mocked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u48	Thank you. Here, Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. In answer to the targeted question with a targeted answer, I set you the timetable in my prototype. But I should also like to reply to the President's question that this amendment is ready - and it is available to you - for consideration to be introduced to the Standing Committee on Responsibilities for Local Authorities. We hope and hope that early June will be incorporated into the Ministry of Rural Development's bill or into another bill. Just because the question was targeted, Mr Chironi, I think the answer is specific and targeted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u50	I have not heard an answer from the municipalities in my thoughts, because here we are talking about a separate market, as Mr Tsironis said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u51	Another day.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u52	Another day exactly. Take note of this, do not get involved in another kind of civil war. Mr. Army, because Mr. Xydakis has been a little late, because he happened to be in front of the WTO, but he is now entering the House, you will be kind enough to make a temporary interruption so that we don't cancel the question, because you too have come - and I have to say it - and Mr. Xydakis has not been responsible for the delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u53	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u54	We are therefore interrupting for five minutes for Mr Xydakis to come, to complete parliamentary control and then move on to legislative work.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u55	We continue with the last timely question that will be discussed today, which is the first under No 504/6-5-2019 topical question by MP B' of the Radical Left Coalition to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: 'Acropolis Museum Organization'. The Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport will answer Mr. Konstantinos Army. Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the understanding and general arrangement of the meeting. It is well known to those who have been involved in public administration by positions of responsibility and political heads of ministries, that we have many supervised government bodies, such as legal entities governed by public law, public limited companies, which have been operating for many years under the founding law, but without having internal regulations, organisational charts, what is called a summary body. This causes serious malfunctions. It creates room for manoeuvre in the placement of staff, since the organic positions and the record are not clearly described and creates many difficulties in financial management. One example is the emblematic for the Greek state, the Acropolis Museum, for which, with a lot of trouble, a lot of money, great ambitions and glowing in its operation, since 2009, which was launched until now, ten years, we have an observation. He doesn't have an organism. It does not apply to the organism. In 2013, after several years, four years...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u57	Does it not have an organisation or does it not apply?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u58	Not applicable.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u59	But he has an organization.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u60	In 2013, he obtained a presidential decree. We therefore have a first point that four years, from 2009 to 2013, had no organisation. It's very difficult. In March 2013, it acquires an organisation and now, May 2019, six years later, it has not been implemented. The organization, especially the Acropolis Museum, is extremely large, detailed and heavi, is highly ambitious. It has a Director-General's post, five addresses and dozens of funds and self-sufficient addresses. The most important thing is that this large organisation, with millions of visitors and great international glow, is run by a board of directors, which has no power to do this. So I ask the Minister present: what is going to happen? Will dozens of organisations only operate in the Ministry of Culture and other hundreds of organisations in other Ministries and the Acropolis Museum, without the Director-General, without five directors, financial services, promotion, management and exploitation? How does it work? Is it working with the wisdom of the President of Mr Pantermalis, whose term of office was extended and to be extended we had to change the museum's founding law? I don't doubt Mr. Pantemali's value and love for the museum, but he's the president. He is neither the Director-General nor the Head of Account, nor the Head of Tickets and public reception. I believe that it is a black point for the Greek administration, a black point that shows the inertia and frugality of political leadership for many years, not only of the present government, but also of all the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Army, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u62	The question of the honourable Member, Nikos Xydakis, is correct. It gives us the opportunity to make a broader reference to the issue of the Acropolis Museum and the quite extensive and structured work that has been done on the largest museum in the country, at least since I took up my duties in October, and so I have a more active involvement in things. Let us recall that the Acropolis Museum is a legal entity governed by public law, which manages the museum, namely its exhibitions and revenues. One of the issues we have identified is that it has never been implemented another part of its founding law, which provides that part of its revenue should be directed towards the Ministry of Culture - and it makes sense - to strengthen the action of smaller museums in the country. This was done very quickly by the end of 2018. It was by joint ministerial decision of the Ministry of Culture with the Ministry of Finance. It was decided on the one hand to increase the ticket, which was quite low, was only EUR 5. Therefore, at the end of the ten years of operation, we have an update of the tariff policy. In fact, these 10 euros are for the high-performance period. So it will remain 5 euros the rest of the year, strengthening cultural tourism in the winter season, the lowest visitability, precisely to attract more people to Athens outside the period and to prolong the tourist season. Of the total increased revenues, a 30% - it is a large 30% - since this year it goes to the Ministry of Culture and strengthens the other museums. So an important step was taken. We said to start with this to catch up this year's season and not to refer it to the bells from 2020 onwards. That was the first step. The second step is, obviously, addressing the great structural problem of the museum, which was that ten years after its inauguration - nine years last year, ten years - they will be closing down this year - still operates with an erecting organization, i.e. with the staff not placed at the museum itself, but at another body responsible for building the museum. We have also dealt with this issue. We voted for legislation which leads to the resolution and liquidation of the Creation Agency and rescues jobs, for which administrative procedures have already been completed within the museum and have been transferred to the museum. All the procedures needed for pre-service recognition, postgraduate recognition and postgraduate transfer are completed in order to restore a fair service hierarchy within the Museum. So Mr Xydakis is right, the next step, and we have already discussed this with the Board of Directors and the President of the Acropolis Museum, it will be the placement of the managers from the staff who have now acquired the museum. Because so far he didn't have that kind of staff. There is also the question of the Director-General. Obviously the law will also be implemented, with an invitation, so that, in accordance with the provisions of the law, a Director-General will come to take over the entire administrative hierarchy in the next period.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting from the top Western theory is 30 for students and students and two for teachers from the 13th Kallithea Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u64	Thank you. Minister, you tell me that the agency will start to run. It hasn't begun. That's what I'm holding up. So we're still in the situation 2009-2013. In 2019, ten years later, the Acropolis Museum does not have organisation. I think it's a very big responsibility too. The ministers should not be sleeping by the objections of the board of directors to implement the agency. That requires the good of the museum. I would therefore like to see an extension, since we find that there is no Agency of the Acropolis Museum, to ask whether there is an Agency in the Archaeological Resources Fund, established under a 1976 law, when there was no computerization at all. What's going on there? I had a tip. We knew that in autumn 2015 there would be a plan of organisation, a proposal, a Draft to discuss. There was an organisation plan in the summer of 2016. We are summer of 2019. Is there any thought there of having this big fund, which manages 80-100 million a year? There's nothing wrong with him. He does not have a computer centre, he does not have an economic operator, he does not have a commercial operator. He doesn't have a manager. It is run there by a board of directors. Does the Greek Festival, the great anonymous company of the Greek State, have any organisation? Is the National Opera Organized? I am talking about the large, predicted organizations, who enjoy appreciation and train the Greek people and also manage a great deal of money from the Greek public, the Greek taxpayer. In what ways do these great artistic organizations progress? Are they going without rules of procedure, without organograms or with some presidential decrees or royal decrees of the 1960s and 1970s? In some of these supervised organisations I think there is nothing at all. There's no record, there's no description of posts. What about this situation?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Army has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u66	To start with the Acropolis Museum. No, the Acropolis Museum isn't where it was ten years ago, because it's currently having staff. The administrative issues of the staff are settled so that a hierarchy is restored, so that there are no injustices. And it is - if you want - something we have in the Ministry of Culture. You know that at this time, pre-service recognitions are completed, which will enable people, who have no recognised pre-service, to join candidates for placement to chief antiquities and department leaders and then follow the next step. In the Acropolis Museum, in fact, we may be closer to where the Ministry has been found because of the conventions and many administrative issues. So too many steps have been taken at least in the Acropolis Museum in the last six months. And that makes us quite credible to say that in the summer the issues of staffing the Agency's positions will have been advanced. As far as the Archaeological Resources Fund is concerned, we are presenting a project of organogram, which goes far beyond any processing it has done in the past, with a accumulated experience, which has not only the Director-General, but also has a separate structure for administrative economic services, has a special commercial department, a production department of cultural products and a development department, distinguishing what the board will do and what management will do with the Director-General. So we are also dealing with this issue. As far as the supervisory bodies of the Ministry are concerned, the information I have from the Minister is that at least a first round of organisational programmes for supervised bodies of the Ministry, which will proceed in the next period, is being completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate on this point has been concluded. We will be interrupting until 11.15 a.m. to continue with legislative work. I welcome Mr Kuvelis, who, as an old parliamentarian, is on time. We cannot, however, begin, Mr Kouvelli, before the appropriate ministry arrives!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Structuring the donation contract between the Greek State, the General Children's Hospital of Pentelis and the contributors of Elizabeth Papagiannopoulou's covenant". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 13 May 2019 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u69	The House has agreed. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty students and students and three educational attendants from the 10th Haidari Municipal School. The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u71	Here, Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, we are debating a sanction. The outcome of the committee and the positions of the parties is well known.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u73	It's a sanction, but it's not a contract sanction. It's a bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u74	Yeah, that's all I want to say. I believe that this is an issue on which, as has been said, there are no particular objections. But what we see from last night until today before the process begins is a rain of amendments. I would ask the Bureau to take into account the earlier decisions of the Conference of Presidents and the implementation of the respective decisions by the Presidents, who were in the Bureau, and not to accept any new amendments, whether parliamentary or ministerial, since the process of the draft law we are discussing today has begun.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u75	You mean from this moment on?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u76	From this moment on. In other words, from now on, we do not have until 15.00 p.m. and 16.00 p.m. to make amendments at the last minute, because this practice proves that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u77	Mr Lambroulis, the Bureau has not been informed of any further amendments. You've sat in this chair often. I cannot assure you, of course, until the afternoon when we will finish what will happen. But so far we don't have one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u78	I raised the matter from the start of the sitting. They're 11 amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u79	I fully understand your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u80	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u81	What do you mean? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, on this point, I should like to put forward an amendment. We have tabled one and it is now coming to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u83	Look, Mr Lambroulis is mostly talking about ministerial amendments. It does not mean that it does not exclude Members of Parliament, but it is the reason that raised the matter, and it is quite right, and it was a unanimous decision, if I remember correctly, in the Conference of Presidents, it is the rain of ministerial amendments and not so much for colleagues. Mr. Kouvelis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendments are two, of course, embedded in a single text, which relate to the first extension of the deadline for registering in the Electronic Register of Tourist Boats and the second to the incorporation of the Internal Affairs Directorate of the Ministry of Shipping and Islands Policy into a single address along with the Directorate of the Ministry of Civil Protection. With regard to extending the deadline for registration in the Electronic Register of Tourist Vessels, I must point out that the results so far are very important. That is, three thousand three hundred seventy - seventy - nine professional vessels have been registered in the electronic register for about five thousand two hundred. Also, there are two hundred seventy-seven-day ships in a total of about seven hundred days. Recording in the Electronic Register is a very important case, because it concerns ensuring legality, protecting work at sea, and, of course, it raises a number of bureaucratic issues which, because there was no electronic register, were always present and were extremely difficult for tourist ships to operate, but also for the services that are legally supervised. I would ask you to approve an extension by 15 September to ensure the registration of ships which have not been registered. With regard to the other amendment, which relates to the incorporation of the Internal Affairs Directorate into the existing Directorate of the Ministry of Civil Protection: this aims to ensure uniform action and behaviour, savings and money and more generally expenditure, and, of course, this new Parliament, this new address, as will emerge from the incorporation of the Ministry of Interior of the Ministry of Shipping into the respective Ministry of Civil Protection, ensures that acts and omissions relating to various designations of corruption are controlled. Of course, the individual Internal Affairs Directorate of the Ministry of Civil Protection is certain that you know that it is not only about executives, it is not only about those belonging to the Greek Police, but it extends to all natural persons and, more generally, private legal persons. This competence therefore remains in the individual function of the Internal Affairs Directorate with regard to the Ministry of Civil Protection, if you like. The other activity and responsibility, therefore, relate to officials who serve both at the Ministry of Civil Protection, of course not only with reference to the Greek Police but also to the Firefighting and, of course, to the members of the Port Body. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u85	Me too, Mr. Kuveli. The Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics shall submit its reports to the Prosecutor's requests for permission to prosecute Members of Parliament. As soon as Mr. Dess is up in Step, which I call, please, open the electronic record. We'll go with the normal procedure and as soon as Mr. Fotillas comes down, the electronic recording will be closed. Mr. Dede, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Minister. Because today we will vote on the setting-up of a Donation Convention between the Greek public, the General Hospital of Pentelis and the Cooperatives of Elizabeth Papayannopoulos, I would like to remind you - and I would remind the Greek people - of the following events that have taken place during our Government under the guidance of the Ministry of Health and Welfare by these ministers. Let's start with January 2018. In January 2018, we voted in Parliament a sanction, donation of the National Bank of Greece, the Foundation of the Hellenic Bank of Greece, which was of the order of 30 million euros. This money came to the Greek state in the form of a donation to reform part of the new wing of "Evangelism", the great general hospital of Athens and all of Greece, the largest hospital, in the sense that the spaces were formed, in order to create a central library of "Evangelism", which is now the largest library for the medical world of the country and is a very important project. Of course, along with this donation, money from this donation was also used to supplement the “Advanced” physical structure, mainly in medical equipment. Furthermore, after this donation of the National Bank of Greece, at the end of September 2018, we had two big offers in the sense of donation from the Foundation "STAUROS NIARGOS". The Foundation made available to the Greek state some EUR 200 to 250 million for two fundamental structures, two major structures being built. The first structure is the new hospital of Komotini, a hospital that will substantially upgrade the health level of the area on the one hand and on the other, is a project that has evolved so many years from northern Greece and especially from the area of Thessaloniki. It was a general hospital of children, which was essential to create, so that there was a structure for our children in northern Greece. As I recall, in the area of Thessaloniki there were dispersed small children's sections of the rank of ten, fifteen beds in hospitals, such as the AHEPA and the Hippocrates. These, although they were working properly, did not have the structure of a general hospital of children, so as to provide comprehensive protection and health for all the children of northern Greece and with this great donation of the Foundation "STAUROS NIARGOS" was possible. Also, during the same period in September 2018, we voted for a donation of the ALEXANDROS PANASIS Foundation of EUR 70 million to supplement the project for the establishment of the Onassis Heart Surgery Centre a transplant section that was extinct from Greece and that was created. Also, at the same time, it was created with this money and a heart-surgery pediatric department at the Onassis Heart Surgery Center. This demonstrates the following, ladies and gentlemen: Because these institutions have seen, evaluated and assessed effectively the reform programme of the National Health System by the Ministry of Health and Welfare and have also seen that there was a target on the one hand, but also a serious programme to address the problems of the National Health System, they have decided to testify to the Greek people to donate this money. We therefore consider that we should thank these institutions and please whatever - it is possible - for other cases of this type to be welcomed. As a Parliament, we thank them. Today, then, we come to ratify the donation contract of death in the sense of a covenant that he left. It was the forgived Elizabeth Papagiannopoulou, which had a privately owned space in Athens, Philothei, a place with a plot of about eight hundred seventy square meters and a two-storey double-storey building, which he wanted to give in the form of a will at the Penteli Children's Hospital. This was achieved and this will was estimated at about 1.150,000 euros, which the deceased as a will, of which about 90%, i.e. about 1.010,000 euros, is available to restructure, restructure and renovate the pediatrics of the second floor of the Pentelis Hospital and the neurological clinic of the second floor and the remaining 10%, i.e. the remaining reserve amount is to deal with unforeseen events in the performance of the project and to improve the whole project until its final delivery. This convention, ladies and gentlemen, which we are called upon to ratify, contains in detail the organization, support, coordination and in general all the moves that will be required to complete the work in the sixteen articles surrounding this bill. It is important, ladies and gentlemen, at these times, that we see people and our fellow citizens having assets for the social good. It is also important at this time of the most brutal personalization, as neoliberalism has imposed it, to see that the values of offering for the common benefit have not been lost. So we should encourage and encourage other citizens in this sense and donate to the Greek state. I would also like - and I am being given the opportunity - to remind you that various work is being done at the moment in the sense of a major project. In other words, essentially a large diamond of the structure of health, such as Henry Dunan, comes from the ownership of Piraeus Bank in the Greek public and especially the National Health System. This government, therefore, despite the fact that within this legacy of memoranda it has succeeded instead of shrinking, rather than closing structures or trying to reduce parts, shrinking these sections of medicine, instead expanding the work and reforming the national health system. At the moment, it has even gone ahead with the integration of primary health care with the local health units, the so-called TOMY, and we have moved forward. Yesterday we were inaugurated in Piraeus of the 125th TOMY, so that we would try to define primary health care, namely health care, prevention, as well as the electronic file for the entire population, so that we can reduce the cost of treatment if we have increased care for primary health care, namely prevention. So we need to see the health ministry's programme as a whole, which is not an ideological situation, is a programme aimed at targeting and planning which the Greek people should embrace in the sense that we should limit drug spending and include too many medicines - generic formulas. Currently in Greece they have generic consumption of around 20% -22%, while in Central Europe and Germany around 45% -47%. With this we will reduce pharmaceutical expenditure through the use of generics and in fact there will be a budget space for pharmaceutical expenditure on so-called expensive therapies, which the Greek society today - and because science has gone a long way - it will have to integrate them into the use of patients. Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the time to speak about the programme of the Ministry of Health and Welfare. We believe that Parliament should be grateful for this donation to Elizabeth Papayannopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty students and students and three teachers attendants from the 2nd Kissamos Municipal School of Chania. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We shall now proceed with the rapporteur-general of the New Democracy, Achaias MEP, Jason Fotilla, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President, I will not need it all, I will need less.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u89	I put fifteen on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I have already stated at the committee meeting in relation to this bill that I have no intention of confronting and of having any political confrontation with you, because neither this bill is available for this, nor is the respect required to the donor, whose donor should in any case not be deprived of the donation. I have asked you not to do the same in a way, namely not to discredit donations and donors, bringing a number of unnecessarily unreasonable amendments and thus bringing the amendments first and foremost to the donation itself. That's the donation bill. Minimum pages. These are the amendments. Five times more than the same in the convention that we are now coming to ratify. You know, it's been the last 24 hours. There have been amendments all night. Today, even now, we are talking about amendments. And, most likely, other amendments will have come to an end by the end of the sitting. Illegal amendments. Amendments that have nothing to do with the Ministry of Health. I think you should do something at some point, because you're supposed to be the new and fresh, and that's just the copying of the most bad practices in the past. That's what you do. Now I said that the committee only has to do with the essence of this bill is say a great "yes" against this donation and a great "thank you" against Elizabeth Papayannopoulos, a woman who actually linked her name to concepts such as humanism, social provision, volunteering. And we have to say this isn't the first donation Elizabeth Papayannopoulou does. He's made a series of donations, this is the last donation. It has spent a huge amount of its great fortune to offer the social whole, and we are here today, as a general rule, to discuss not donation but a thousand unnecessarily unreasonable amendments. Respect both the parliamentary procedure and the donor and his family. Our parliamentary representative will be speaking about the amendments. We're still studying them. Where can we catch you anyway? I would just like to make one comment on an amendment that comes to extend the 'Philos' programme. Let me remind you that it is a programme, which started in the first two years with European funds, continues the next with funds from the state budget with continuous extensions, without an APA procedure. That's what we have to say. Because you've been through this candy, that's what's going on with S.H.I.E.L.D. I've said it again, but let me say it again so everyone can understand me. Other ALP procedure, other SAAP supervision. The difference is that the APA process means that the APA will set the criteria, while supervision means that the Minister will simply set the criteria and the APA will have to see whether the criteria set by the Minister are complied with. Why, really, does this amendment come as a parliamentary? It is an extension of the ‘PHILOS’ programme in order to meet the needs of migrants and refugees. Why isn't the minister coming? He doesn't want much philosophy to understand it. Because the Ministerial Amendment should also be accompanied by a report from the Accounting Office to tell us how much it costs to tell us how much we will pay for it. Because now, as I said, the funds are not European. It's funds from the state corps, and so we're bringing her in parliament without having to say how much it will cost us, without even having done an investigation, to see how much that is. We should do a cost-benefit study. We liberals say about cost-benefit studies, you don't know what you're saying. I would therefore say that you should bring this amendment, Mr Polakis. Didn't you really think about it? Did some of your MPs think about it? You did not think that this convention should be extended, as you say, in order to meet the needs of refugees and migrants. You forgot, and some of your MPs came to remind you of it? I don't honor you too much of this. I close by saying a big yes and a great thank you to donation and family. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that, as legal and legal, we know that when such an act is linked to rights, it affects and concerns third parties, something which the relevant scientific service clearly says is happening, we should be very careful so that we do not come to expect decisions of the Council of State to resolve these issues, thereby losing a particular time and money and ultimately depreciating the donation itself, which will not be able to operate. Yes, well, be careful how you do the job so that we do not waste time on the Council of State and, anyway, do not be late for this donation to begin and end, because it has to be done in twenty months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u91	We're moving on with the special speakers. I call on Mr Constantine Barriotta, a special speaker from the Democratic Partnership, to Stepma. No other Minister for Amendment has come. Come on, Mr. Barriotta. You've got 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u92	I will not need all the time, Mr President, thank you. I am not going to need, above all, because with this mess created by the amendments, I am going to look forward to putting myself in place and speaking about the amendments, which I have not even read in a second year.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u93	In any case, I'm telling you that the general rapporteurs and the speakers will be seconded.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u94	Thank you. With regard to the so-called subject of today's debate on donation, we have - I think - already exhausted the debate by the committees. It's a welcome donation to the hospital. Beyond thanks and - if you want - the praises to people who have the generosity and generosity to offer many times millions whole, to a health system that still has huge problems and has remained behind infrastructure, from services, to an extent really very - very serious, all we could do is help to advertise these actions and attract others. I heard Mr. Deede listing the great donations that have been made lately. I would like to point out that in 2018 and 2019, at least EUR 3.5 million is invisible and small donations, from a few hundred euros to a few thousand euros, which, unfortunately, if anyone sees them centrally caught by the 'DIAGY', what they do, except to show the enormous interest that exists by ordinary people and by small and medium-sized companies and businesses in supporting the RESS and the vote of confidence that the Greek people in this way give to the EHS, they very much outline the enormous shortcomings and shortcomings, as we talk about donations that start with pillowcases and bed linen and composters and reach up to a few hundred euros, which hospitals are unable at this time to buy. It is well known that many health systems and, above all, English, have institutionalized entire donations and support. I have said on other occasions that it would be very good and very useful to see our hospitals and the Ministry, in addition, how this could be organised. There is a huge gap in the registration and guidance of all these donations for the benefit of the system, which we need to see at some point, such as the very large donations that need to be mentioned and supported. Recently, in recent years, large public-private foundations have gone ahead and have really supported the National Health System. Let's say that without Niarchos' donation to the EKA, it's very questionable if today the EKAB could work, with the situation where his machines and cars were found, before the huge donation that took place in very fast time. We also say that all these offers are welcome. Questions arise about the state - and it is something that we have not discussed - as to the feasibility and necessity of some of these donations, as I fear that neither a specific programme exists nor needs are hierarchised in such a way that this money that is valuable and important offers can be directed in such a way that, in fact, they would be faced with great needs in the health system. Let us not forget that in many cases of this type donations, which are donations to materials, buildings, infrastructure, automatically mean an increase in expenditure or new operating needs which in the budgetary conditions of the next few decades - that is the truth - from somewhere else they must be removed. So, in my opinion, it must be very careful how these donations are incorporated into the health system, so that they really operate in favour of the health system, I would really like to hear, at some point - it is not the day and I would not like to deceive anything - to hear what the Ministry is planning to integrate Henry Dunan into the National Health System. I will say, for example, that the young children also know that on the axis of Queen Sophia - Mediterranean, about 50% of the national health system's potential is assembled. The addition of another hospital to the seventeen public institutions that exist from "Evangelism" to "Salvation" raises questions. I'm not saying no. I am simply saying that the way in which this type of expenditure is incorporated and this type of donation must be very careful. Eighty million euros means a large hospital in West Attica, on the bank of Kifissus, to remember what Mrs Fofi Gennimata said yesterday. We all know that health is downgraded and the presence of the public health system is hypotonic, instead of the creation of another infrastructure where there are many. I will finish this chapter by referring to something positive. The first experience and the first conversation we had was when the radiation therapeutics were pending. I'm talking about 2015. Niarchus' donation was in danger of being lost. Since then, a lot of water has flown for the government in the groove. In his honor, the Minister for Health, Mr. Xanthos, in committee a few months ago, admitted that he had a different view of the donations at that time. He was at least negative in donations from large institutions, such as Niarchos. He's changed. I think that's positive. I think we all now agree that the National Health System can and should absorb not only donations but funds and funding from where they can come. So I close again by saying that this is a positive action, the specific donation that we are debating today. What is not good at all is the consolidation of an old-fashioned mentality and perception, the eve of elections to have the rain of amendments, even in bills in which it was not done by previous governments. There were no amendments to this type of sanctions at any time. We have the rain of amendments from the past and today, I really reserve to talk about the amendments, because the one Mr Fotillas commented on earlier, I have not read it. I didn't even know there was until I heard Mr. Lightla. I saw, Mr. Mada, it's yours, but it's important things. At least for health, as a competent parliamentary representative, I can read them and comment on them or cross-check what I have to cross-check. However, the other forests, which are rebuilding in Matti and in the fire-fighting areas and dozens of others, do not even have time to discuss with colleagues who are more specific than me in issuing building permits - I am not - let us see what, how and why. This practice is not justified in any way. I said the other day, Mr Manda, since you are underneath - from this Step forward that you have gone too far with the opening and I have protested. You have gone too far with the incorporation of an old-fashioned mechanism and an old-fashioned concept that makes an eye. No one won elections because it speeded up the secondments of the military wives. They may be necessary, it may be a fair measure. No one won elections because they broke the subsidiary lists at the last minute, which could have been done weeks ago with the multi-branded health plan. These amendments are the epitome of old-fashioned communism, which in the whole of Opposition caused problems, and partly led to the country's bankruptcy. Not only is it undoubted and disproved in practice, but it is ratified and the main practice of a government, which has come out as a government of renewal and change, is being confirmed. It becomes one of the same, at best, if not much worse. It is, in fact, an accident in which this government handles the progress, benefits and manipulation of part of the electorate, which I think can be manipulated by micro-bedrooms and by the backbone of a time, which we would all like - I am sure - is over in 2010 with the disaster. Sadly, however, it does not just survive, but it also becomes a regular practice. We saw it in the provision of 1% of GDP directly in the run-up to the elections ten days before the elections, as we see it every day with micro-projects and micro-interferences. Unfortunately, I see that my fellow government colleagues have a real prerogative to go through micro-regulations and micro-projects. It's really a shame. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] We can never move from now on without being able to legislate in a serious way. Yesterday, a prominent judiciary said that one of the most important reasons for delaying the performance of justice was that they had to look for ten, twelve and fifteen amendments to the original law. Instead of going better, we are becoming more and more molded in old-fashionedism, who only back can take the country and will not help anyone in the elections. I'll close with you. It is a characteristic one of yesterday's polls which I invite you to see, which has taken place since the statement of the Prime Minister's major measures and which says that only 2% of the SYRIZA voters say they will be affected by the benefits, in the decision on what to vote. You can go with 2%. We will try from now on to reconnect with the vast majority of the Greeks, which at last requires transparency and good legalisation. Thank you, and for the amendments I reserve.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u95	We move to the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. George Germenis. Mr. Germenis, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. I won't need that much time. We're here to discuss a simple penalty and a donation made by a private person. A simple penalty that could end it in half an hour, all the wings of the House, you turned it into a bill, not to discuss the ratification and contract of donation between the Greek State and the Children's General Hospital of Pentelis and Elizabeth Papagiannopoulou's will, but to discuss again a number of amendments that I will mention next. You were going to bring amendments to it, and that is why you converted this sentence into a bill. As far as this ratification is concerned, we have also talked about it in committee. We don't have much to add to this. We have emphasised other times - we will repeat it now - that it is hopeful that there will still be donations to the Greek public at the time when we are living in the extreme social and economic crisis. The fact that a Greek woman decides to make use of the money she will get from selling a property to build a building at the Penteli Children's Hospital is something that fills us if anything else hope and optimism especially in the difficult times that we experience the most acute social and economic crisis. In the past, of course, the Left for donations of this kind kept ideas. We remember in 2014, when SYRIZA and KKE voted together to create a hostel for the hospitality of relatives of cancer patients. Obviously you are now leaving your ideas behind, since the will of individuals is giving solutions and helping effectively where the state is badly or well unable to help. You are now in a difficult position to go on holiday to the bourgeois heirs as a opposition. The question, of course, of donations to other hospitals and treatment units is different. And it's a good thing that with such initiatives, hospitals can work and other structures, people like it don't like it. The question, therefore, is whether health structures can be strengthened, to be supported by the state, but even if donations can be supported by the state. What is the point of giving an intensive care unit, for example, when there is no staff to serve it? What's the point in making supermodern surgery when there's not going to be consumables when there's no doctors and nurses? At this stage, the public will have to act in a framework of action, and it should continue to support the Pentelis Children's Hospital in practice. Why, as we have mentioned, what will the buildings, the surgery, the equipment, be able to do if the public does not do what it has to do? We have a recent example when the institution "Stavros Niarchos" had decided to donate to the Greek state a significant amount to deal with the intra-Hellenic infections in the hospitals of the ESS, which are a major public health problem and are responsible for the death of at least a thousand six hundred people and tens of thousands of hospitals annually. However, the left government has made sure that this donation is not implemented. What, then, is the point of fulfilling the desire of the vessel, of building floors, making arrangements for wings and halls and other works, when the Greek State can not only support them, nor can it make use of donations? In order not to end up with the donation of gifts in gifts, there must also be the corresponding budgets from the Ministry of Health, but above all there must be something that you cannot do under any circumstances. We are talking about a national plan for the health of the Greeks. Otherwise, whatever donations are made - and they are rightly done - they will have no practical effect, resulting in public health and care problems going on. We are positive about this donation and will vote for it. We shall now proceed to the amendments. We're talking about this paw that's around a hundred pages. Mr. Manda, you were opposition and present, when Mr. Army, Mr. Lafazanis, was here, when the New Democracy and the PASOK brought a series of amendments. Then, of course, you were on the bench and you weren't first violin like now. They made the Rodeo Hall so that such amendments would not pass. We must finally take a position on the Bureau at some point. We have put all the wings of this House in the Conference of Presidents. Everyone agrees on that. What's going on in the end? You all whistle indifferently. You bring the amendments and life goes on. In fact, some amendments could also be drafted on their own. There are a number of other amendments. Specifically, I'm talking about issuing building permits for Matty. You should be ashamed of yourself because that's where we had a hundred dead. We have an entire area that has become inappropriate now, and now you ask these people to have building permits and to pay them from their pockets of course. Many of them have lost their burned papers, and they have to get back into procedures. Some buildings took place in the 1960s, which we all know well or badly how they were built and where they were built. When a man has a house there for fifty years, he has inherited it from his father or grandfather, what changes do you ask him to make? There was a building man, a house, a problem that we all knew in the area, the whole region was destroyed, and at the moment there is not even a building. I invite you all to go and see the area. Skull place, lunar scenery is now. All residents living in houses have left the area, we're talking about over three hundred families, and they're left by individuals to collect everything they can from their property. Now we come here to give them little facilities that are a gift of bread when they have to get out of their pockets to pay for the issue of a building licence. These people are 'working' for them. They suffered these damages, and the state should in fast track ways go through neighborhoods, and at little cost and much easier to resolve their hands and not get into a bureaucratic process so that they too can see a white day. There may have been countryside, some with economic surface, but there were also the people who inherited them, and many of them said that this legacy is a burden on their pockets. Apart from that, we must show a sensitivity, and if the Ministry can - and it can - ensure that these people can have a tile in their heads. For the other amendments I will be placed later, as soon as we have had time to see them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u97	Good. The reason is the special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece and F Vice-President of the Parliament, George Lambroulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. The previous rapporteurs and specialist speakers have spoken about the unacceptable procedure with the industry of the amendments, which we also supported at the beginning of the sitting, Mr President. As far as the bill is concerned, which we are discussing with the specific donation and conclusion of a contract between the public and the representatives of the legacy, as a party - as we have, and we have also referred to the committee - we are not opposed to measures that can improve the benefits, the conditions of care for the people, and particularly those relating to the early diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation of them. Systemically we highlight the enormous deficiencies in the public health system in infrastructure, equipment and personnel, in hospitals, primary health care, emergency pre-medical care. We call upon them to be resolved by our interventions in Parliament's procedures and, above all, by our action within the framework of the labour and people's movement. As we have pointed out in committee, such measures must be the sole responsibility of the State, must be fully financed by the State budget, must ensure that full and full-time permanent staff are provided with adequate and modern medical equipment. And, of course, these should be part of the pan-Hellenic public health system, so that all preventive, diagnostic and therapeutic actions can be provided in good time, safely and completely free of charge, to those in need, without terms and conditions. In our opinion, public health services, their development and their absolute and universal exploitation by the people cannot depend on charity, volunteering and individual supply, because it is a popular right and a state responsibility, resulting from the nature of these services, and also from the fact that workers and other popular strata are the ones producing wealth in our country. We believe that the State must fully ensure these structures and services, and only in subsidiary and complementary terms, that any tenders are made available. Faced with the well-known argument that the State has no money, there is a crisis etc., the reality is that during the period of increased growth rates, the State and capital with all its governments were underfinanced by the public health system, they did not develop the necessary infrastructure and at the same time they took measures to cut public benefits, while patients paid much more. All of this today is speeding up and multiplying, because it is precisely capitalist growth by steaming business groups that is in complete contrast with popular social needs. So the state never has money for the needs of the people, nor in the phase of capitalist development, nor in the phase of the capitalist economic crisis, because it is a political choice to give all kinds of business support through tax exemptions, tax reliefs, giving them warm money and more to ensure their high profitability. So what workers produce, and much more what they are prevented from producing, precisely because of capitalist property, arrive and make the development of a public modern and free health system at all its levels. The government, like the previous governments, is making use of these agreements. For example - as the committee has said, but also from this step by the SYRIZA rapporteur and not only - the contract with the Onassis Foundation, the donations from the Nicaraguan Foundation aimed - and with the current government as well as from the previous governments - at the same time, at the ideological impact of these offers on our workers, of course. On the one hand, the human face of the system of capitalism of this barbaric system of exploitation, on the other hand, to reconcile people, workers with the perception that, as far as the profitability of entrepreneurs is concerned, there can also be no crumbs in this regard in terms of the creation of structures, health services or other sectors. At the same time, workers become addicted to the concept of social services and benefits not as a right but as a charity. Because at the same time as the great benefactors for the people, that is to say, all the business groups who consider the cause of war to be a cause of war, even demanding a fundamental increase in wages, for example, form working and living conditions in the past decades. So they either have a part of the profits of workers themselves or through the state, in order to ensure multiple profits, while seeking the integration and so-called social peace, while governments with their policies for pluralism contribute, so that the right of patients to necessary natural and necessary public health units is presented as an offer from those who condemn the people to impoverishment. Of course, as we have said in committee, we will vote for this ratification of the convention. We're positive. Of course, for the amendments, Mr President, as the previous rapporteurs have said, we will have the possibility of a second-class position, after listening to the ministers who will be supporting them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. You are right about the amendments. We therefore give the floor to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Stathakis, in order to develop an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. They are five amendments. The four relate to fire-fighting areas. They are trying to further simplify the issue of building permits. The three refer to them, and the fourth refers to the issue of fines imposed and which are cancelled, as we had announced two weeks ago. I begin with the three main amendments simplifying the procedure for issuing building permits: The first relates to the statement on the non-forestry character of a property, where the already available paper received from the Natural Disaster Restoration Fund, the TAPK, with which it received the housing assistance, can be provided. This is equivalent, because he's already made sure that it's not forest, so that the beneficiary can get the housing subscription. Therefore, it is equivalent to submit this paper instead of the certification of the competent Forestry Directorate. This is the one simplification. The second simplification relates to the submission to the Forests Directorate, not of the considered urban permit - we are always talking about those who have a permit - but also a copy of it, in order to reduce for one resident to go from town to the forest hall and again to town planning and so on. So with the copy of the building licence, the office is covered. The third simplification concerns neighbourhood issues. There are topics on the basis of the oldest legislation in place. In order to provide a very clear framework for the conditions of construction, limitations on the construction and restoration of the affected buildings are laid down. These are the rules which must be followed by two and a half measures by the neighbour and some others. I would remind you that the ministerial decision to draw up large roads in the region has been published. So towns are now aware of the reconstruction period and have the main roads. At the same time, the distances provided for in the previous legislation for the affected areas, the eight and a half metres from the roads, will be respected in order to make the reconstruction right. The fourth regulation relates to fines imposed on owners of property in the areas in question. These fines are cancelled. With the entry into force of this provision, only a very small paradox shall be paid for the annulment of such fines. At the same time the imposition of sanctions and the collection of fines in arbitrary buildings, erected before 2011, is suspended until the definitive delimitation and settlement of the cases of the affected area. We are always talking about the big problem that emerged with the papa stream. The fifth amendment is also part of the simplification. You know that there are too many categories of construction work that have so far been suspended and certain categories of work have been banned. Now the system's changing. Categories of construction work exempted from the ban on fire-fighting areas in the two regions, Marathon and Rafina, are increasing. Basically, the regulation aims at a faster and smoother restoration and refurbishment of the above area. It concerns the categories of construction work, which, from a more complex category to a simpler category, so that they can produce and proceed with the reconstruction and construction work in a much simpler way. In addition to this, there is a provision regulating the issues of the special spatial plan to be drawn up in these areas. About the special spatial plan, I inform you we've done the pre-process with Metsovio Polytechnic. It's over. The special spatial plan will adopt the rules and procedures for the notice next Wednesday at KESYPOTHIA, in which case the special spatial area for the wider region, which will also be the main restoration element in the future of the whole region, will be called. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] The last provision and amendment that comes relates to another issue, the arbitrary law. As you know, the deadline is over. The Act expires at the end of 2019. The original law provided for a bonus for those who would make their applications early and then there was an escalation - let me say - fines, 10% and 20% additional. While you had a discount at first, 20%, 10% and zero, then there was an escalation, which was working in the eye of a fine. These 10% and 20% increments are being abolished. There is no point in that, because extensions were made to the initial favourable arrangements. So they have no reason to do so by the end of the year. So those who apply at the end just lose the initial discount and have 0%. So there is no question of having fines on this. That's the last setup. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr Stathakis. Let me say that what the Minister said is an amendment number 2197/183. Let's move on with the special speaker from the river Mr. George Mavrota. Let me tell you that at 13.00 p.m. we will interrupt because we have to vote on waivers of immunity and elect Vice-President of Parliament. So, we're normally moving until 13:00. Here, Mr. Blacks, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. We have also talked about the subject of the bill in committee. We are clearly positive about the ratification of the donation contract between the Greek State, the General Hospital of the Pentelis Children and the contributors of Elizabeth Papagiannopoulou's will, for which I imagine we will all express our gratitude. The synergies between private and public bodies have been breathtaking, I would say, in the health system, such as the donations of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, where and since the government and the various state bodies accept them and do what they should do. So we are clearly positive about the contents of the bill, but clearly negative to the cowards of the bill. I am referring, like all the rapporteurs for opposition, to the amendments which have been tabled, to an effective donation contract. They are irrelevant amendments, without even urgent many of them, or rather what makes them urgent is that this is the last bill before the European elections, so there is time for a few more arrangements. We are, therefore, clearly negative in terms of the procedure and I have not yet seen the parliamentary amendments - I am referring only to the ministerial - which come from the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. We have heard from Mr Stathakis the amendment on firemen in Matti and Vuja. Let us say here that they had a gathering today outside the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. Other amendments are also coming from the Ministry of Finance, from the Ministry of Economy and Development, from the Ministry of Justice, and even from the Ministry of Shipping on the establishment of a Single Internal Affairs Service. Why would that come with an amendment to a Creation of a Donation Contract? That is why we will be voting on all the amendments which we are now voting on without entering into the contents, apart from the one concerning the firefighting in Eye, which we shall vote for, by once again condemning the disgrace of the House, which is regarded by the majority of decorative government, and which has created parliamentary imperialism. We have come to legislation by means of amendments. Indeed, yesterday at the Conference of Presidents where we had the debate on the choice of President of the Ice Bay and one of the big problems the judges mentioned was the issue of pluralism and maliciousness and that if there are many amendments, they do not know what is ultimately the case in every law, we were all swinging our heads together - and the government MPs - acknowledging this issue. But when time comes for this, unfortunately, we are not resisting this convenience that exists. The amendments therefore enable the government to legislate without going through the committees, without listening to the bodies, unless the only criticism is one which the rapporteurs and the special speakers have in the second place. The content of this bill, which concerns donation, is also wrong, with this - as we are used to saying and repeating constantly -'spray, wipe and finish' legislation. We will therefore be positive about the main content of the donation bill. Without entering into the contents, we will vote 'no' for the amendments, denouncing the whole process, except, as we have said, the one concerning the firemen in Matti. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, too. The Minister for the Environment and Energy has the floor now, Mr Georgios Diaras, to tell us about an amendment which makes it acceptable. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. It has been tabled by my fellow Members, Ilias Cameroon, Excellency Georgios, Vardakis Socrates and other SYRIZA Members, an amendment enabling the Minister to extend the dates for statements on the Land register, which, in accordance with Article 2(5) of Law 2308/1995, we had until now, could be making within six months. More than six months we couldn't. And because in some areas, as in the Dodecanese, it expires in six months, and the rate of declarations is very low - in the middle of the whole of Greece, we are in 15% - and in many areas the deadlines expire on either 10 June or now in May, and it is always the citizens' demand, but also many Members of Parliament, that this should be done. I think that all colleagues will vote on this amendment. This is the amendment with a general number of 2199 and a specific 185. This amendment is necessary. The Minister may grant an extension of up to six months. It does not mean that extensions will be given for six months, because we need to take into account other factors, such as that of the ceremonial offices, which have employees, and if we give such an extension directly, the offices will die, the citizens will not go. We will simply give those extensions that they need by weighting the conditions for the citizens who cannot, do not have the way, collect the documents. The possibility of this amendment, which is accepted, is up to six months. But that's not how it's gonna happen. The extensions will not have this period of time. I say this so that Greek citizens too can hear it so that they do not stop saying, because at the last minute, as it is done, they cannot collect the documents. It is therefore accepted. We would like to thank my colleagues, because it was indeed a need and we accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Deputy Minister George Diaras. The reason is the special speaker from the Centroon Association Mr. Dimitrios Cavalellas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u106	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the state deficit comes to cover private individuals with donations from some euros to millions. Recent example is the donations of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation for health. We want to say a great thank you to Elizabeth Papayannopoulos and all these anonymous benefactors who support the weaknesses of the Greek state in the difficult times. Because it is known that state hospitals sometimes miss basics, such as gauze, but too many other things that individuals are asked to bring with them, together with their patient. I have listened with relief to the extension of registration in the electronic registers of tourist boats for pleasure by Mr. Kouvelis. It was necessary to give this extension by 15 September, but that is not enough. The difficulties and problems remain. I want attention here. Of course the Minister is missing right now, but I hope he can hear it from somewhere. There are many problems and I will give you an example. The boats are the boats that take people and take them from one side to the other, on one island, they make their bathrooms within the ship tourists and return. It's got to be a pact. The shipwreck is coming under the names. But when someone boards at the last moment, there is a difficulty in getting out of the shipwreck, because sometimes the port authorities are away from the tourists' boarding site. Let's assume the owners of tourist boats are aware and take out the charter for fifty tourists from the previous day. If anyone the next day gets sick or doesn't go because he changed his mind or wants to bring his wife who didn't want her to be, there's illegality, because there's no last moment, at the time of the ship, to go to the twenty kilometers that are the nearest port office to make the change. Therefore, as a rule, most of the conditions are unlawful without their will. It is very simple to be able to get out of some application electronically, so that there is information about the changes or the charters. We should look at this more seriously, Minister, because there are problems on this particular issue which are unresolved. As far as the amendments are concerned, we are positive as they serve our fellow citizens. We must of course listen to the Minister further as to whether he intends to give further explanations so that we can be more precise in our decisions and in our vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, too. Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou, State Secretary for Finance, has the floor to table amendments or legislative improvements. Here, Mrs. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. I shall table two amendments. The first is with a general number 2190 and a special 176, which concerns the ENPIA which we are waiting for for in 2019. What are we changing to that? The 30% reduction in the tax when it is less than or equal to EUR 100, then it will be taken whole and when it exceeds EUR 100, it will reach EUR 100. That's the first thing we change. Secondly, the value of the real estate taken into account for the granting of the reduction does not take into account the value of the land outside the project, i.e. land. land. We think it's a good thing. In the calculations our services began to make, they found that we should take this into account in order to get the discount on more properties. And the second amendment, with a general number of 2200 and a special 186, is the General Accounting Office of the State. Here, the first article establishes a horizontal and uniform remuneration for the officials of all the inspection and control bodies of the Ministry of Finance, irrespective of the authorities, who carry out the duties of an inspector or a verifier. Why are we doing this? We are giving a EUR 50 allowance, which cannot exceed EUR 300 a month. We want to increase transparency and combat any corruption in the operation of the Audit Committees. Also with what we have voted on and implemented since Monday, we must step up the controls so that we have the revenue we expect. With the second article of this amendment, we are bringing a isology for the retrospectives that we voted with Nos 4575/2818 for those who served from 1-1-2015 to 31-12-2016. They are the one-off retrospectives, they relate to assistants, curators and scientific associates of the universities. They had escaped from the previous day and we are now coming to make it right. It is for a few people, there is no question of budget and we can give it to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u109	Thank you to the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Papanatsiou. The Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has the floor, Mr Kalogerou. Until I get the floor to say that the deceased, Elizabeth Papayannopoulos, is wrongly referred to as a lady. The deceased are neither ladies nor gentlemen. We address them by their name or, since we have a very good assessment, we can say 'the inestimable', 'the inestimable'. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u110	I shall refer to an amendment with four provisions. All four are positive arrangements. I start with the first one. The first regulation concerns the institution of legal aid. There has been an effort in recent years to strengthen the institution of legal aid every day, which we all understand is how important it is for our fellow citizens of low incomes, to make a better, more orderly way of dealing with the payment of lawyers who are involved in the institution of legal aid. Now, so far, the reservations in favour of ECA, the general reservations of lawyers' lawyers are then attributed by different bodies. Some are attributed by the FAO, by the LEAD, etc. What are we now doing with this provision? These reservations are now being awarded uniformly through legal associations. It is a constant request from the Plenary Assembly of the Bar Associations and we are coming to satisfy it. This is the first provision. The second provision relates to a fixed request by the guardian and the external guardian of the detention shops. By 2002 there was the so-called ‘suit allowance’. Since 2002 and with the exception of 2012 and 2013, where there has been a textile supply to workers in prison, there has been no uniform allowance anymore. That's a solid request for them. On the basis of the proposed provision, only for 2019, EUR 120 shall be paid. It is a mere payment, and it is not planned for 2020, because there is a workshop in Grevenes and Mandarin prisons, where they prepare these uniforms for the guarding and external guarding of detention stores. The third provision relates to a special salary arrangement for the twenty-fifth-fifth-fifth-of-fifth-fifth-of-fifth-fifth-of-fifth-year doctors. I think it is unnecessary to say the importance of the role of coroners in the administration of justice. According to the Act of 2017, although gross earnings remained the same, the remuneration payable decreased. So we correct this special payroll provision. It is recalculated and substantially doubled the special medical allowance as follows: For for for forensics 1, the amount determined on the basis of the proposed provision is EUR 550, EUR 500, EUR 3, EUR 450 and EUR 4'. Also, a consistent request from the twenty-five forensics in the country. And the last proposed provision is an amendment of the d.d.62/2014, concerning the measure of electronic surveillance, so-called "crack". In accordance with the Presidential Decree and with the last amendment of the Presidential Decree, the period for piloting the measure of electronic surveillance has been extended for a period of up to forty-eight months. It's over now. Under the proposed provision, the pilot measure is to be terminated by means of an act of accreditation of the Minister. In order not to come back because the institution of electronic surveillance is important and because the Presidential Decree provided a specific explicit date for the pilot measure, we set out the pilot project to end with the Minister's credentials in order to have the comfort of its implementation and its overall expansion. We're also making a legislative improvement. As the proposed provision says "The first paragraph..." is corrected - and does not go up to the top final, but goes on to the next three lines - and the right one is: "The first sentence of the first subparagraph". There is also this legislative improvement, so that there is clarity in the provision. These are four provisions of the amendment and I am at your disposal for any clarifications.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Statakis, I've been told that you have a legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u112	A legal improvement exists on a date and I submit it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u113	Mr Kegeroglu asked for the parliamentary representatives to be preceded, because there is a need to depart. Here, Mr President, you have the floor for a very short time, not to exceed 13 a.m. because it follows a vote, as you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] First of all, I should like to refer to the meeting yesterday at which the House ratified an agreement signed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with the country of Skopje and which we did not vote on, because it is a derivative of the Prespecies Agreement, although the development of relations with neighbouring countries could indeed be the best thing if this agreement had the features that we had for our country, if it did not contain all the things we have spoken about many times. My second point concerns the sterile confrontation of the New Democracy and SYRIZA, Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Tsipras, which continues in relation to the public health system. The best alibi, ladies and gentlemen, for those who want to privatise health is the poor functioning of the public health system. And in that sense yesterday I specifically referred to it, but unfortunately the Minister and his commissioner also misled my words. So I said - and I will submit to the Minutes of yesterday's sitting - that from 2014 to 2019, the magnetic tombographer does not work at the 'Atticon' Hospital. This hospital has been created with the best prospects and, unfortunately, four and a half, five years is not working. That's as a first reference. As a second point, I would like to say that for a year and a half in this hospital, there has been a problem in consulting surgery and surgery in connection with the installation of an aorta valve, and there are no surgery. These two, then, reports by my own, which are also contained in Mr Kremastinou's topical question, have not been answered. In any case, we are talking about the five years in which this situation exists, which is the responsibility of specific people. The Minister is coming and talks about misinformation and cheating. Sadly, he is misinformed and deceived. He is misinformed because I have not said for two years, I have said for five, and he is deceived because their trustee, the one who has put there to make the commander in the hospital and who speaks of disaster - I will submit the relevant document - is probably a'marinetta'. I have referred to two specific facts and facts, and he is slandering here. So I challenge Mr Dragon and tell him that he is not in charge of Attica. "Atticon" do some headmasters and they've broken it up. And the Minister will do well to see the Minutes first before he answers and performs designations. The third point I want to make is the present procedure and the amendments. We have said many times that an amendment was tabled once to an international convention and, once again, it has become a 'industrial' in here. And there are no amendments to the relevant or necessary, because there are also such ones. In close to the relevant and necessary, however, the Rusphetti amendments are invaded. And it's not the innocent rushphetology alone. It is also the suspects, those who are light-lighted that it is the result of some kind of agreement with economic interests, and we will be referring specifically to it. Because rosphetologicals can be, for example, Mr Manda's amendment to extend and renew only the conventions for the twenty workers of Ioannina and not for the hospitals throughout the country, but it does not have the element of interlocutory. There's no suspicion or no indication. On the other hand, an amendment which says that after a public tender has been made, after some have been excluded and after some have been qualified for a contract with the public, we are changing the terms and we are reducing what has to be paid by the contractor, this is a light lighter that has a problem and a perception, has a problem and legislation. If it is fair, as I believe it can be, and I will tell what I am talking about, that this will all apply to the competitions that will take place from now on, not to those that have already been made. It is the amendment with a general number of 2179, which makes a bamboo. If it is accepted, it will indeed be something that should be checked in this particular case. We have already said that the amendment proposed by Mr Stathakis must be voted on. We're voting for it. But we are also saying this. Why would all those nice things he said not to apply to all cases of renovation and reconstruction of buildings, but only on account of what was done in Matti and other areas alone? The simplification of procedures can be extended everywhere. The second amendment concerns an amendment to which the Secretary of State for the Environment has referred on the possibility of prolonging. It is, of course, an option that the Ministry will appreciate according to the course and we are positive about it. Of course, I should also like to say that the other amendment concerning the 'Onceso' and the 'before'. The "Onasios" Foundation belongs to the ESS. It has, however, established a special scheme with a productivity premium. This is very important and since it has been positively evaluated and extended beyond doctors and all staff, let us see this - obviously with the amendment you cannot see today - in the whole of the National Health System. Why should the productivity premium not be for all those working in the National Health System? They are, therefore, things which should not be legislated on a case-by-case basis. Unfortunately, yesterday we had the candidates for the position of President of the Ice Region and the Prosecutor of the Ice Arena, in a very detailed way at least one of our candidates said that it was essentially for the delay in the adoption of judicial decisions, because they must refer to four - five - ten laws but also in some cases to thirty - forty, because of the lack of codification, but above all because, with legislation, with amendments, legal improvements, which are registered in different laws, so much time for a judge to sit down on a particular subject. And we're going on with it. But don't you have to get in one class? We therefore have an issue which must at some point end and, above all, those which have economic costs. What the amendment itself says about having economic costs cannot walk without a report from the General Accounting Office of the State. When he doesn't mention it or it's not obvious, all right. But when he mentions that, this is not the case. Do we close the eyes to what is happening while it is compulsory? Have we found the method of the parliamentary amendment? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u115	Mr Kegeroglu, for the Minutes only, because you referred to your speech in a nonexistent state, in the 'country of Skopje', would you like to be replaced by the real name of a country, 'North Macedonia', or do you have any other perception?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u116	The neighbouring Skopje-based country. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u117	Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, until the Members of Parliament, whom I would ask everyone to join in the Chamber, are going to proceed with the vote on waivers of immunity, we will proceed with the procedure with the list of speakers. When a satisfactory number of Members are found, we will be able to carry out these two very large and serious Parliament's procedures, the vote on waivers of immunity and the election of the Z' Vice-President of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u118	Mr President, I would like to support some amendments before we stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u119	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. I will respond to some things that have been heard in my speech at the end. Now I will support three ministerial amendments from the Ministry of Health and a fourth amendment will be supported by Andreas Xanthos. The first amendment, with a general number of 2188 and a specialist 174, regulates a problem which existed in the transfer and secondment of nurses and paramedical staff, other than administrative staff and doctors, who are females of commissioners. Because there was a gap in the law there, we do it in proportion to a provision made by the Ministry of Education, where we say that these people can and are entitled to be seconded and placed in health facilities that are up to twenty-five kilometres away from the husband's home. This enables us to serve in a worthwhile and rational manner public health structures that are close to the husband’s homes and homes so that we can make better use of our staff. I'm going to give you two examples of what I mean. There is such a problem in Igoumenitsa and in Philiattes, in Dumotikh and in Orestiad, and in other areas where, because of the legal vacuum in which there was overconcentration of personnel, there is a certain number of structures which do not need it or which, in turn, there is a subdelegation to other structures which need it and which are very close to these prefectures. And that's how this problem is solved. In addition, with the third paragraph, we are actually creating an institutional framework - because there was a legal vacuum - for the secondment of people from non-border areas to border areas. And we describe the procedure for doing this because there was no description of the procedure. Although we had requests for people to go and be transferred to border areas, which we needed, it could not be implemented because this procedure was not in place. The second amendment is 2194/180. That is where we are making an amendment to the institutional framework, which is in place for the recruitment of subsidiary staff. As we have legislated - and you know - there is an electronic platform now, which opens once a year, in order to get applications to hire staff, ranked on the basis of ISP criteria in an evaluation order and depending on the financial capacity of hospitals or OSH bodies, they are recruited on the basis of the needs they have or are created in some areas by pensions, secondments, permits, sick leave, etc. or for emergencies. And since they have the money - because they have the hospitals enough money now - they can strengthen their staff with these two-year contracts with full working rights. But there is this. By opening this once a year, we cannot - let us say now - set an example - open the hospital of Karpathos, so to speak. In fact, we are able, when emergency needs arise for health service providers, to allow the platform to be opened, beyond one year, which is institutionally opened every time, for specific structures so that applications can be made so that we can recruit staff and operate structures. That is what we are doing with this first paragraph. With the second paragraph of the amendment, we allow ancillary staff to be paid not only from the hospitals' own resources, but to be - as has been done - from Union funds and co-financed programmes. The third amendment under number 2196/182 is an amendment, which the workers of the Onasea Heart Surgery Centre have long been waiting for. He's out and he's agreed to the Onassis Foundation. It is an amendment to the contract of the Onassis Heart Surgery Centre, which had been amended by the donation contract for the transplant center. There are some things that are described, in relation to the employment situation, the insurance scheme of the workers, which are to be hired, which has created some blurred points. We're clear. It clarifies the issue of the possibility of signing an operational contract, which covers all workers. It clears the issue of the insurance scheme. It clarifies the question that any premium that Onassis may give will relate to all the workers and not only to doctors and nurses, as was written in the previous contract. On this basis, it is an amendment and a proper regulation agreed with the Onassis Foundation, which it has to agree to, in order to amend this donation contract and which we are tabling as an amendment to today's bill. Also to say a few words. I am making a legislative improvement for the title of the draft law. The words ‘and other provisions’ shall be inserted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u121	I would also like to say on the amendment tabled by Mr Mandash that there is a legislative improvement there too. That is what I want to talk about. This is a very serious amendment, really very serious. And I'll only talk about her first article. Because - listen - we are in the final straight line to drive the contractors out of all the hospitals in the country, following the ruling of the European Court of Justice, and after the decision of the Council of State, which annuls the possibility of new actions which may make contractors in competitions that will be reopened or already published. There are about ten to twelve hospitals, which had completed the competitions, had reached the successful tables and were blocked there by court decisions with suspensions. For example, it was Larissa, it's Atticon, and there are other hospitals like Sparta. Now, in all of this after that, the decision of the HR, we're taking inhibitions to the interruption they've done, to the temporary orders. Therefore, the procedure should continue properly. The law, however, provided that we could appoint from these tables up to 31-1 /2018. That creates a problem. Because we are taking the suspension, but if we do not make the change tabled by Mr Mandash now, we should have started a new competition from the beginning. So we say that, in all hospitals, which had reached a successful list and had the opportunity to appoint this staff for the two years under the employment contracts up to 31-12-2018, they can now do so by 31-12-2019. And so we will have much faster acceleration in the process of prosecuting the contractors. So we are accepting it with a legislative improvement. Because in the explanatory statement you speak for three months, while in the body of the amendment you speak for two months. And we replace it with the words 'for three months' for the extension of contracts to the CEDEFOP.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u122	We are also accepting Amendment No 2179/173, tabled by Mr Kamaroos and Mrs Theopevtou, for exemption from ship transit charges, which carry drinking on aerated islands, with some legislative improvements. After the words ‘driving water’ the words ‘in anhydrous islands’ are added. And a sentence is replaced by a phrase for port managers and - I do not read it all - "... and are excluded from the obligation to pay to operators of rights of use." We're accepting it with these two legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u123	So that is what I had to say in relation to our amendments. The rest of the answers to a series of questions, which have been heard about the substance of the donation, but also about some other things, said by the special speakers, the KINAL Parliamentary Representative, in relation to Attica, I will tell them in my speech at the end of the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary SPECIFIC PROVISIONS Requests for waiver of immunity: debate and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament Theodorou Fortsakis, Nikolaos Friends and Aristides Fokas. I should like to inform my fellow Members that we then have the supplementary agenda for the election of a Vice-President of Parliament. The Vice-President should be voted on by at least 75 Members. So the continuation of your presence in the Chamber is absolutely essential for the second procedure. It won't last long for the first process. I assure you. The Report of 15-5-2019 was announced by the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics, according to which the members of the Committee proposed by a majority that Mr Theodoros Fortsakis should not be removed from immunity. Similarly, the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics was announced in its Report of 15-5-2019, according to which the members of the Committee proposed by a majority that Mr Nikolaos Friendy's immunity should not be lifted. The Report of 15-5-2019 was announced by the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics, according to which members of the Committee unanimously proposed that Mr Aristides Fokas be refused immunity. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Parliament shall also decide, by raising the hands or by raising the request of the Prosecutor, in accordance with the procedure referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 108(1). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the groups or their alternates. I would like to inform you that the Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 7 March 2018 to activate the new system of electronic roll-call voting for this procedure. So since the debate on the cases of today's special agenda is closed, we will proceed to a roll-call electronic vote, as I said before. The first case concerns Mr Theodoros Fortsakis. Is there any colleague requesting the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u126	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u127	Mr. Fortsakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u128	Thank you very much, Mr President. I wanted to clear up this House in a few words on the subject of mine. I am accused of a flood, which I was supposed to have committed as far as I was dean, by paying the employees of the PPE 25,000 euros as an overtime allowance, which has been paid consistently since 2008 by all the advances. I would like to point out that for the same reason, the previous dean, Mr Peglerin, has been accused of being one of the dean, while for the previous ones there was no question, because it has been dropped. This is a fundamental issue in many respects. Firstly, because the 2016 Act legitimised these benefits. Secondly, because we have never been as a dean - all the senate has been referred - or as a consortium, we have decided on payment, because it has been a constant one since 2008. Therefore, this has never been discussed again. Thirdly, there was the trial for the rest of us, i.e. if I were not a Member, I would have been tried from the day before yesterday with the group of senators, and they were all acquitted. To come now, at this time, after five years, a story that considers the election time to have committed the crime of infidelity to the university is something that makes me deeply disturbed. I think that this case should have been closed already with the judgement of the court the other day. In addition, I would point out to the House that the Labour Inspectorate, who came to the university, and the Court of Auditors has judged all payments legally. And the prosecutor, who referred the case to the 20 teachers, notes in his text that he doubts whether there is a legal basis, but in any case, he prefers there to be a court of law, which also took place yesterday. The rest, it's in this House's judgment. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr. Fortsakis. The second case concerns Mr Nikolao Phile. Is there a colleague on the second request asking for the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u131	Mr. Friends has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. The case is a classic case, which is covered by the Constitution, regarding the right of Members to express their political opinion. These are the known tragic events in the neighbouring country, Albania and the execution of Katsifa by the Albanian authorities, under the well-known conditions, which I do not want to develop now. I would like to assure the Greek Parliament that with respect to the unjustly lost relative, with respect for the pain of parents, but also with full and clear demarcation of the practices of the occupation of Northcontinental albuminism, I have then expressed my opinion, in which I insist. I stress this: with respect to human pain and tragedy. This is, I repeat, an opinion in the context of my parliamentary duties and, therefore, is the definition of the provision of the Constitution that does not allow for a judicial investigation at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr. Friend. The third case concerns Mr Aristides Fokas. Is there a colleague on the third request asking for the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? There's no colleague. We would like to point out that the vote includes three different cases of the removal of immunity from Members. Every time, a case appears to be voted on on on the screen. To show the next or the previous one, press the arrow on the right or left side of the screen respectively. Make sure you've voted for all cases of waiver of immunity. After you have registered your vote, you may check it or even revise it by the end of the vote. For any question, please address the Bureau so that the officials concerned can assist you. I repeat, please, do not move away from the Chamber because immediately after we have the election of the Z Vice-President of Parliament. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, in which they give their vote. These votes will be taken into account in the count which will be followed. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u135	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of an electronic roll-call vote on applications for waiver of immunity from Members. On the first case by Mr Theodoros Fortsakis: A total of 143 Members voted. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 7 Members voted. On the question of immunity, the House voted against 134 Members. 'Communities' voted 2 MPs. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected. On the second case by Mr Nikolaos Friends: A total of 143 Members voted. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 9 Members voted. On the question of immunity, i.e. 'Notice', 124 Members voted. 'Communities' voted 10 MPs. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected. On the third case by Mr Aristides Fokas: A total of 143 Members voted. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 7 Members voted. They voted 133 MPs against the lifting of immunity. 'Communities' voted 3 MPs. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected. The result of the roll-call vote is recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, at this point we are entering the supplementary SPECIFIC ORGANIZATION The subject of today's special agenda is the election of a Vice-President of the Parliament. Following the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament with the VEK 92/A-26-2017 and in accordance with Articles 6 and 8, as amended by Article 8A as added, a Vice-President from the sixth and seventh parliamentary groups is to be elected. Accordingly, following the last amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament with the FEC 92/15-2019, a subparagraph has been added to Article 10(1), which states that in the event of the restructuring of a parliamentary group being dissolved, the new members of the Bureau shall be elected immediately, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 6 and 8, which shall apply to the remainder of the parliamentary term or regular session respectively. Therefore, the subject of today's special agenda is the election of the Vice-President of the Sixth Parliament to a force of a parliamentary group, according to the above mentioned articles in the Rules of Procedure, as amended and added by FEC 92/2A-26-2017 and FEC 72/A/15-2019. From the re-established sixth to a parliamentary group, Potami is proposed for the position of Z' Vice-President, George Mavrotas. The vote is roll-call and will take place electronically. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u138	I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, to which they give their votes. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u139	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u140	I have the honour to announce the result of the roll-call vote. [[CHANGING PAGE]] A total of 135 Members voted. For the post of Z' Vice-President, George Mavrotas received 133 votes. Two Members voted 'Paris'. [[Applause]] We congratulate Mr Mavrota and wish him good strength! Therefore, Mr. George Mavrotas, according to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, is elected as Z' Vice-President of the Parliament. The result of the roll-call vote is recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to confirm the minutes of today's sitting with regard to the election of the Z' Vice-President of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u142	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. We return to the debate of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Surrender of the donation contract between the Greek State, the Children's General Hospital of Pentelis and the contributors of Elizabeth Papagiannopoulou's covenant". We're continuing with Mr. Georgios Palley. We apologise to him for the delay. Mr. Pallie, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. There's no question of delay. After all, the procedures had to be done on time. [[At this point Mr Georgios Karasmanis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I won't need the seven minutes. I will only refer to a parliamentary amendment, with a general number of 2195 and a specialist 181, signed by Mr Thodoris Dritsa, Mr Hussein Zambeck and Mr Christos Simorelis, on the subject of 'a maximum time limit for pharmacy', which has three legs: the determination of the uninterrupted and equal access of the citizens to medicines, which are not independent of the coordination of pharmacy and operating hours. We therefore have a maximum operating limit, as defined by region and by the corresponding shops selling non-medical goods. We have the identification of the days - holidays, which are added to the specified holidays by law, and so this part of the rest of the shops is also adapted. In the third part, we have the possibility of paying half the amount of their participation, the patients, the insured, for the drugs, in which the new policy of the Ministry of Health is taking place and agreement is reached on the negotiation. This is the way in which the state returns the whole economy to the citizens. I will not say much, ladies and gentlemen. What I have to say, however, and I feel proud to have been a SYRIZA Member who, after many difficult years, has done so, is that in a sector that has been putting in place since 2010 and where thousands of scientists are employed, in the majority of them after ten years of young scientists who have not left the country, in a sector that has always learned to live with tax and insurance information, in a sector where all of our pharmacists have invested and enough money in previous years, to keep our drugs open, this government is coming, having saved the sector on the substance and doing those interventions with which we are regaining elementary dignity and elementary satisfaction for our lives. Why am I saying that? In our industry, ladies and gentlemen, directly from the entry of our country into the programmes, five-day work - apart from compulsory on-calls, because we have an obligation on our citizens to do both on-call and overnight stays - has been a six-day job. We will not have seven days - the amendment says so, Mr Foyla, explicitly and unequivocally, 'never Sunday' - and more hours of work. At the same time, quality, effort, effort and working hours for the huge problems, especially in the early years as pharmacists, together with great financial damage, have brought the industry to its limits. The goal was to break up. I don't know what mathematics they did then, if they counted the twelve thousand pharmacists and said "all right, we'll lose half the people, let them close, we don't care if our friends come." Today we are talking on a different basis. We are talking about today's reality. We come and identify a request from the Pan-Hellenic Pharmaceutical Association in relation to working hours so that we can plan from now on. I won't say any more things. I think that all of us and the Minister and all of us should vote on this amendment. What I have to say and assure the House is that the Greek and Greek pharmacists who are in every corner of Greece, in the very difficult years that have passed until this government comes and start to raise public health, have made primary care in many cases throughout Greece. Many of my colleagues - who are new colleagues - who need to support fellow citizens and advise them, have made them better scientists. So this provision also reintroduces a very basic thing: the consent of the responsible pharmacist, and not only of the owner, if it is not the pharmacy operator himself, the legal representative. Assent shall specify the operating hours of the pharmacy concerned. Because he is the right man, the scientist who can identify how many and what hours he will be working, and the rest of the workers in the field. I imagine the amendment will be accepted, Mr Minister. I would like from this point of view to give you the overall understanding of the sector that the political leadership of this long-term ministry - and I am sure it will continue to be the political leadership in the next term too - is the best leadership of the Ministry of Health that has ever passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr. Palley. Mr George Karasmanis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have come to the fore with great concern and frustration. The reason is the amendment which was tabled and which refers to the posting of nurses. I automatically remember an incredible unprecedented event. Soon I present it to you: For four years a family with two children has been living or rather growing in a nightmare. A mother nurse in a welfare centre of Chalkida, who since August 2015 has submitted to the 3rd Ministry of Health - an application - a secondment to Edessa for a co-service with her professional soldier husband. She has provided all necessary supporting documents, as well as military documents that allow her husband to stay permanently in Skydra and move with his own care to and from his service. Her request, however, was rejected. He also made a second request, but he hasn't got an answer. Really, where have you seized your left sensitivity? Who will pay the wages of four years to this woman who, in order to be close to her family, is forced to take unpaid leave? The army showed sensitivity. The government doesn't. I wrote to the Prime Minister. I also put two questions to the Prime Minister himself on the same subject. And one of the topical ones. Voice voice in the wilderness. It did not come to the House itself, but the Minister responsible himself did not come to give him an explanation of this immunity, unlike previous Prime Ministers, who, when their office received letters from citizens, were sent immediately to the Minister responsible for every matter, and even asking the Prime Minister for his reply to the question. I have personal experience on this. As Prime Minister Antonis Samaras, I was asked to answer five requests from citizens. You, the left, do not answer letters or Members' questions. For this reason, I will be tabling a letter and questions to the Prime Minister about the crime committed against the family I have just mentioned, as well as questions to the ministers on the situation in hospitals and unfortunately they are not answering. So where is the sensitivity, the culture and the humanity that a modern state should characterise, and in particular a state with a first-hand government? Where is the susceptibility to the fellow man, to health for care when our hospitals are severely suffering from tragic shortages in medical and nursing staff, infrastructure, equipment and supplies? Why do the relevant ministers, when I ask them to explain the unacceptable situation in the hospitals of Edessa and the Giannitsa, do they not respond? In the case of closed clinical trials, for the shortcomings of medicinal products, for the announcement of acquisitions of machinery or recruitment of necessary personnel that are never carried out. I have to say that the operation of hospitals is due to the over-tracking of medical staff, as well as to the assistance of local society as well as to donations from private and local associations. On this occasion I really want to express a great pleasure to the family of Elizabeth Papayannopoulos for this great donation. May this bright example be followed by all who have the potential to contribute to alleviating the suffering of our fellow humans. Ladies and gentlemen, I must confess that despite our ideological differences, I expected a government that describes itself as a left-wing government to have the concepts of democracy, political culture, social sensitivity, justice and humanity not only as a party banner and an election tool, but as an essential guide in the exercise of its policy. That with young people in politics perhaps our society would see something new. I must admit that I have been disproved, as has certainly been denied a large part of the people. I am sorry that I personally did not expect young people to behave in this way, to prove themselves to be so hard and irreversible in practice. I put the letter, questions to the Prime Minister and questions to the ministers about hospitals. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-seven students and students and seven educational attendants from the Kalambaka Municipal School and from the Municipal School of Saint Manto Rethymno. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Ioannis Rabbit, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u147	A few minutes ago, we witnessed once again the coup d'état that exists in the Greek Parliament... There was a question of a waiver of immunity. These are immunity waivers that none of you accepts. It is the waivers of immunity that the constitutional arch has long wanted to abolish for MPs and ministers, but which, when it comes to voting, all of you are voting against the waiver of immunity from Members' immunity. So let Greek citizens understand what work is being done by all of you, by all of the partners. There was therefore, among the others, an issue for the lifting of immunity by SYRIZA MP Friend for the deceitful and provocative statements he had made about nationalist Constantine Katsifa. It was about the murder of this new nation, the murder of this nation's hero, as the situation has evolved, who was coldly killed by Albanian murderers representing the state of Albanians. While the pile had not yet been given to its people, while its pile was concealed because they apparently wanted to hide some degrading elements that were there for the cold murder of Constantine Katsifa, the statements by SYRIZA MP, Friend, contained degrading things and was an insult to the dead and his honor. This lawsuit was filed by the deceased's parents. Not who and who. The deceased's parents filed this lawsuit. Then came the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay to ask for this matter, to waive the immunity of MP Friends and to be examined by Greek justice. What clearer and more honest than this Member, if he had nothing wrong and had nothing to do with the insult of the dead, to go to court and defend what he said. But once again the SYRIZA MEP, the former Minister and the Members of the New Democracy have covered this disgrace. Here we will once again draw the shameful theatre, which is played behind the backs of the Greek citizens. The New Democracy is supposedly fighting the SYRIZA government. We see he's all together. We see that the treasonal agreement of the Ambassadors on the substance together was voted on. The New Democracy would ask SYRIZA to pass it, so that they would not charge it themselves. We saw that in the proposals made by the Golden Dawn to resign the Members of the New Democracy and PASOK had all refused. We'd be the first to do it. Today, then, we come to this point - in mosquitos, of course, it will not be heard anywhere - that the New Democracy will come to cover Friends for the conjuncturing of the dead Constantine Katsifa. That's enough. That's as far as it goes. Let Greek citizens wake up. There's nothing else. There is a corrupt, rotten political system that has been riding us for forty-five years. Against this rotten political system, there is the fear of all of you. Only Golden Dawn exists. There's nothing else. You see, when you're all going to do each other, you find them. Only one of you can't find them. Golden Dawn. And you'll never find them. We'll never be like all of you. We are saying our views directly and clearly that we are defending. We're not saying any more to vote any more. That is what we are talking about to vote on. We've been prosecuted and we're going to suffer again. We are constantly under pressure and persecution for what we believe. In a pre-election period in the huge democracy of Greece the third political force is excluded. You don't want us to be the third political force. And you're editorially blocking us. They don't allow us to participate in the TV panels. We're not allowed to have any gatherings. We've got fifteen anticoncentrations where we're going. But that's where no one's talking. Not only does it speak, but it is in favour of and is actually reluctant to do so. So, Golden Dawn fights this whole system alone, with no money, no business without interests when the ordinary, popular fighters of the Left and of SYRIZA are in the best with their Prime Minister. In fact, it's a lot of fun in Piraeus. I shall refer to this area, because it has been an incident in the past few years. We are from the regions of Piraeus, which we are with the system and we do not defend the Greek citizens, but SYRIZA defends them, with Petros Kokalis. All right, then, with Petros Kokalis you defend the ordinary Greek citizens and we who live in Perama, Keracini, Nice and Drapetsona are with the interests and businessmen. But, laughter, really, it's falling with you! What do you say that and where you're hiding? And that's why you'll get the answer that's right for you in a few days, of course. So democracy in Greece, huge democracy. Only they don't have the right to speak to those who don't believe in you. They don't have the right. This is democracy. We have seen Kotzia, the enthusiast Kotzia, for whom we have again said that if at some point God brings them home, a national government will sit on the stool of the defendant, to see whether it was or not the Ambassadors' agreement was a betrayal. Because we say it was. You say it wasn't, why are you too afraid of this? So, a few days ago, when Kotzias was in Germany - because they don't only chase him in Greece, he has become an international reputation, where he has been chasing him, and Kotzias and all the "Ministers" and "Ministers" of SYRIZA, with ten degrees of MATs you can go - a Greek citizen who didn't devour him, just told him the word and said that what he did is betrayal - exactly what we had said in the House at some point and shutting us down microphones, calling him "fascist" and "racist" again. This is your democracy, both on the left and on the right, so we don't get out of some. It is the democracy that, when the Prime Minister went to the protester, who was also the Left - let them see, because everyone who is bitter about what is happening - and dares to protest, the police escorts of Tsipras, the Prime Minister, took his hand and trampled him. This is democracy! And you talk about democracy! Well, we'll say it specifically to the Greeks to make it clear. Democracy is for you everything that is for your benefit. What is not in your interest, the term 'fascism', 'racism', anything else. The laws and their constitution respect the Golden Dawn much more than all of you. Here's Rhodes, behold, and fuck. Do not you dare complain and speak of parliamentary and ministerial immunity. Don't you dare make fun of the world, because you might find it in here, but we'll always undo you. Whenever a serious case arises concerning the lifting of immunity Member or Minister from all "never" constitutional bow, all the rest of you are drowning it and not letting it go to justice. Because you know that if he goes to justice, many of you will be condemned by all of you who are here and mocking Greek citizens. So this is the democracy we enjoy. So we continue to fight and as Golden Dawn we will be here. We cannot hold any gatherings because you are trying to ban us, you are concentrating, you are not calling on the panels to speak and say our opinion, because you are very democrats. So we, who are your fascists, are once again provoking you at any time, wherever you want, with any of us, because we are ready for public debate. We'll drag you through our arguments. You know all this and you hide behind the labels of so-called fascism, 'nazism', I don't know what else, 'exports' that you can tell us and anything else, because you can't deal with us. I personally would be ashamed of myself if a political opponent were to speak to me and cause me so many times in public dialogue. And once I'd go face him. Of course you do not recognize the word 'dream', which is why you continue as you go. New Republic, PASOK, SYRIZA, KKE and all the rest of the parties on the side are one of the parties. You've done a speech, you're a beautiful company that goes out just what you want out. And when every Greek citizen dares to claim his rightfulness with a MP, then he meets a wall of bureaucracy and a wall set up by you themselves to avoid letting him be treated as an equal citizen. So dare to waive parliamentary immunity and the Friend and any other MP. We, anyway, do not have parliamentary immunity, nor do we want it. We used to say that we also agreed to sit on the stool, confronting everything we say about ideas and what we have supported so far. But you're afraid and hidden. You are not helping the work of justice or helping it just where it has to give you a small political benefit. Don't make fun of the Greeks anymore, we're taking you around. As far as the amendments and what you say you will now give to the Greek citizens are concerned, there has been a decision by both the Council of State and the prototypes of the Greek state, which says that it is imperative to turn back what you illegally stole from the pocket of the Greek citizen. And you are now coming to give one millimetre of what Greek justice requires you to give back and we are being played and Robin Hood. It's a joke to end this thing! The Golden Dawn is here, within the national Parliament, within the European Parliament, in local government, everywhere. We will give the fight for freedom of our country, for Greece and for orthodoxy. We're not giving you anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u148	Mr President, may I have the floor to say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u149	Mr Mandais has the floor for a comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u150	Apart from the other misery, which was said by the representative of the neonazi Golden Dawn, the "everything" Greek Parliament was said. I would ask that, Mr President, be deleted from the Minutes, at least.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u151	No, let it be stressed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u152	No, it's not like that. I think Mr. Maddash is right. It will be deleted from the Minutes, whether Mr Rabbit agrees or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u153	I don't agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u154	You don't agree, but it will be deleted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u155	Say I don't agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u156	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u157	Delete them!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u158	You erase!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u159	Mr Pitsirolas has the floor for some amendments and legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr President. I shall refer to a four-point amendment from the Ministry of Economy and Development. It's small issues. It is Amendment No 2192/188. The first article of the amendment allows the extrajudicial mechanism to regulate debts to tax and social security institutions established or born until 31 December 2018. The second article extends for a month the possibility for citizens who have already applied to join the Katselis Act to submit to the competent judicial authorities the certificate of debts of credit institutions. The deadline was up to 30 April 2019 and will go 31 May 2019. I would like to say, of course, that there are other provisions which provide that, because there is a delay in giving this certificate, there must be complaints of this kind, because they also have criminal responsibilities. The third article explicitly provides for the development bank which has recently been established not to be obliged to pay late payments in the event of a breach of guarantees in favour of credit institutions due to the late payment of the relevant guarantee obligation. A number of issues have arisen which are essentially referred to the jurisprudence and the case-law that exists has given a solution like the one we are going to give now. In cases where there is no complete file and a guarantee is forfeited, certain bank requirements are created, we say in this regard that there is no obligation on interest on late payment. I would like to say again that there are the judicial decisions which have so far been made in similar cases. In any case, they have given this answer, they do not charge interest on late payment. And finally, with Article 4, we are going to close an issue on how they get the contribution in kind they have deposited companies located in a business park set up by a body. This issue was solved by a 2013 law in the wrong way. Recently we changed the law and simplified the procedure. But there is one particular case for the Elefsina cotton park, where the established companies have paid the cash contribution and this contribution has been entered into a special account. But because of the wrong forecasts in the previous procedure they cannot take their own money and make the investments they have to make. So with this provision we resolve the issue so that people can get their money back and move on with investment in the park. These are the four points contained in the amendment we tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Mr. Pitsirla. The Minister for Health, Mr. Andreas Blondos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to table a ministerial amendment with a general number of 2191 and a special number of 177. What we are dealing with here is the matter of the Central Health Council. One thing is that we have a transitional period to go through with the regime that we have anticipated. In other words, the ERCF does not have the power to approve examinations, interventions, therapeutic actions and others that it has had up to now. This responsibility has been transferred to the Higher Health Council, which is a committee operating under the EEA, which is also the compensation body, and I think it is precisely what it needs to do with this role. The second responsibility which we gave to the ERCH, which, in fact, had nothing to do with the EEO, was the approval of medical conventions and of continuing medical training. Because we appreciated the need for a transitional phase in order to adapt these bodies to the new roles, we predicted this transitional provision. That is the issue. The second issue concerns the new qualifications of doctors who have been introduced and which, as you know so far - apart from the specialisation in in intensive and neogology that were unpaid - were unpaid, as were all specialties. So what we are now establishing is that specialization is paid off. We've opened the Vendalia, and we've approved many extra specialties with the dominant expertise in emergency medicine. We want to start directly at two training centres, in Heraklion and at Attica Hospital, the 30-six specialist doctors specializing in an emergency. So we want to use it as an incentive to attract this specialization, but also to the others that have been approved, such as the invasive cardiology that is expected whenever ‘yes, the invasive radiology that existed, the infectious, clinical microbiology, clinical pharmacology, the hospital dentist. There are too many specialties that have been approved by the ERCY at the time, there has been a recommendation to the Ministry and it has been accepted. So we think it is a way, firstly, to attract qualified doctors to specialise in public hospitals and, secondly, to retain doctors in our country, to limit Brain Drain and medical immigration as much as possible, giving opportunities for scientific development and specialisation to several doctors in our country. We therefore expect specialization to be paid for, of course, in the wages of qualified doctors, as it has been up to now. That is what I think is a strong incentive, provided, of course, these doctors have no other professional employment. In this way, we give doctors who have no organic relationship with the health system, whether underemployed or unemployed in the private sector, the opportunity to come to hospitals, education centres and to contribute to our efforts to upgrade public care.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u163	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u164	Here, Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u165	Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister a question about the amendment he has just tabled because, as the Minister said, two different issues are actually being dealt with. As far as the first concerning the ERCF is concerned, we as a New Democracy are negative. However, we are positive about specializations. If the government intends to break the amendment into two parts, we will be positive in the second and negative in the first. Otherwise, we will retain the'residents'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u166	They're both issues that have been handled by the ERCY. The proposal for specializations comes through the ERCF. I think it is a single amendment, and I would really like to hear why you disagree with having the ERCF a much more upgraded role for continuing medical education - that is entirely relevant to its role - and of course does not have a responsibility for costing and therefore for compensation for acts, which fall within the competence of the EEAS.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr. Minister and Mr. Kefaliannis. Ilias Kamatos, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think we have anything to say about the bill. We're all positive and successful. You will allow me to speak briefly on two parliamentary amendments that we have tabled. One is Amendment 173, and it concerns the transport of water to the inland islands with aquifers. More specifically, we propose that only those destinations for which the purpose of transporting water or ships carrying water should be exempted from transit charges. By the way, however, I should like to say that the object of this project is very limited - it concerns very few islands - and there will not be any sooner because it is a programme which we have implemented as a government, mainly through desalination, but also the transport of water by tubes which has effectively solved the problem of water supply on the islands, a problem which has troubled islanders for decades in the past few years, with what this entails. How many people can understand, so what was it for islanders to deprive them of water? Many times because the aqueduct was late or could not go because of time, we had the islands without water for days. This is about some who cannot understand the specific nature of the islands and the need to implement a specific island policy that equates the inhabitants of the islands or reduces differences - I would say - access to basic goods such as water and, of course, to many others, such as health, education, management, but now we are talking about water, which is one of the most basic goods. The second amendment, with a special 185, refers to the declarations on the register. Finally, the implementation of the Land register throughout the country is progressing. We're on the right track. The percentages are very good. In some areas, however, there are problems, due to the difficulties of the citizens in collecting the necessary documents and the deadline is not enough. We're still talking specifically about the islands. There are most delays and it is not accidental, because someone has to travel from island to island to go to do the statements, not everything is done electronically, and they need not only to make their statement, but to collect the supporting documents, contracts, etc. And you know how difficult this is for old property, much more when they're property that has arisen through sales, through some monasteries. On the islands there are these cases and they have caused delays. We therefore propose that, because each region has a different date, it should be possible for the Minister with a ministerial decision to extend up to six months in these cases. Again, it is a necessary measure that concerns the islands much more. But it is not just for the islands, it is also for other regions of our country. That is why I would ask colleagues to vote for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr. Cameroon, SYRIZA MP. Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u170	We are talking today about another donation that is valuable to the national health system, ladies and gentlemen, that of Elizabeth Papayannopoulos. And we must say that we also need donations and actions which show that the greatness of some people is manifested in a way that helps the national health system at a time when we also need donations. On this occasion I would also like to thank the donors to the Trikalon hospital who helped upgrade the cardiological clinic and improve the artificial kidney unit. I want to thank them for helping all that we are doing so that a national health system that by 2014 was under a collapse can clearly have signs and upgrades and a course toward what we consider to be our duty in quality integration. I would also remind you that in addition to these donations, which have been passed here as sanctions by Parliament, we also have the possibility of seeing accompanying acts carried out by self-government bodies, such as the Attica Region, which is very helpful in the logistics of our hospitals, in building upgrades, in actions which contribute together with all that the Ministry of Health makes, in order to make this upgrade visible. Such an upgrade also took place at the Atticon Hospital, which was made an intervention by Mr Kegeroglou on the fact that for many years the Atticon Hospital has not had a magnetic tomographer. We can tell you that, following cooperation with the Director of the 2nd Health Region within the days, the installation of the MRI in Attica hospital is expected. We must also say that everything that is being done in this period, such as the upgrading of primary health care as an important reform, and the fact that we specifically cover the intervention in autonomous emergency departments and that crises are now taking place, which will make a significant contribution, as is the communication on health centres, and the new notice of a thousand medical staff posts and a thousand five hundred staff and other staff in 2019, are facts that can lead us to a safe conclusion. They lead us to conclude that at this time when we see that our country is making considerable efforts to follow all that the new era has as potential for both our economy and our budget resilience, we must do so in a way that really makes us proud of what is being done in the National Health System. I would also like to say that the fact that amendments are being tabled in this sitting are the result of events. The heavy legislative work we have done in the previous period and we have before us and the fact that we want to put down a draft law for the overall institutional upgrading of the national health system, as well as interventions in continuing medical education and specialisations and how to organise medical conferences, the new role of the central health board, the medical scientific companies, are issues that show why some amendments are coming to today. Some of them also contribute very substantially to what is our duty, the task of discussing this bill, to upgrade health services as a whole. So some of the amendments that are coming, but also the one I tabled now, on the occasion of the fact that the evolution of the CICP to the National Agency for Public Health enables us to say that medical staff can only be made available to units of special infections, this fact being able to cover both nursing and other staff, so that they do not have the temptation of some administrations or in total those who direct the national health system to use this staff in other needs, which are still enough. On this occasion, I would also like to say that it is challenging for the President of the New Democracy to have the use of private interests, private management in public hospitals. It is challenging because we have tried the status of managers and Henry Dunan and the CEDEFOP and many other spaces with very negative results, because private interests have in mind how to absorb valuable resources for the National Health System. It is clear that a government that should aim to upgrade the health system by investing in what is a fundamental human right should not grant funds to private interests. We can see and see what is now happening with the national health supply agency's capabilities to be able to cover transient tests. And there the bulging of some costs leads essentially to an inability to serve everyone. So we have to come to an understanding. We need managers, we need technocrats who have and have in mind that it is the National Health System that mainly contributes to the right to health. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I should like to close, Mr President, on a point you have made. A colleague here mentioned the neighbouring country, a friendly country which also enables us to defend its airspace. It is unacceptable during the Turkish threats to be called the 'Skopje country'. I would also like to point out to Mrs Gennimata and the party's leadership that the Change Movement must take a clear stance on this issue. We cannot follow some nationalist cries that do not recognise that our country now in the Balkans plays a leading role, a hegemony role, and that helps good relations with the neighbouring country, with northern Macedonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr Papadopoulos, MP of SYRIZA. The reason for seven minutes is SYRIZA's MP Mr. Theodores Dritsas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u172	Thank you very much, Mr President. I agree and commend the latest report by my colleague and comrade Sakis Papadopoulos on the issues of northern Macedonia. I shall now proceed to the item on today's agenda. It is reasonable, but no matter how reasonable it is, that all the wings of the Parliament accept the donation contract between the Greek public, the General Children's Hospital of Pentelis and the contributors of Elizabeth Papagiannopoulou's covenant to restructure and renovate the second Paediatric Neurological Clinic of the second floor of the General Children's Hospital of Pentelis. And it is reasonable and positive, because when a donation is not appropriate, it is part of a long cultural tradition that characterises the course of modern Greek society and has recorded many times and at critical times very positive examples of social sensitivity and behaviour either from rich or poor. Donors and even many of the benefactors were many and have been registered in this rich cultural tradition of the modern Greek state, the modern Greek society, the modern Greek nation. This is the very good thing, even if we are defending it - and it is right to defend it - that a modern democratic state must meet the needs of citizens, with regard to the health system, with health infrastructures, with the services provided, to all citizens free of charge. This may be a goal, in fact, undeniably, always timely and always pressurised, but one is not revoking the other and there is no reason why an asterisk should be placed, with regard to this reality, when it is recorded. Where there is a problem, however, some famous donations have obvious feasibility and selfishness. We have in Piraeus in recent years such samples of writing by a donor - an oligarch, who thinks he can buy out the city with measurable gifts, but also of poor quality donations, which are constantly being promoted in a challenging way as something very important and very special that the city of Piraeus must thank him! No, that's not the tradition of Greek society. This is not the tradition of Greek culture. So I stop here, precisely because this donation that the House accepts today and ratifys the contract is part of the very positive records of the course of Greek society, at least two hundred years now or even more, before the establishment of the Greek state. In addition, I want to make two references to two amendments. One is Minister of State, the Ministry of Shipping, with regard to the extension of the deadlines for declarations of participation in the electronic register of private pleasure boats, professional tourist boats and pleasure boats. The deadline for these, although significant progress has been made, as the Minister has provided with figures, is nevertheless necessary. What I am told by the Greek Parliament is that when as Minister of Shipping, Genoa and February 2015, I started with the services to run this already legislated projection, we saw very quickly that, apart from the fact that no technical processing had taken place, it was very difficult and had many obstacles to a self-evident choice of improvement, modernisation, regulation, reorganisation, reorganisation of public administration in a very important sector, maritime tourism, particularly in the summer months. You cannot really imagine how many obstacles we had from the inadequacy and inefficiency of technical preparation of services and prerequisites to respond to them and, on the other hand, how many obstacles those who did not want to go forward and who still put them in place. Even so, for the digital modernisation of the Greek state in the direction of transparency, the battle is a battle for democracy, a battle for socialism, a fight for the whole of the Greek society, so it must be recorded and not as a trivial detail. The second part of this amendment promotes and accelerates a choice that had been initiated since then, the unification of the internal affairs services of the Security Bodies, the Hellenic Police, the Fire Corps and the Port Corps - Greek Coast Guard. It's a very important step. There may be objections about how the Port House will participate in this new body and indeed have its role. I have particular sensitivity, as you know, on these issues, and obviously we must all contribute to making these things the best possible. This uniformity, however, is really a part of this very important issue, and I think it will yield very much. Why can't such services by the Greek state in these critical areas be fragmented, isolated from each other, as if we were in separate states. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I move on to one last amendment from what I want to comment on, a parliamentary one this time, tabled by three fighters, SYRIZA MPs, George Pallis, Zabek Hussein and Christos Simorellis, and I have had the honour and joy of signing it. It refers to the maximum working hours of the pharmacy and raises an issue as to which holidays each year, in addition to the planned nights and holidays, cannot open the pharmacy - on Friday, 25 March, on Monday, Easter - clearly describes all these specific dates - and then, in order to select operating hours, in accordance with the regulations which have taken place and changed the issues of each pharmacy's working hours, in order to overcome their working time, it is not enough for the legal representative of the pharmacy, with the institutional changes that have been made in this area as well as with the consent of the pharmacist responsible. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is extremely important even though corrective action is small. "The medicine by hand pharmacist" is a doctrine for the proper provision of pharmaceutical services to Greek citizens. It is not possible for the pharmacy to be transformed into a commercial business, evacuated and alienated from its scientific function, and indeed, as a primary health care body. It has traditionally happened in our country. And now, at the initiative of the Ministry of Health leadership, institutional processes are being promoted, so that the incorporation of pharmacy into the general primary health care system can also be institutionalised. It is not possible to eliminate the pharmacopoeia scientists, so there is no reality and there are capitalist compositions for the operation of pharmacy. [[At this point the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios GEORGIADEIS, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] Our government, despite the pressures of the OECD toolbox, etc., has done so in a detailed and very systematic manner in cooperation with the pharmaceutical associations and federations and has achieved regulation of balance of interest and very important. The third sub-paragraph of this amendment concerns medicinal products, which will have resulted in the negotiation process, the institutionalised proportion of patient participation is limited to half and by decision of the Minister for Health the amount of patient participation that may and may be reduced for generic medicinal products. I hope that the ministers will accept this amendment and open new roads very important to critical - not total, but fine - areas of improvements which are now step by step - our Government, as in all other areas, must succeed in this area. I also congratulate the Ministry's leadership, precisely because it is going very systematically in this direction. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, my colleague. And to avoid misunderstanding by other colleagues, I would like to say that, because of the amendment, this tolerance has been achieved. Mr Paulakis has asked for the floor on his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u174	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u175	Minister, I'm sorry. Wait a minute. Here, Mr Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u176	I'm only gonna need ten seconds. We are asking, I think, for the other Members to have no objection - the ministers to point us out which parliamentary amendments are acceptable to us, so that we can know. Mr Paulakis said when he developed the amendments, he accepted a Member of the European Parliament. We must also know about the other amendments which are, how many, whether they are accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u177	Come on, Minister. I imagine that the Minister in his speech will probably also be placed in some of them. It may be in his speech that some comments on the amendments, as Mr Lambroulis said. Here, Minister, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u178	With little tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u179	There's already tolerance in the tenth. However, go ahead and see it along the way.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u180	Excuse me for a second, let me get my papers fixed. Starting with my speech, I too would like to thank the executors of Elizabeth Papayannopoulos's covenant, which died in 2011 and with her will, among other things, left a property in Philothi, which was sold in order - and as she laid down in her will - to build a new wing at the "Pedelis Children's Hospital" in her memory. Upon taking office of the administration, which we appointed in Sismanoglio - Amalia Fleming, Children of Pentelis, we were informed by the executors of the covenant for their will. We saw, however, that the amount resulting from the sale of the property, about one million euros, was not enough to build a new wing. And after appealing to the court of Appeal - which explained and considered that the will of the available alternatively is satisfied - we proceeded with the renovation, reconstruction and modernisation of the wing of the second Pediatric and Neurological Clinic of the General Children's Hospital of Pentelis. We have dismantled and proceeded with the whole process. And I must congratulate the hospital administration on this, because the donation and legacy procedure and a series of other things are very heavy. And so we are happy today to ratify the donation contract at the "Paidon Pentelis" by Elizabeth Papayannopoulos, with executioners of the covenant, Ioanna Konstantinos and George Papayanopoulou. Once again, thank you. It will really strengthen the public health system with this, offering better terms and conditions of care to the small patients who are hospitalized at the "Pentelis Children". On the occasion of this, I would like to respond to something, as I did in the committee. I also think that in plenary they should be answered in order to hear some things. Because in the last few days after this indescribable position of Chief of Officerial Opposition, Mr. Mitsotakis, in his morning interview, in relation to his plans and visions about the health system, there has been a war of lies and make news of a series of things. They are trying on the one hand to ease what Mr Mitsotakis said and on the other hand to disperse false news, make news about a series of aspects and malfunctions of the public health system, but - as I will prove in my speech - they are all lies. And by exploiting the superpower they have at the media level, especially on television and on the press and on the Internet, they think that by dispersing these news they can convince people that it is another thing that they have seen, lives and feels in the public health system in recent years and that it is the truth that they are spreading through the media that they control. In particular: we have heard - and it has spread a great deal - that the offer of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation has been lost! We heard it, it spread! There are still people asking me today. We've responded in detail and we'll go back to it. Before I say about the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, it was our government that unleashed the Malinaki legacy with the 5 million euros, which since 2009 has been sitting in Chania. And the hospital psychiatric hospital is starting to build. We have resolved all the points of order. Secondly, we accelerated and completed the donation of the National Bank to the "Evangelism". He had started, he was stalling, and now we're done. We unblocked Maria Verotio's donation to the Kefalonias hospital. We were the ones who signed up for some time ago - and we are making a small change to the labour regime today - the donation for the National Transmissible Center of the Foundation "Alexandros Onasis", which will be built next to the Onassis Foundation. This case isn't new as far as I know. It had happened to the oldest governments, why hadn't they? To tell things by their name and to learn the truth. This donation hadn't gone any further, because the transplant center would be stuck at the Onasio Cardios surgery center. The Onassis Heartsurgery Center, however, delivered it to us, ladies and gentlemen, in 2015 with 115 million euros. I repeat, you have only handed it over to us by EUR 115 million! How much does the Omegario owe today? Zero. Can I repeat this, can I hear it? Zero! Why did that happen? Because we put it in central government agencies. We have financed it with about EUR 70 million from the programme overdue and with about EUR 20 million from the EEAS for former EEA debts, the insurance funds to it. Thus, with about EUR 70 million, it has been possible, after negotiation, to put off a debt of EUR 115 million and, of course, to implement it over the last three years. And for the first time in 2017 he came into an account and in 2018 the budget also has a positive mark. This is why the "Alexandros Onassis" Foundation agreed to proceed with the donation of the transplant centre. I'm talking about putting things in place. With that, then, we have 1-0!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u181	I'm sorry, Minister, to make a statement to this House and then you're on. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELEIGERIOS VENIZELOS", thirty-nine students and students and four teachers attending the National School of Naples Laconia. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u182	I continue with the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. What did the Stavros Niarchos Foundation propose to us? To tell the whole story, so that the Greek people can hear it again and listen to it again. Because - as I have said many times - the repetition is the mother of learning. Because it is easy for you to throw a word on the media and to reproduce it. It's like the other night we lived last night, because if I get into temptation, I can't! Yesterday they called “unknown - unknown! - European official'. All televisions and sites were satisfied that the government's positive measures, i.e. the 13th pension, the reduction of HICP, the reduction of VAT, 120 instalments, etc. They undermine the stability of the euro area, as a European official says! And it spread that thing everywhere. Why don't they tell us his name? Does he have the same name as a chief banker named Yiannis Stournaras, who also expresses his concern at every turn of the government? He expressed it yesterday. Another man who, in what he has predicted, has fallen in! It's out there, of course! And he also found himself a week before the elections to express his concern! He's the one who said we wouldn't get out on the market, we need a credit line, etc. The parentheses are closed. Now we're going to the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. The "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation came to us and said: "I want to give 200m euros and rebuild the "Evangelism" in a decade. We replied with Andreas that we do not need this, because we have strengthened the "Evangelism" with various things. The donation of the National Bank has been completed, there have been some reconstructions, we have planned some things from the Public Investment Program, we finance a great renewal of its equipment - I will say some things after - from the Attica Region programme, we are also in the EIF some things. We need the following: First, a hospital in Komotini, which is the oldest hospital in the country, and for national reasons a new one should also be created there. Secondly, we need a pediatric hospital in Thessaloniki. Thirdly, we need repair and reconstruction and the purchase of new airborne instruments in the EKA. We've made progress in modernising the fleet. Beyond the donation he made with his hundreds of forty - three ambulances, we've bought another two hundred so far and there's another hundred on the road. We need your airplane equipment. Because we received one thing we had helicopters and we didn't have maintenance contracts. Do you understand that? They did a market of six helicopters, they dropped the three, because they were flying private corporations, "ALITALIA" - the private sector that knows about management, etc., from time to time, but they don't know - we mourned dead and for the other three we didn't have maintenance contracts. We need this. So it's the third thing we asked them to do. Fourthly, we want, because we have launched a programme, set up a pet scan, positron emitters, a machine which helps very much in the diagnostic and therapeutic treatment of malignancies, we need and we have planned to buy some of our own money and we told them: we want you to fill us in, and we need to complete the market for cyclotrons, i.e. machinery that produce the radiopharmaceuticals used by the pet and used elsewhere, so that we can complete what we have planned. And he says yes to all fours. All I'm saying now is over 250 to 260 million, maybe more. And we said two other programs. It is an educational programme, which is about dealing with the injury, which we said would be financed by the Onassis Foundation and then by us, five years later, from the Ministry of Health's reserve. For all medical students who end in all the schools of the country the Foundation will fund them the Advance Trauma Life Support seminar, a very good educational program. I am one of the first to do this in 1996 and we were then paying for it, as trainees, from our pockets, from EUR 200 to EUR 250 at the time with today's money. So we said that the Stavros Niarchos Foundation will be funded by all those graduates of medicine want it, so that they can go to rural hospitals, etc., to the service of the countryside. Also, that he will finance the retraining of some five - year - deep surgeons who will be trained in trauma surgery in South Africa with a very trauma. And we said that the ATLS piece will be taken over by us from the reserve. All this goes on, move on and implement properly. For the hospital in Komotini, the plans are over. The Paediatric Hospital of Thessaloniki has finished all the property issues. All the studies in Komotini are over. In pediatrics we are in the midst of studies about. We've solved the property problems next door. We also take the next place to create a parking lot because that belongs to us and we grant it to do so. With the helicopters, we've come to the conclusion that the repair will be made by the Hellenic Defence Industry. Because we had a number of middlemen and middlemen who wanted to bite, too. But it's gonna happen there. And we order both planes. And there is one last educational programme, which was a programme for the training of staff in the treatment of intra-surface infections. What was 3 to 5 million in 300 is all it has not gone through. Why? There is a parallel program right now from the former ERIC and now EACH that is in some hospitals in the country, and there is a discussion to avoid doing the same job twice and how it will go ahead. That's what's happened. And for this part, the 3 to 5 million to the 300th of the donation that is normally implemented, filled with your newspapers and sites "loss the public donation of Niarchus". That's the two-zero.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u183	"Subject to the incapacity of the Ministry" write.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u184	Yes, because of the Ministry's incapacity. I told you the story. You don't want to hear the truth. Let's go down. What's out yesterday again? I don't sue. You've done me three hundred. We don't sue, me or Andrew, but here's a matter. Go out again and say the reheated history of Arta. Because the Minister of Citizen Protection - I will say it by their name -, Olga Gerovasili, as a doctor, worked in the private sector and had a private diagnostic centre there, refilled your paid media with titles "not working CT in Arta because Gerovas has a CT out-of-CT to covet". How low are you going to fall? Since March 2018, there has been a new state-of-the-art CT at the Hospital of Arta with money that we put in, because the previous one had broken down. What are these things? That's what you think you're gonna win elections with? Since March 2018, it has been operating properly. In 2017 it was decided to replace because it was not repaired and we did it. Another thing: Mr. Kegeroglu comes out yesterday and says about the MRI in Attica. I didn't hear from the Minutes of the House. I read -- and my partners -- so I answered. He said in the last two years, the MRI's not working in Atticon. That's what they're writing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u185	He's been saying since 2014. He also tabled the minutes of yesterday's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u186	Mr Bargiotta, I would refer you to the websites which say that Mr Kegeroglu said 'two years'. If he said "since 2014" he did well. But what the websites wrote is that he said in the last two years it hasn't worked. Be careful, in February 2014 -- to tell everything to the end, I won't let anything fall down - is damaged by the MRI of Attica Hospital. From February 2014 to October - November 2015, nothing is going on at all. You've been running for one year in these two years. We in the other had the neck nipple until October - November. I have said that many times since October, we began to govern as we wanted and the compromise that had been made. We order the beginning of 2016. "Tell us guys, what about this? Is it repaired or not repaired?’ So they tell us, and after burning, they saw and looked, because it's old, this machine, that it wants to repair 700,000 and "we give you," he says, "guarantee for a couple more years to find spare parts". And I say to them, children, it can't be. Finally, we can't. And we were looking to figure out where we're going to fund it. So we finally decided - and here I am given another chance and I will say it. Because we're pulling these out in press releases, but you're not telling them. You see them, but you don't reproduce them - and we put it from February 2017 in the program with the Attica Region, with the cooperation we signed with the 40 million in the equipment. And even we don't just put a magnetic tomograph on. We put on an open-ended magnetic tape so the obese can do as well. He's the only one in the West Attica in a public structure. You're going to tell me why he hasn't come in yet? Yeah, that's what it's all about. And I'll tell you why it's our fault. Because in this competition we did something that we will do from now on in all the competitions. We lost a year of the companies' objections. This tender has been completed, the executive contracts have been signed and this time, and in very short time, it will be installed there, as will many other machinery, no matter how much it has been made public. And he hasn't been made public for two reasons. First of all, because 'Durou's fault is all'. It is the first region - the second is Karupidis in western Macedonia - that gave money to the health system from its own resources, the region's own resources, not from the NRP. It is the first district, followed by Karupidis in western Macedonia. The first reason why we do not know is that "Durou is to blame for everything". The second is because it is the most essential blow in the struggling process we have done four years in the Ministry of Health. Why? It was the first tender that we practically abolished the stage of opening the technical tenders. What's happened so far? You were making a competition. We said that we have exhaustively detailed and scientifically documented technical specifications. That's what we want, and let's go at the cheapest price. Not the best, but the cheapest. I want these and whoever gives it to me cheaper than he does, I'll take it. What did we say? That when they submit the tenders, we won't go to the stage of opening the technical tenders. Each one, that is you, Mr Barriotta, who has a company, you, Mr. Mavrotas, who has another, you, Mr. Kefaliannis, who has a third, will sign a responsible statement to me, - I say, for example, I didn't say that you have...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u187	Schematics.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u188	So you, Mr. Mada, who has a company, will not bring me the technical elements of the machine, you will sign me a responsible statement that the machine you offer me meets the technical specifications. So we do not have the stage of opening the technical tenders that was made by the big hai-hoi with the complexity, catching the committees, doing that, finding papers, etc. A year ago, a competition has been lost, because they had not gone, it says, criminal records and seven members of the company's board of directors, and not just the director and something like that. So let's go to economics and see who the cheapest is: Mavrotas, Barriots, Kefaliannis or Mantas? Let's just say he's Mr. Barriot. Very good. You're the cheapest, and you get it. Now get me the technical specifications to check them out, you alone, not the rest of us. I'm checking them, what you understand is much faster, that is to check one of the fifteen and if your machine meets it, of course, take it, browse the money, and we'll have the machine. But if he doesn't meet them, I'm going to the next direct, so let's tell Mr. Mavrota, who's the next cheapest. What's the matter with you? That's where you get something, and that's why they appealed. I don't give you the guarantee because you've signed a responsible statement that your machine meets the qualifications. I'm not giving you the letter of guarantee. That's where he caught the corporations. He - and I announce it from now on - will be how we get out of the competitions from now on. That's why the "Atticon" and much more to get in, because we had near about a year, nine months' proceedings with administrative appeals, appeals against the S.E. We've reached the S.T.E. too. He was right to tell us: you were right to do so. Therefore, this also creates forthright competitions in all ministries for equipment, for it speeds up too fast and cuts up a period of time when the great lushover took place in the procurement process. This is why, as in the 'Atticon', as in others, it has delayed implementation. Finished this, executive contracts have been signed for some time, and now the facilities of these machines, which are 40 million...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u189	Mr. Polakis, you've reached twenty-two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u190	I wanted to respond in detail, and that was an opportunity, because look at...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u191	But you can't hear me. You've reached twenty-two minutes, so you understand that tolerance is not just exhausted. Unless Mr. Blondie doesn't talk. If the Minister doesn't talk, we don't have any issues, talk more. Because it's going to take a corresponding time, you know that...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u192	Mr President, I don't want much longer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u193	In the end, I'll talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u194	All right, keep going, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u195	What I want to say to you - and I particularly address the New Democracy - is that what your leader said does not gather, no matter how much you try to blur it with things. But, before I go to your Chief, I would like to refer to another terrible, terrible, what has been said about Lefkada, that the hospital has opened up dangerously. Instead of saying, well, that we opened a diamond, an ornament really with a hundred and twenty-nine beds, which we took without having predicted in the study a number of things, no new artificial kidney machinery, no CT where it comes from, no road contract, no occult drainage, and we ended up with Mayor Draktonidi and were implemented, what did you find to say? Hazardous, he says, the transfer of patients of pathology to the Hospital of Lefkada to cut ribbon Tsipras! But don't you feel ashamed of this thing? The first patient to enter was a newborn child and wish the family with whom he has to live. That was the first patient in the hospital and was a pig. Instead of saying that, you go out and say that we did, he says, dangerous patient transport to cut the ribbon, Tsipras -- aren't you ashamed? - when he had the Lefkada Hospital of nineteen doctors and now has forty-two, when he has been reinforced to staff and we get him a new CT, when the equipment he has is really excellent and even has such an installation that does not exist anywhere in Greece, does he have a monitoring system for patients who are being treated by the CT in the pathway at the pathological clinic, can they watch them while walking from above to see if they have any arrhythmia?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u196	(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u197	There's not that thing. The Kappa Tau made it. I'm saying that to finish this matter. So I go to New Democracy: what Mr Mitsotakis said does not gather. I will not say now about the seven-day job, others have answered it. I'll tell about his health vision. He tells us: I have no objection to having a private person run the management, a manager who has the logic of cost-benefit in public hospitals. Let me remind him that this model where it was implemented has led to a social catastrophe. The result of this model is seen above the bridges of the homeless in large cities, a world that threw it into the social and health margins. Let me remind you that's how we were advertised, PASOK, then with Mr. Papadopoulos, that I'm going to put managers in hospitals. Can I ask you something? These managers who then entered, in 2001 and 2002 and then continued with the Karamanlis government and with the New Democracy government, did not contribute to the country's bankruptcy? Wasn't it a manager? Yes, cost-benefit was. A lot of them, Mr Barriotta, who were hired then, on and afterward, on Mr Papadopoulos, said that they had knowledge and had the London School of Economics and that they were also different. It is all these who contributed with their own port to collect the 85 billion dollars of country's overpricing and debt in the health sector. Yeah, we didn't put on what you're saying, but you know what? We have received hospitals with 735 million euros debts and they currently have 250 million positive surpluses in a time of crisis, during a memorial period, with a suffocating nipple of lenders over our head. We had no managers, but we had people who understood, had a political criterion, and these are the best managers, because they are serving a political plan to rectify public health and not to give it to the private sector, as you did. That's the first thing we don't get together. The second thing that didn't gather was this terrible thing about...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u198	Look, Minister, please hang up with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u199	This is what I shall close, Mr President. Again there will be no objection: why buy, says, magnetic and axial? We must, he says, get a private person, but we won't put him like that. This is much more advanced, i.e. Milton Friedman in front of him is child toothpaste, so I don't put a private person in the hospital. I'm putting a private person, I'm giving him the machine that's in there or go on, get his own, and I'm giving him the workers, not having any labour costs. This is another stage of capitalism, not even totalitarian capitalism. It's more than that. It is not a State monopoly, it is not even the sovereignty of the multinationals, it is not a totalitarian one, it is something more. So, why pay him? Because he's handsome? Machine doesn't take, workers don't pay, EOPY pays him, because he's handsome, and he knows about management! And that's what they call a vision of upgrading public health. He's not gathering. I wanted to know, does he believe it? I guess he does. But if he believes this thing is dangerous, because we'll also buy magnetic and axial. We're already buying too many. I'll tell you some numbers. Projects under way are 35m euros and many have been completed since 2015 from co-financed projects through regions. What we gave from the Ministry of Health's reserve is EUR 30 million. For the first time in the history of this Ministry, its reserve was used for equipment and upgrades and opening sections throughout Greece. Thirdly, what we have given from the Ministry of Health's Public Investment Program is EUR 40 million from national funds to too many hospitals all over the country from 2015 to today and 3.5 million from the result of the anti-cancer fundraiser.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u200	Minister, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u201	I shall conclude, Mr President. You were supposed to have done it. How did we say it? - that neoplasm record and the air of the nostril, Abrahamopoulos. These 3.5 million remaining became machines in the anticancer hospitals. The Ministry of Finance gave EUR 23 million - and this is something that has not been heard, although we have received a press release - from the overrun in 2018. Mr. Juliarakis, the Treasury gave 23 million euros. The 7 at the "Savvas", from 5 to "Theatrice", "Metaxas", and about 1 million at the Laikos for renewal of equipment. We've made five times a press release, but it hasn't played anywhere. And there are 23 million more in progress than the share of the Ministry of Health, 210 million euros that have been implemented or implemented. It is the largest upgrade program for ESY infrastructure, for ESY employees to work, to pay the hospitals and have reached 670 million from 2015 to 670 million real funding for the ESY hospitals in 2018. These are the infrastructures that change the image. You will, however, catch the window in Rhodes, the flat tire on the highway of an ambulance, what my colleague said earlier about a transfer to the Ministry of Labour. It's probably at the Cure of Chronic Diseases, Mr. Karasmanis, I think from Chalkida, you're getting a case like this. It helps the media to make the hair not but the hair, and you don't see the ocean that passes next door. People see it, though, and they understand it. That's why the square of Aigaleo was filled the other day, while the Post Office Square in Larissa and not the central didn't fill even though it's much smaller. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u202	For the amendments, Mr. Minister, won't you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u203	Oh, yes, for the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u204	After thirty minutes, Mr President, will he also say about the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u205	All right, all right, all right, all right, I understand, with your health, Mr. Blondie will call it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u206	Mr. Xanthos pledged to close the bill and speak less. The Minister will now tell them. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u207	Four parliamentary amendments are accepted. It is the amendment with a general number 2195 and a special 181, on the pharmacy's ceilings. Amendment No 2199 and Amendment No 185, authorizing the possibility of an extension to the time limit for the submission of declarations of registered rights. The amendment, with a general number 2201 and a special number 187, staffing the company under the name “ANALYSIS REPAYMENT S.A.”, until it joins the single mobility system and the amendment with a general number of 2202 and a specific 188 staff for special infections units.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u208	There's two more...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u209	We have already accepted the other two, namely the general number 2179 and the special number 173 and the number 2189 and the special number 175.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its reports on the draft laws of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: A. JUDGMENTS OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE AND THE COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Azerbaijan on environmental protection’. B. Other: ‘Preparation of the Nagoya Protocol on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable distribution of the benefits arising from their use in the United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity’. Mr. Kefaliannis has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Deputy Minister, when the Chief of Police Vice-President said that Tsipras is Paulakis and Paulakis equals Tsipras, he did not mean that you should speak as much as the Prime Minister speaks but let the tolerance that exists and is the last meeting before the European elections, and I think the Bureau has shown good tolerance to hear all the views in here. Ladies and gentlemen, because it is precisely the last sitting from what this House seems to be before the European elections, you will allow me, as usual, to address some issues of topicality before entering into the amendments, since our rapporteur has referred to the draft law. We saw a few measurements yesterday - polls showing, in my opinion, two very important issues. First of all, that Mr Tsipras' attempt to respect the vote of pensioners, with the various pre-election allowances he gave, has fallen into the void, and that is clear, because the Greeks and Greeks now know that the present government is the one that cut off by the EASA, which reduced the new pensions by 40% and of course they know very well that two hundred and fifty thousand of our fellow citizens are still waiting to get their pension from the huge delays that have been in existence lately. A second, in my opinion, very important element, which yesterday's measurements have shown, and which, I repeat, is a tool that is useful for us, but in any case shows some things that can be very secure, is that citizens are no longer persuaded by Mr Tsipras and the government to twist Mr Mitsotakis's words. And it seems that the last struggling tricks of the government before the elections on 26 May also fall into the void. We as a New Democracy in the last nine days that have remained until the elections and runs over the whole territory, pass a clear message, condensed in very few words: New and well paid jobs, less taxation for all and a restoration of the sense of security for citizens. Because many times, ladies and gentlemen, in discussions both in the panels and in the House, but even in the cafes, we are told 'Where do you put the ball of European elections?', I reverse the question and say that Mr Tsipras from Parliament had already said that for him the European elections are a bet that should not be lost. In fact, he said that one in a million will not be defeated in the European elections. I would also remind you that in 2014, when the Samara government was defeated in the European elections at the time, the very next day it had gone to Mr Papoulias, the President of the Republic, and had called for national elections. So, by analogy, what we believe the Prime Minister should do, even if he loses one vote, is the next of the elections to table the mandate and call for early elections. Because of course you know very well that the European elections are not a poll, they are a national poll, and the Prime Minister himself here in this Chamber had initially said that it is a national poll and accepts the bet on who will be the winner. A little mention will be made of an attempt to distort the New Democracy's positions on seven days' work. A few days ago, in the House of Parliament, Mr Hatzidakis had submitted evidence showing, for example, that an operational contract had been signed under the SYRIZA Government with the 'TRAINOSE', namely 15-11-2018, where - look - not only seven days' work is allowed, but the continuous nine-day work of the workers. So, hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple! And Mr. Brutsis had also submitted evidence of an amendment that also provided that the work of the officials at the ICCU's ownership facilities could even be done on holidays and holidays. Therefore, speaking of the issue of seven-day work and even the nine-day, as the Vice-President of the New Democracy has submitted to you, is at least hypocritical. I would also like to refer to the major issue of late payments. Two days ago we tabled a timely question - some colleagues from the Qualified Opposition - concerning the government's inability to repay the public's dues to private individuals. Of course, we have asked for evidence to be heard of why the public debts have remained high and, in fact, to understand the credibility that the government lacks, why the full repayment of outstanding debts has been postponed five times over the last four years, changing six-fold deadlines. And, of course, if it adds to them, i.e. to the high public debt to private individuals, the systematic under-utilisation of the Public Investment Programme, the maintenance of capital restrictions, capital controls, the liquidation of hundreds of thousands of outstanding pensions, all of which one understands that they lack valuable liquidity from the market and unfortunately undermine the country's development prospects. Another point I would like to raise is, as some of you very well know, that yesterday the report of the Institute of GSE came out and Mr Tsipras, the Prime Minister and Mrs Ahtsoglou, the Minister responsible, and, in total, the Government of SYRIZA, should read this report. What does this report say, ladies and gentlemen? That one out of three private sector workers is paid less than EUR 500. This is the situation on the labour market in the country and I think that no one in this situation can be proud of. And, of course, the same report goes on to say that the so-called over-performance of the economy is due to nothing but, unfortunately, to the over-performance of the unnecessarily unnecessarily tax which has been incurred in the middle and medium-sized classes of the country. I'm going to make a final report on security issues. We saw that unfortunately the simultaneous attack of anarchists at the election gatherings of the New Democracy yesterday, both in Athens and Thessaloniki, at pre-election gatherings where two former Prime Ministers, Mr Samaras and Mr Karamanlis were present, but also former President Meimarakis, are not just a security issue, but I think we will all agree that this is a direct attack on democracy. I am saying this because during the election period, I think that no gatherings, no events should raise such matters, should be interrupted, no situations should be created, because these are, as I have said before, a direct attack on the Republic and nothing else. As far as the climate that has been created in the past days is concerned, there is a government responsibility, because it is not just yesterday's events. I would remind you of the murderous attack against a police officer in Exarchia four days ago, the murderous attack by molotovs at the Att Cesarean City, the attack by Ruvikon at the US Ambassador's house - which was fortunately condemned by all sides - by the attacks on the PASOK offices and much more. Here we could devote a whole day to these events. All these are issues which need to be dealt with, but unfortunately, it seems that there is no political will from the government to deal with these phenomena. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the bill and the amendments which have been tabled, I think that, unfortunately, every concept of budgetary responsibility and parliamentary measure has been lost by the Government and unfortunately by many Members of the Co-Population, who have tabled very long-term amendments - obviously, in consultation with the Government - in order to satisfy any request, small or large, fair or unfair. Unfortunately, it is understandable that this election call for amendments, which the government actually says must come with us in the face of the European elections, is a hopeless attempt to change the political climate nine days before the European elections. Of course, this is a dangerous one for today and tomorrow in the Greek economy, a small-party tactic to deplete the budget space from the government, which, unfortunately, all of us will find in front of us in the next few months, and the next government will certainly find it before it. Nevertheless, we, as a party, will stand up to the circumstances and some of them, which are indeed positive, will be positive and not, as you have done, in opposition, to make a sterile confrontation, despite the fact - and I repeat - that these are amendments which, in our opinion, are tabled to us at the last minute and which serve election purposes. As far as the amendments of the Ministry of Health are concerned, I think at least the Deputy Minister could preside over the Committee on Social Affairs and have sufficient time to discuss these amendments and not discuss them today in the ten, twelve minutes that the parliamentary representative has these amendments. More generally, I appeal to the government, when we talk about ministerial amendments and, in particular, about amendments by the Ministry itself when we discuss the bill, knowing that these amendments will be tabled, they should be submitted to the committee responsible, when the main body of the bill is being discussed, precisely so that there is this sufficient discussion time. I'd like to stand on a few of them. We particularly disagree with Amendment No 2196, which deals with the 'October' Foundation. I do not know if the workers of all health systems are aware that there is a unfortunately serious precedent here, because there are two categories of workers with different working rights in the ESS, namely those who will work in the structures of Onaseios and those who will work in the other structures of the ESS. This means, in practice, that as a result of the operational collective agreement signed by the employees, they may have more rights than other ERC workers, but they may also have less rights. That I don't know if the workers themselves have already understood. It is, of course, very interesting for the government to explain to us - because otherwise it is too much for the protection of workers - how it integrates into the public public the institution of the collective agreement in the field of public health when it denounces it for private undertakings. Until yesterday I would remind you that she was venting her clothes and that we should not let workers negotiate their own contracts on their own with employers and through this amendment, she actually allows them to do that. As far as the other amendments are concerned, Mr President, in Amendment No 2179 and in Amendment No 173 we will vote'represent' because we believe that there is an injustice to those who have been consistently paid - on the subject of water - and in fact there has been no provision for them. With regard to Amendment No 2188 and specific No 174, we will be positive. As far as Amendment No 2189 is concerned, we are going to be negative because it seems that it provides for money which - unfortunately - as Mr Fotella said, our rapporteur, precisely because they are a parliamentary amendment, does not actually seem to be spending. It is a wicked way to hide the costs that this amendment bears. If the Ministry really wants to present it, it will have to go to the General Accounting Office of the State and there will be a detailed study to see how much this amendment will cost. For the Ministerial Amendment No 2190 and special number 176, we will be positive. In Amendment Nos 2191 and 177, for the reasons I have explained to the Minister earlier, since we are not breaking, while we are negative to the first part, we will vote'residents' in the second part. We will be positive on Amendment No 2192 and on special 178. We will also be positive in Amendment Nos 2193 and 179. For the amendment of a general number 2194 and a specialist of 180 on ancillary staff, we will be negative because it opens up the platform once again and so starts an impulse and promise, giving hope for recruitment, without any specific conditions being laid down. You also know very well that wage payments from the NRP are not provided for. For the Ministerial Amendment No 2196 and for the Work of the Onassis, we will vote'residents'. For the amendment with a general number of 2197 and a special 183, on building permits, we will be positive. For the amendment number 2198 and a special 184 for the Security Body, we are in 'no' because we consider that there is a malfunction in this matter. They are two of the relevant ministries mentioned in the Security Body. Port is subject to the Ministry of Trade Shipping. The rest is at the Citizen's Department. You realise that, once there is no such consolidation at administrative level, it is at least dysfunctional for someone to talk about unification in terms of internal control. Unfortunately, we will find this in practice. For the amendment number 2199 and a special 185 for the register, we are positive. We are also positive in the amendment with a general number of 2200 and a special number of 186. Finally, we are negative on Amendment No 2201 and No 187 on the renewal of Athens. Once again, you are bringing in an amendment giving rise to electoral recruitment. That's what's worth of me making a very small parentheses. The official data of the census were presented today. Once someone enters the Government's site: From 2014 to 2018, the numbers, as far as the number of poster is concerned, have been launched in the number of administrative and administrative boards and, of course, the number of contractors. I will be very specific: the number of posters in December 2014 was a thousand eight hundred eighty eighty-eight. In December 2018, there were two thousand six hundred ninety-nine, 43% increase. Obviously, this is in the context of the government decongestion announced by the Prime Minister in 2015. The number of government administrations and members of the Board of Directors: Millions three in December 2014, a thousand four hundred seventy-four in December 2018. The number of fixed-term contractors in December 2014 was sixty thousand six hundred nine hundred ninety-two. In December 2018 it was eighty-eighty, eighty-five, five, a 48% increase. What is the cost of these increases I told you about? And be careful, they are not permanent recruitments, but post-mortem boards, some time: they cost us 1,280,000 euros each year, the election recruitment of the SYRIZA government. That is why we in this amendment are voting 'no'. Also, 'no' will be voted on in the amendment with a general number of 2202 and a special number of 188. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr. Kefaliannis. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u213	Mr President, are you telling us how this process will develop?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u214	There's a complete list of speakers. Parliamentary representatives have been placed. I don't know if anyone else is coming. We will discuss with the rapporteurs if they want to use, at least a little bit, the time of their dentistry, for the shorter time and from there the Minister will close and proceed to the vote. I think that within the next three quarters we will have completed. Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u215	I will be very brief, Mr President. Because, as I understand it from the programme of this House, it is the last public debate in plenary before the critical European elections of 26 May, in a few 24 hours, that is, I would like to highlight a few things and talk about some issues in the bill. It should be noted that despite efforts to disorientate the debate in various areas, in my opinion, areas where there is no debate on the fundamental problems of our country and on the main differences in political programmes, despite the systematic effort of the systemic media to throw the ball into the ladder, some days ago and then yesterday's vote on positive measures and the vote on new positive measures included in the bill that we are discussing, I think that the political confrontation, whether Mr Mitsotakis or not, came to the main issues that concern Greek society and its future. The conflict between the two political plans is evident to everyone. That's what this is about. In this field, public debate is evolving, and I think that no matter what the opinion polls and the various polls and horoscopes say, the issues are on the table. The two political plans that are radically different are on the table. The social majority in this country is now clearly understood by Mr Mitsotakis, Mr New Democracy, but also by KINAL, who plays in two boats trying to keep an equitable distance, but without taking a position. This was reflected in the intervention of the Parliamentary Representative, Mr Kegeroglu, on the issue of northern Macedonia. It does not dare to say the word that all the socialist parties in Europe are saying, all their European partners. Nor has this dared to say in an agreement in favour of cooperation and co-development in the wider Balkan region. It is an agreement - standard at European and global level. In this context, the public debate is now taking place. If I may, I would like to mention the splendid effort on the part of the central banker to tell us - when we are clear about the objective of the primary surpluses - that the budgetary balance is at stake. The life and the state of this particular country, when it was politically responsible in these matters, was that the objectives specifically for fiscal adjustment had completely failed. All this said that it was due to the upcoming populist SYRIZA, trying to justify unjustified justification. The crucial issue that has to do with our debate is the attitude towards the right to health and, above all, the attitude to health on the part of the New Democracy. I again saw the New Democracy programme tabled yesterday by Mr Denkias, saying that it is not the first time. Of course, that's not the first time neoliberals say it. It has been said by Thatcher, the Chicago School has said it on one thing, the centre in which this right is affected, it is quite clear. Because if this project by Mr Mitsotakis is implemented, universal right to health ends at the same time. Health will only have those who have financial access to public health structures. This is the main point. This is the great dilemma and it is not in any way justified by the existing problems of the public health system and the whole country, which they literally looted and destroyed decades of politics, particularly in the Memorandum and which led it to this fracture, the mess and the social catastrophe. I think that the whole world understands, the citizens understand, the social majority understands where the thing goes, if they give a small signal that this political project gives an answer to political reality, as it is today. I am deeply convinced that our people will not allow us to return to the right and health plans that we have known for so many years. All the progressive forces must stand against this - I stress it - on the left, first of all, because that means social destruction. I don't know what the Golden Dawn's gonna do exactly, because he had another neo-nazi and fascist delirium a while ago. While my colleague, Nikos Philis, was clear in terms of respect for the memory and family of the wrongdoer, Mr. Katsifa. I think we all agree that this initiative and this contract with the donation of the coefficients of the Elisabeth Papayannopoulos covenant strengthens the public health system. It is noteworthy that for such intervention the water has been put on the board and they are accepted to the specific needs of the health system. Of course it is a part of a tradition of cultural and essential importance, I would say, which exists in Greek society. If we do, of course, we should not perhaps be dependent on donations, but once we have to make use of them in a particular direction, I think the other measures from the whole of the ministries are positive measures. They are measures that solve problems, which face people's needs, needs of better operation. For example, the extension to the issue of the register solves problems. I would like to say a word about the amendment that I proposed and from what I have heard it has been accepted. The question of extending cleaning contracts following the judgment of the European Court of Justice is very crucial for contractors leaving hospitals who do not do their job well, Mr Foyla. Other results have also been achieved in the quality of cleanliness and in the question of the pay of the workers you have pointed out.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u216	For the second.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u217	And in the quality of cleanliness at least with my own experience - I know the place well - things are much better. When workers are satisfied and do not play these games that were played with contractors, they obviously offer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u218	They respect their work.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u219	Sure. They respect their work and make a lot of effort. The issue of 'PHILOS' - which is strengthening the health care of refugees and migrants and strengthening public structures - is an issue that I am interested in and following closely. There are some delays, indeed, at the conclusion of the contract of a thousand four hundred or a thousand five hundred - I do not remember - health workers. There is a forced one - I would say, and nothing else is happening - to deal with the problems. Finally, on the subject of the University Hospital of Ioannina and the 20 workers, recently Minister Andreas Xanthos was in Ioannina, we tried to find the best solution and I think that a solution is given to these people over 55 years of age. They really showed a remarkable commitment to their work and added to the Hospital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr. Manda. As we conclude, I would like to ask whether the rapporteurs agree to use about three minutes. Is time enough for you, or do you need more?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u221	Mr President, after 30 minutes of Mr Polakis' time, is there three minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u222	Mr Barriotta, I propose. It's not a given you'll agree. I'll give you five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u223	Mr President, this is important.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u224	Mr. Barriotta, all right, it's important. I made a suggestion. Three minutes with relative tolerance will reach five, six minutes. Don't go to seven, so we can get to ten each. That's what I mean. So let's start, Mr. Deed with you. I put five minutes and you manage your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr President. The five minutes are enough to describe the concentrated time of the last few weeks, two or three weeks, which the Greek Parliament, on the one hand, and the Greek people, on the other, understood - after the vote of confidence that came to Parliament on the other hand, but on the other hand with the bill on voting for the hundreds of twenty-dollars and all the positive measures announced in Zappeion by the Prime Minister and the financial staff - in this state, which government can give a positive social figure and a future to this people and who will shrink the social prestige, the social state. Well, it's pretty obvious. The first elections will be held after four, four and a half years and will vote for a new world that over the last seventeen years has been completed and its number is about four hundred and fifty thousand. And all these young people must define their future by voting in a positive or negative vote on one or the other government mentality, thereby giving themselves a positive or negative sign. I therefore believe that the Greek people have been aided by these discussions. On the occasion of a draft law on the ratification of the donation contract by the deceased Elizabeth Papayannopoulos, there has also been an extensive discussion on the issues of the main pillar of the social state, which are the issues of the Ministry of Health, and we have today also raised the work of the Ministry of Health through the present ministers over the years, but also the plan on where this programme of the social state is going, through the National Health System and has been completed, in the form of primary health care. I have nothing more to say with regard to the draft law which I described about my prototype, but I have nothing to say about the amendments either to the MEPs or to the amendments tabled by the Ministers for Health, but also to the other Ministers who have been accelerating. I believe that both the parliamentary amendments and the Ministers of the Ministers of the Ministers of the Ministers of the Ministers of the Parties must be voted on, because these amendments from what I have seen generally facilitate the work of the Government on the one hand and, on the other, they relieve and solve problems of groups of citizens or citizens in general. It's not photographic, it's not that they solve one or two cases, etc. For example, an amendment by the Isle of Independent Members, as regards the transport of drinking water to anhydrous islands, is very important. Because, on the basis of the amendment, transport costs will be reduced on the one hand and people will be relieved of many problems. Other amendments, such as the amendment by the Ministry of Shipping via Mr Kouvelli on the electronic register of pleasure boats, are amendments that I believe have a positive sign and will help. I have nothing more to present, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u226	Thank you for the consistency in your time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-nine students and students and five educational attendants from the 1st Municipal School of Pyrgos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Fotillas has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u227	First of all, I should like to express my sympathy and sympathy to the school students who were here earlier, who had the great misfortune once they chose to come to Parliament, to attend plenary, happened to fall on Mr Polakis. Guys, I'm so sorry. I hope next time you're lucky. Also, to express my full sympathy and sympathy to the Minister of Health, Mr. Xanthos, whom his assistant has demolished. He came here, spoke 31 minutes, 50 seconds of which were concerned with the bill we have been here for 30 minutes, to the point where he forgot to talk about the amendments, and he came to say that his assistant will say so. Minister, I'm on your side, I understand what you're going through, I can't help any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u228	Something smarter to find out now at the end, didn't you have?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u229	Now, let's say again that's the bill. At the beginning of plenary, these were the amendments. At the end of plenary, these amendments are here. Ten pages is the bill which we have come to discuss here today for hundreds of pages: the countless amendments, mostly unnecessarily with the Ministry of Health, which have been late and as they have come. Even my neighborhood oven doesn't get rid of fresh coups at such speed as you bring the amendments. Not even my neighborhood oven! And not only do you not feel the need to apologise for this, but on the contrary, it went up before Mr Papadopoulos - I must confess otherwise - to say that not only should we lie to them that they have brought so many delayed amendments, but we must say thank you, because these amendments have come to resolve a number of emergencies suddenly and that that is why the delayed amendments are not coming for another reason. And I wonder if Elisabeth Papagiannopoulou did not give her a donation and we were not here today to discuss the donation, these emergencies would stay so in the air without anyone covering them? Because if that is the case, then we should say 'thank you' to Elisabeth Papayannopoulos, beyond her donation, because it enables the government to legislate where it is to legislate, which the government did not have and which the government did not have to seize the opportunity of giving Elisabeth Papayannopoulos to bring us, I repeat, these. So let's go see the amendments. We have said that for the bill we have nothing to say, only a great "yes" and a great "yes" to the Papagiannopoulou family, which I personally apologise to her, because we have truly degraded her donation by bringing the rest of the package first and secondly the donation. We demolished her. We underestimated her. I apologize to the heirs of Elisabeth Papayannopoulos. Let's go see the amendments now. The amendment, under the general number 2179, is about exempting from the tariffs for ships carrying drinking water to the inland islands. Alas, we agree, water is life and life is an inalienable right of man, which is provided for in the Constitution. I do not know if you all know our Constitution, but it provides for the right to life and as long as water is life, we do not need to discuss whether everyone should have the right - without even giving half the euro - to have water. I just want to raise this: once again forget to reward the perpetrators. So you say that you give thanks to those who did not pay - and you do well - because we are talking about the water of God! But to those who paid, what do we tell them? "Bravo, suckers, you paid. Let us not pay you too and wait until that amendment comes to you to get rid of you." Perhaps I should ask myself one thought, since we give to them - and we do well - who have not paid, to return them to those who have paid, one way or another, so that we can say to them: 'Bravo, you guys have paid. You are not a sucker, we must give you something that you continue to pay and keep this state standing." Let's go down. Parliamentary amendment to the 'PHILOS' programme. I did, but I didn't get an answer. I have heard how necessary it is and I have heard what needs it covers. What I did not understand is that since it was so necessary and had to come to cover essential emergencies, why do we bring her as a parliamentary? Did the Ministers not think that the question of extending the PhILOS programme must be resolved so that we cannot be faced with other things? They waited or hoped that a Member of Parliament would testify? They forgot and Mr. Maddash came, didn't you testify, Mr. Madda? - to remind them? Let us say 'thank you' then to Mr Manda who makes the Minister and brings amendments that the government should have brought. Be well, Mr. Mada. I'd say to you, Minister, but you can't make it, you're done. Let me ask you something, this amendment provides for large expenses which we do not know who they are and which we do not know why they came with a parliamentary amendment, because if they were to come with a ministerial amendment they would have to be accompanied by a report from the State Accounting Office and tell us how much it costs us what we are going to do. So it comes with parliamentarians because we do not yet want to deal with how much it costs. As far as Amendment No 2191/177 is concerned, we cannot agree that doctors' qualifications should be paid. When a doctor from one hospital goes to another to specialize in one particular field, in one machine, he must be paid for it. We agree. Who else can I say? I will also be in one last to see and really understand the hypocrisy of the whole issue. So there comes an amendment - after all, that is what we need to do in the short term! - which says that a single sum of money will be paid to members of the LAGs, SPDs, EDPS, universities, TEIs. He's talking about a single amount of money. I agree. People have to get that amount. I won't argue. I'm not actually going to talk about it. So I'm saying something else. This is ministerial and is necessarily accompanied by the exhibition of the State Accounting Office. Let me remind those who do not know that, under Article 75, every bill, a proposal for a law, but also an amendment tabled by Ministers, is not introduced for discussion if it is not accompanied by a report from the General Accounting Office of the State which determines the expenditure. So this report should tell us how much this little thing we're going to do. Let's see, then, the report by the General Accounting Office of the State in relation to this late amendment. You know what he's saying? It says, therefore, that annual expenditure is incurred as a result of the payment of audit compensation. It also results - it says - one-off expenditure on the payment of a single amount of money. How old is he? He's not telling us. He doesn't define. In other words, Article 75 of the Constitution is not observed and is bypassed. Did we expect the accountant's report to tell us if there's any expense? Didn't we know there's an expense, since we're going to have to do this job? What we should know is how much this expenditure is and from what funds the state budget is to be provided to find the money. That's not happening. So, apart from bypassing and dismantling the legislative process, we come to make election gifts. Mr President, I said that I voted 'yes' in the bill. I leave the rest in the Greek people's judgment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr. Firela. Mr Barriots has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr President. I will try to be as brief as possible. As I said before, too many issues have been raised. The whole health policy came into being in a process that, in my opinion, should have been kept on the issue of donation, at most, in the debate on donation policy, in order to also honour donation, to honour all of them, both small and large, who have put back on the National Health System all these years in a unique way. This government has had the happiness and ability - I have no problem accepting it - to manage huge sums of donations that have never existed in the past. And yet, I'll tell you you did quite well. However, 300 million and 350 million donations to the National Health System did not exist before. Questions arise? Questions arise. Do we have a plan? I'll say again, with all the bravery I can find, that we couldn't have a plan, because we fell out of the sky. We wanted an example without taking a position? Do we want a new prefecture hospital in Komotini, or do we prefer to strengthen the 50% closed hospital in Alexandroupolis, in an area run by Egnatia and the distances have been nullified? Have we talked about it? Oh, no. Do we want a hospital in Thessaloniki? What if we want a hospital in Thessaloniki - which I say we want - what about the many large pediatric clinics in the other hospitals? Will they be maintained in parallel? Who's gonna pay the cost? The money for the functioning of the National Health System is falling. In the stabilization programme submitted by this government as a percentage of GDP, the health budget has been falling steadily for the next five years. This means that we are channelling structures to strengthen new ones. No objections. Do we know what we want to do? They're conversations that don't happen. Let's take a step back, because Mr. Paulakis has raised a lot of issues. The failure of the government brings New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, neither the attitude of KINAL nor the alibi you are trying to find either bad mood or nothing. Forgiveness in the period 2004-2009 vindicates the right-wing policies in Greece and brings New Democracy again vindicated in the eyes of the world, who denounced it when he had to deceive it. Likewise, the depreciation of the National Health System, its conversion, as I have been shouting for a long time, into an innovative system, namely a system that is poor for the poor with low quality, is what in the eyes of the middle class that pays twice - once with contributions for the National System and once from its pocket, when it needs health services - makes it possible to open up the appetites of some for privatization. It is the depreciation of the health system that allows some to see the "Evangelism" as a loot. I belong to those who believe that the "Evangelism" can with the proper management, public management - by professionals and not by politically outdated, as Mr Paulakis said here earlier, by those who have tried to appoint and annulled the government 2004-2009, for which you do not say anything - with modern management, with modern structures, with modern administration, the important medical and nursing staff who have the health system, can stand across and look into the eyes of any private resident or foreigner. Can we do it? The health system must be public. It cannot be state-owned with the Soviet perception of some and it cannot be left more to private interests. However, this requires a clean mind, a transcendance and an end to using as a tool to divide simples and selflessly. In all pensions 6% was the great resource for the National Health System, so that Mr. Paulakis can be repaid that he disbursed the hospital debts plus the huge write-off of debts to the EEAS, which was with a one-tier, as we all know. If I'm going to erase some billions in one line, with three series of amendments, the debts are gone. Debts to the EOPY deleted were.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u232	To EPPYY?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u233	And to EPPY, to the beginning. Minister, you have deleted hospital debts to EEAS. You didn't erase?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u234	Whose debts? The hospitals to the EEA? EEAH owes hospitals.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u235	Now. The hospitals used to have to. You're right. I'm confused. That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u236	EEAH owes hospitals.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u237	Minister, come in. He admitted it. He fixed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u238	As for the 250 million surplus that says it and repeats it, I have said a hundred times if hospitals, hospitals of the vintage sheets, who accept donations of pillowcases, which have no medicine, have for months and years damaged magneticians, who can't make them...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u239	What hospital is that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u240	People know. We don't have to talk about it now. Yours is very new. PASOK did it. Is that right? You're doing something too wrong. If you have 250 million surpluses, which is not accounting, because it is accountable - and you do not invest in hospitals, you are doing something very wrong. It doesn't make sense. We all agree that in hospitals they are neither intended to have a surplus nor profit. They are intended to have good services. If you have 250 million and you can't get ancillarys, then I think you're wrong. With regard to "Attica", Mr. Kegeroglu - and tabled in the Minutes - he was right to say that four and a half years the MRI has been broken since 2014. I will not go into Mr. Pollack's details that the committee broke down, that one happened, the other. As if it were incapable of four and a half years in government, in one of the largest hospitals in the Lecade, the MRI cannot somehow be replaced. Explanations are excuses where it's of interest to us. Lefkada - it says - has delayed neither who has made it nor who has designed it, nor has raised it. Someone asked who did it on the bench and said that the State Building Agency was only inaugurated and founded by Mr. Loverdos. We forgot that. We have also forgotten the good practice of calling the previous Minister, Minister, when it is a great project, as they have done before. Sufflias was inaugurating work and calling for Laliotis and vice versa. It's not bad. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The state also has a number of things, such as the Hospital of Lefkada, you did not do them, others started them, they were delayed by you. Congratulations. They could have been delayed. But, you know, it takes a little bit of a gum. For Mrs Durou and for the region, I would like to say about those finest 40 million. I read just now that Mrs Durou gave 40 million for the ESS. That's right. He gave 117 million for the Church, for temple support, museums, etc. It's good, too, but I didn't hear how much he gave for Mandra, and how much she gave for the Eye, how much she gave for the garbage. I think we all agree that the money provided by Mrs Durou is Greek taxpayers' money, which is a budget for specific projects in the region. It's not anyone's money to share. If he had a surplus and gave to the National Health System, it's all right. That's nice. But let us be a little aware of what this is all about. The region has its job, the National Health System has its job, the Ministry is head of the National Health System through the IRS and has its own budget. It's all accepted in the emergency situation that we were in, and where we were, but to a certain point, we're dyed with fumos and we're going to go out on the canals and we're doing the crashed ones, and we're saying things, as we've had a shift on our shift, which will be left unforgettable. As far as the tenders were concerned, the fact that economic techniques were opened before the techniques was accepted by the Council of State - as Mr Paulakis said here and said that he did well - as an exception because of the exceptional need, in fact, saying that it is not legal, but in any case because the supply of 40 million is very important for the health system, this time we leave it. So let us not celebrate a process which has huge problems and very great questions. It's a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u241	Mr. Barriott, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u242	I could easily eat it because there are huge problems with the magnetices. Are there any pictures? Is there a hospital in the country in which the discount of the only one who bids at EUR 980,000 was ten? There is, he's near us, Mr. Papadopoulos. Is there a standard that flies from the magnetic contests all the others but one outside? There is. You want to talk about it? Do you know them? I'm sure you know them. You want to talk about it? Let's talk about it, but not in a donation bill and make the dude and say what he's been doing for half an hour. For the Prespecies Agreement - because you have said so many - we have had a specific position and we honour it to date. Since the Interim Agreement of Andreas Papandreou we have the same. We have said specific things.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u243	What's her name on the country?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u244	How are you gonna call the country? You didn't tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u245	Europeans, Mr Papadopoulos and Mr Manda, seek greater geopolitical interests and are their right. Socialists and non-socialists have a bigger picture. We will be congratulated on giving Turkey one or two islands, if we can find them with Turkey and solve them. But that is obviously not an argument for what we do internally.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u246	Mr. Barriott, you're finishing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u247	We have had our reservations, we have made them and we will be judged by them, as will you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u248	How are you gonna say this country?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u249	Mr. Comrade, you've reached ten minutes. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u250	I would like to turn to the amendments and end, Mr President. As far as the amendments are concerned, I have said so before. I'll be much shorter. Old party and parents! You are indeed the old one, you are too old, before the Century. This type of corrections, the ruffles, Mr. Manda, I'm sorry, but they don't exist. It is fourteen amendments, it is nothing that is settled, no one not mentioned at a special audience, only your twenty OAS in Yannina, the ones who want to be taken to the Athens Broadcasting Company and who must now be elected. All of them are ruffles and arrangements, some of which are necessary - I am not saying no to the Yannina - but Mr Kegeroglu said earlier that it is not only in Yannina. And Larissa has one. Why would Larissa not be able to take them if she needs them the same way?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u251	Larissa doesn't have one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u252	Mr. Comrade, finish it up. Minister, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u253	Four thousand are if I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u254	From this program only the University Hospital of Ioannina entered. What can we do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u255	Minister, firstly, you are not listening and secondly, you will respond to your speech. Mr Barriotta, you've reached eleven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u256	I continue with the amendments. I'll be very brief. Mr Kegeroglu has referred to the end of transit in detail, I will not go any further. As far as the posting of spouses is concerned, I said beforehand that all these are arrangements and that some are right. It's true that something like that went through for teachers. On the eve of the elections no one won elections from them. For Mr Manda's amendment, the most important one - which shows the Ministry's failure to operate on certain things - is that this extension of PHILOS is the fourth, Mr Manda or the fifth? Fourth or fifth two months? You have to do this for an eight-month period, at least not to vote every three minutes. I understand that the ADP is delaying. We have said another time that ASAP is a problem, but to God! Now, as far as the 100 euros are concerned, if it is 30% and it is less than 100 euros etc., what can I say? The only question is the calculation of the special tax on fields, on the parcels that you have voted for and which will make Thessaly a revolution, will we abolish it? We have tabled an amendment to that. Or will they continue - in theory at least - to be taken into account?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u257	Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u258	I think I'm done, Mr. President, with this. If you give me one more second, I'll finish by just checking if something I forgot. I think we're okay. I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u259	Here, Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Mr President. As I said in my prototype, we will vote in favour of the Clearance of the donation contract between the Greek State and the General Hospital of Pentelis in the context of the donation by means of a covenant of Elissabet Papagiannopoulou. I shall refer a little to the amendments, because they are both ministerial and parliamentary. I'll try to be brief. So I will start with this: there are issues, articles, paragraphs, if you wish, in the amendments - and I do not say that for the first time, but perhaps other parties, I repeat it again - to the ministers, in particular, which if they had been tabled separately, we could vote on them. We are now obliged - as much as we can - to say what we would vote on, that is, what we would vote positively and what negatively from the articles and paragraphs of the amendment, which we should all have - and we are called upon to vote at the end. And that is a matter which we have raised several times in the Conferences of Presidents, but a voice of a voodoo. Because there are real problems in terms of voting and in terms of voting, political conclusions are also being drawn. I'm closing it here. So, for example, in the context of what I just said, it is the amendment with a general number of 2191. We are voting against the first two articles, namely those relating to the Central Board of Health, the Central Board of Health, the Board of Directors and so on. We believe that here through this first article - which we would vote against, if it were separately - you are going to take care of the benefit of, of course, the pharmaceutical industry and the training of doctors, nurses and health scientists, etc. And, of course, will the pharmaceutical industries determine the level, but - if you want - even the orientation of the education of scientists in health and not just? We would therefore be voting in favour of paragraph 3 and 4, as you would like, say that we would vote in favour of this amendment. We would say 'yes'. For us, the first two are bored in voting against and that is why we will vote against this amendment. If they were separated, I said what we'd vote for. With regard to the Ministerial Amendment No 2194 relating to the modification of electronic catalogues, what is happening? We have one increase in subsidiary staff, as it says, but not staff in hospitals, for example. The second point concerns the second paragraph. What does it mean, of course, will be exploited in this direction, namely, payment of supplementary staff - not permanent with full-time and full-time rights - to consolidate this form of work, even more, through the possibility of funding from Union funds or programmes? We are - I said it before - in favour of permanent and stable work by doctors, nurses, paramedics, managers, etc. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and also for the excellent work he has done. In Amendment No 2188, which deals with the posting of nursing staff in the framework of a service, we shall vote'residents' here. We are not opposed to being settled or 'favourable' - in introductory terms, in the good sense - couples in the context of the co-service. But there is, first of all, a condition for the introduction of the service from which the nurse, worker or worker will leave. And, of course, the second condition is the existence of an organic position, when the request to move is from a border to a more central area in our country. And, of course, this is where the state of health, hospitals, primary health care, etc. is known, i.e. the huge problems in staff, gaps and the enormous shortcomings that exist. With regard to the Ministerial Amendment No 2196 on the UN and the possibility of the actual existence of an operational collective agreement - individual contracts promote here - we are against and vote against it. In addition, as regards the amendment by the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, it is not okay. Mr. Stathakis came in, mentioned it and left. But now see: we are asking for this amendment to be withdrawn and for it to be withdrawn, on the basis of all these multi-fashioned laws that you are considering, in order to resolve the issues of fire-fighting areas. We ask that it be withdrawn in order to take into account - what? - the demands of the operators themselves and the inhabitants of these regions, because this is where the lanes open - let me say the word - on issues of forest land, arbitrary land, for which they are arbitrary, which they are not. I would like to tell you that it opens up a huge, multi-teaching legislative framework. And, of course, the inhabitants of these regions, the institutions and so on, I think they should have a say and their demands and proposals should be heard. If you do not withdraw it, we will vote 'at present' in this amendment. We shall vote in favour of the amendment by the Ministry of Justice. Of course, we are voting against the amendment by the Ministry of Shipping. The amendments by the Ministry of Finance are two. I shall refer to the amendment under general number 2192. The out-of-court settlement mechanism is mentioned. Who will be responsible - it says in it, of course - for the removal of surcharges, fees and goes by saying business obligations to the State, to the State, to the insurers, etc.Huh? The Report of the General Accounting Office of the State says that social security institutions will be in charge of them, who is to say? The workers themselves. And this is to settle the debts that they have had since 2017 - and go to 2016 and join 2018 and go by saying -, when the day before yesterday was supposed to triumph you spent the hundreds of twenty instalments for debts to insurance funds etc. The amendment with a general number of 2200 on control mechanisms, inspection, control etc. We will be voting in favour of it. I come to the parliamentarians quickly. We shall be voting against the legislative amendment with a general number of 2195. In our opinion, it is still too late and too late for pharmacists. It's still the liberated hours. And, of course, the second issue of the prospect of reducing the participation of those insured is clearly dependent on the profits of the industrialists, as well as the negotiation with the respective government of the Ministry of Health or, in any case, on the overall negotiation that will take place. We will also be voting against the amendment on the renewal of Athens. We had also voted against the relevant bill for the interventions of this kind, the design, the plan, if you like, which will take place in Athens. We are voting in favour of the legislative amendment with a general number of 2189, because at least with the extensions of contracts, workers will remain working and issues will be resolved by the end of the year as they stand. I should like to close, Mr President, by thanking you for the tolerance, with the following: we have again lived a glimpse in our opinion of the polls, a falsified controversy on health issues too. Reality is impeccable. What is the answer, for example, to an unemployed father and an unemployed mother who had their 11-year-old child in a rehabilitation centre where they paid, in addition to the coverage of the EEAY, EUR 1,500, who covered these extra expenses with the help of acquaintances, friends and relatives? We have tabled a statement, Minister, and we have asked questions and made speeches to the EEAS by telephone, but also to Mr Polakis himself - to see them here - on the occasion of this incident. We know a lot more incidents. So, what are the parents gonna do with that kid? Tell me about it. They have to take it to a private rehabilitation centre, because there are no beds in public rehabilitation centres in our country, only two hundred in Athens. This family appealed to the EEA Health Committee and rejected. Now what's he gonna do? Will he take it home while the child has actually seen improvement and has prospects for improvement? He's 11 years old. I am not saying this to mobilize some people's anger here or those who have us, but to describe a situation, what our people are experiencing, at the same time that you are bailing out of the Step of the House on whether and how a CT scanner was bought. We do not underestimate this as a matter, but we stress that the controversy is exhausted at this level, when the hospitals have transformed it - and in PASOK - New Democracy, and then when you took it as a government of SYRIZA - ANEL and SYRIZA now - into business units. Do you forget about AN? You are gradually marketing public health. In public hospitals, isn't people paying? You are, of course, opposed to the elections that we have before us. For us too - and I say it so - it is a criterion for our people too, that health issues should be a criterion from the point of view of their own expanded health, drug, etc. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. Last of the special speakers, Mr Mavrotas. Congratulations on your election and good success, Mr President, in your new duties. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. I won't need two, three minutes. Our position on the bill and on the donation of Elizabeth Papayannopoulos and the heirs I made it during my protology. It is clear that we are absolutely positive about this. For the amendments I have already explained that we will vote 'at present', not on the content, but on the procedure by which they come to ratification of an agreement to accept a donation, which, in my view, is inappropriate to the draft law which the government sees as a 'host' of amendments essentially. We do not want to contribute to this parliamentary mistrialism, which has used us to legislate with the amendments, so that we have this pluralism and evil, which we have so much to say. Especially at a time before the European elections and regional, self-government elections, as it is the last bill, there is a vehicle for some final arrangements. In general, we believe that the amendments are only justified if it is something exceptional and not the norm. It is only as an exceptional case in this case that we consider what concerns firemen in Matti. We shall be voting in favour of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Minister, you have the floor. Is that enough for you ten minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u264	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u265	So you want all your time?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u266	I think I'm gonna need him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u267	So you have eighteen minutes, as you are entitled.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr President. I think that, because we are also in an election period, there has obviously been an effort at the end of this debate to raise a little tone and to raise wider issues. That's not bad. There is always a common criticism of the circumvention of Parliament's Rules of Procedure and of the provisions on the subject of the amendments. I think that criticism is correct. Indeed, we must make an effort for all of us to have restraint and do not abuse this possibility in bills, but also many times and regardless of whether or not we are going to deal with any pressing issues. For example, this is the laptop with the pharmacies' operating hours. It could be said that this government really had to have set it up earlier and that some SYRIZA MPs did not need to table an amendment now. It has indeed been difficult, because this has been negotiated for too many years with the institutions. There was an insistence, particularly on the IMF side, which considered that the liberalisation of working hours in the operation of private pharmacy is a development measure. This obsession imposed this arrangement. We made an effort a while ago to take a bit of it. He wasn't complete. That's right. Pharmaceuticals insisted that they be dealt with. Then, in the new memorial environment, we thought it was right now to regulate the matter, that is to say, to identify the working hours of private pharmacy with the hours of other stores in the rest of the market. That makes perfect sense, respecting the need for pharmacists to rest on holidays, weekends, etc. Just because there has been no time available so far, we have accepted this amendment, which has the agreement of both the Pan-Hellenic Pharmaceutical Association and all the associations of pharmacists, my dear colleague, Mr Lambroulis. And what you have to say does not apply, is that it is incomplete or that it does not fully deal with the others. And here I want to say the following. This is also an element of an overall intervention. It comes to complement a Puzzle of interventions that we have currently attempted in a difficult context, which we managed, with many cheques of a neoliberal character, mainly from the OECD 'Workroom I', which actually achieved this structure which, through its dispersion throughout the country, provides thousands of people daily and offers primary care services sometimes, to support as much as possible and to show its social role. I would remind you that we have dealt with this in a very effective way, namely the requirement and the Memorandum of Obligation to liberate the pharmacies' pharmacopoeia. In the way we regulated it, we effectively prevented private non-medicines from entering the market. And at the moment, even though there was a possible legitimate concern on the part of the pharmacists that the market would be bleeding, that we would have a oligopolistic restructuring, that companies would be in, that large business groups would be joining, none of them was there, because we set a strict framework and security controls. It is less than ten cases throughout the country where there are pharmacopoeia owners in the eleven thousand pharmacies.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u269	Minister, I'm sorry for a little interruption for an announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber of ENIZELOS and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, twenty-eight students and students and four educational attendants from the 4th Igoumenitsa Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u270	Another example was the issue of non-prescribed medicines, which was required - you know that very well, the current Vice-President of the New Democracy, Mr Hatzidakis - had accepted them for a policy to liberate and sell them out of pharmacy and, in particular, for the large supermarkets. We re-introduced safety valves with scientific documentation, with a recommendation from the EOF and, in essence, over 90% of the non-prescribed drugs were retained in the pharmacy and pharmacist's responsibility, creating a category, GENSA, the General Disposal Medicines, for which the pharmaceutical industry was not really interested in investing and promoting that could be sold outside. Not to say now about the recognition that was rightly pointed out by a colleague again, the role of the pharmacy as a link in the network of primary health services that we established, the possibility for pharmacists after specialisation to carry out vaccinations in an adult population for seasonal influenza and not for children, as some medical clubs were saying, and they went to create noise for opposition to a profession and others. I should like to say about the regularity that has been made in the payments from the EEAS that it is unprecedented. Pharmaceuticals themselves recognize that. I should like to say about the'market' of uninsured people and the uninsured people who have formerly been available only from hospital pharmacys, and now uninsured and impotent and economically weak can take their medicines from private pharmacies, like the rest of the citizens, at an equal rate and, indeed, a third of them with special participation, when they meet some income criteria. I should like to say about the contracts between the EEAS and private pharmacies for the supply of medical devices which have not existed so far. We have in practice supported the private pharmacy, precisely because we recognise an important social role. I also reply to Mr Lambroulis - we cannot denounce regulations, which will obviously be assessed when they are implemented. It does not mean that voting for the regulation at the same time involves a reduction in the patient's financial burden, but these two regulations are very critical. So what do we say? In relation to the new medicines that come into the country and which we have explained that, in order to get into the system of compensation from the EEA, it must be pre-negotiated to negotiate their prices and because the new price is confidential, we predict that these medicines will have a subtle share of the patient. That is, if it's medicines of 25%, it's going to be 12.5%, and if it's 10%, it's gonna be 5%. Therefore, the central negotiation will not only benefit the public, it will benefit and the patient whose participation will be reduced, while typically the retail price will remain the same. We also give the opportunity to increase market penetration by reducing the patient's participation rate. We have already done so for generics belonging to 10%, that is where we become zero, and now we provide for the possibility for generics belonging to therapeutic categories and groups that have an institutionalised 25% participation, to go to a smaller participation. Just how much it will be determined by a ministerial decision. These were all tough memoranda arrangements that were precisely because we came out of the memorandum, precisely because we have more budgetary and political power at this time, we are making use of them for the benefit of both patients and of the middle class. What are pharmacists, ladies and gentlemen? Isn't it a middle class that some people are cut off for middle class? A part of this middle class, therefore, had received the first memorial years overwhelming blows and they know it very well and even trade unions belonging to the political area of New Democracy have said so publicly. So one, that's it. As regards the second regarding the bill, let me say the following. Here we are dealing with a truly important donation from a family to the public health system and we are truly grateful for it. It is a donation that strengthens a political plan to support and upgrade public care that is currently under way in the country. That is the essence of the matter. So we have a partnership between the public with a private body, whether he is an individual or an institution, such as the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. This, however, is a shared PPP that invests in the public health system and produces social reward and benefit to the citizen. It is not a PPP such as what Mr Mitsotakis has seen us in these days, a great PPP that we will actually put the private sector and, indeed, the business-organised private sector in the country, get into what he obviously considers profitable and efficient part of the HSH, invest with equipment, use the personnel of the health system, not to strengthen public care, but to make a profit. This is a completely extreme and cynical, I think, neoliberal approach to this big issue, namely how we will improve, because it is indeed a constant battle to improve the functioning and efficiency of the health system. I think it is just against the plan to systematically improve public care and strengthen it with additional resources and human and material that we have done all these years. In fact, at this time, as Paul Paul Paulakis quite rightly mentioned earlier, he also contains an element of deprivation that had precedented. In other words, all these private workshops in the public hospitals were assigned vital space to the private business activity related to cleaning, storage, feeding and so on. We are therefore persecuting the system, turning this work into decent individual contracts of work into a decent individual, not part of the hard core of the state. At a time when we have clearly shown our bias in favour of public care and we are starting to privatise where there were privatization islands in the system, you are coming and confronting an alternative which provides for even greater privatisation in one of Europe's most privatised health systems, and you are actually saying to redistribute public funds from the public health system to the private sector. That's what you're telling us. In my opinion, this is indeed not just ideological obsession. I think it is a very clear eye closure in very specific business interests in the field of diagnosis, treatment, special interventions and treatments in the field of private therapies. It's a very clear eye closure. That's what Mr. Mitsotakis wants to do. As he sees strengthening the public health system and worrying about losing a sphere of influence, he wants to say in the chapter: “Don’t worry. We will come to you and we will put you in the game and, in fact, in the hard core of the services of the ESS, not cleanliness, guarding and feeding," that is, diagnosis, specialized care, hospitality, etc. And it is true that the health system in recent years has improved very much. Its infrastructure has been greatly upgraded. Paul Paulakis also said so, too. We have over EUR 200 million of public resources we have invested in upgrading infrastructure and equipment in the NSH and we have also donations of over EUR 300 million, which have been invested, precisely because there is political credibility and fair management. There's also a plan, dear colleague Bargiotas, because it didn't come to us in the right place to do a pediatric hospital in Thessaloniki. There is a submitted request for processing time. There is a study in collaboration with the University in Thessaloniki at the Medical School for which clinics will be relocated - obviously there is a plan - and which departments and external medical facilities will stay in the hospitals of Thessaloniki. There's a very specific plan...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u271	Why do you keep it hidden then?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u272	But we don't legislate about these things. That's elementary. If you were interested, we could introduce them to you, explain them to you, but you're just coming here with the convenience of the complaint. On the substance of the draft development of the health system, we are obviously in agreement, and that was the timeless deficit in health policy. I would remind you that we have held fourteen development conferences that were specific to the health sector, where we have consulted local societies, with self-government, with scientific associations, health professionals, with everyone, about what needs are. We have registered and prioritised needs at this time, whether or not we renovate wings, departments, hospitals, health centres, equipment infrastructures and we are just trying with a resource synergy and the state budget that is limited by the Public Investment Programme and by the NSRF, but also by donations from government, from private individuals, but also from other European financial instruments, such as INTERREG, through a multiplicity of financial instruments to systematically strengthen the health system infrastructure. We do not need the private initiative to come and help us, because if Mr Mitsotakis' line is in place, none of this needs to be done. Why should we incorporate projects into the NSRF? Why should we claim to get new CTs? Why ask the regions to help us? Why take from the Ministry and the country's Public Investment Program? Why use the Ministry's reserve? We don't have to do all this. A good 'deal' will be done with the ready-to-be entrepreneurs - who may be late or could be increased - of high technology, who will take the 'fillet' sections to hospitals. This, of course, will also mean a transfer of costs to the state. That's the main difference. We've explained it a thousand times. The public and private sectors have complementary roles. We want to strengthen the public sector and also to receive services - as they receive today - from the private sector. The EEA with private treatments, with private diagnostic centers, with private rehabilitation centers. Mr Lambroulis is right that there is a very zero presence of the public and that is why we are trying to strengthen it at this time, adding a hundred and fifty public beds of closed hospitalisation to eleven targeted CFPs throughout the country. Just because we recognise the problem, we are planning public policies and rehabilitation. So we don't have to do any of this. We do not have to deal with investment in the health system anymore, with improved infrastructure. Mr. Mitsotakis will make some good deals with private businessmen who know the job and who will come to manipulate the health system! The most insulting and derogatory treatment of public care, of the people who are lurking on a daily basis, but also of the excellent administrative staff who have public hospitals, does not exist! We did not expect Mr. Mitsotakis to come up with an assessment of quality and cost-efficiency in the daily lives of hospitals. We have eighteen hospitals piloted, which implement a DRG system to properly record and monitor the costs of hospital services. We have cooperation technically with the World Health Organisation to put in indicators - we have launched it pilots and have presented it here at the Hippocrates Hospital - quality and evaluation of the overall supply and parts and whole hospitals, which will also be controlled by hospital administrations. Let me say that we have most of them and excellent managers in hospitals. The 2/3 of them, dear Costas Bargiotas, have postgraduate and doctoral studies, related to the subject, the management of health services and health finances. You can search and see their resumes. Of course, we also have people who have been committed to public care and honest people who have shown that they can do so, to house the system in a time of crisis, to stop the waste, to rationalise the operation of hospitals, that the suppliers are paid, that we do not owe staff, doctors and other staff, nor on-calls, nor nights, nor exceptional or overtime, so that there is another climate today in the public health system. Employees know very well. Citizens know that very well. This, of course, does not mean that there are no problems. Another to discuss individual problems, difficulties and wounds that have opened up the years of the crisis and another to come here every time to look into public care and to show us as a lifesaving for the private sector, the state sector, as you see, private sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u273	Minister, I would ask you to be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u274	I shall try to finish, Mr President. Mr. Barriots said something, and I want to answer that, too. He said there are projects that are obviously planned, launched, approved and funded, and some others are obviously inaugurating them. Firstly, this course is not undisturbed, continuous and self-evident. To complete a public work of great scope, such as a large hospital, a very large technical effort is needed. Most of the projects that we received, completed and incorporated as bridges in the new ESRB were stuck either by wrong study forecasts, or by oligolesias and uncertainties, by unforeseen critical needs. There's been a huge effort to complete it. And, of course, the crucial thing is that we have ensured, through a multi-annual recruitment plan, which started in the crisis and is now going to continue from now on under the rule one by one, that these structures are functional and will not be key in the hand, as we have received a number of infrastructure, workshops and whole hospitals with a top example of the Santorini Hospital, without any prediction of how they will work. Not to say now about the CFPs, which were planned throughout the country, were deported and abandoned, and now they have been supported with targeted recruitment and permanent and subsidiary staff and through OAED and already produce excellent public care in the area of rehabilitation, rehabilitation, which is really lacking in the ESS. Watch out now. The previous ministers should therefore be invited. You challenged me and I'll answer. We did, my dear colleague Costas Bargiota, and you know that very well - last year, early in 2018, an anniversary event for the hundred years since the establishment of the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u275	How many days before "NOVARTIS"? Three or five?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u276	Leave it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u277	How many were there?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u278	It was scheduled a year ago. There was a working group with historians, with the people of the RIS, who sat down and found material and built the leaf. So we're having an anniversary event at the Congregation of Music. We call on all the ministers, Deputy Ministers and State Secretarys of Health who are alive - all, zero except - and we call on Friday, August, a flagrant figure for the establishment of the National Health System, which implemented the founding Law 1397 as the main speaker. And the Group of the European People's Party decides or I don't know which body of the CINAL forbid him to participate in the event and forbid any other executive from taking part in it. In their honor, several ministers from the New Democracy were present. They were enough. I don't want to name them, because I might forget anyone. So don't tell us that. There's rivalry, it's legitimate. Another adversity and other intolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u279	Minister, if you can finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u280	I'm closing up saying this. We have proved, ladies and gentlemen, that the public does not match neither incompetence nor indifference to the citizen, nor to the dreadful management, nor to the low services. We have proved, in practice, that the public health system, slowly - we do not claim that we have, by magic, changed a grim reality - is becoming more reliable, more functional and, above all, accessible to everyone and operates in good faith and with a sense of social responsibility. And I think this is very important. Of course, we need more resources. Of course, he needs a better organization. Of course, we need better staffing, we certainly need an assessment of the quality of care, and that is what I said to you at the moment. I think, therefore, that at this time the citizens have understood very well that there are some who in the same monumental environment have broken down the public health system, disorganised its structures, abandoned public hospitals' resources, created terrible malfunctions, reached the black-out limit. And there are some of them who, in the same context, covered the uninsured, supported the public hospitals, strengthened their budgets marginally but critically, streamlined the system, housed, and, above all, ensured that everyone in need of a cure in the public hospital, however expensive they may, without discrimination, have it today with credibility and dignity. That's a huge change. The world understands very well that those who have achieved it in the difficult times can in the new period, which has the greatest potential, achieve it even more and strengthen the dignity and credibility of public care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The debate is being declared late...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u282	Mr President, I would just like to speak for one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u283	Mr. Barriot, there's nothing. Mr. Barriotta, it's over. It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u284	Just for a minute, Mr President, why he referred to himself...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u285	There's nothing personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u286	It is not about me, but the Minister personally referred to Mr. Agronos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u287	Mr Barriot, no, it's none of your business. The Minister will have to answer after that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u288	Maybe, if he wants to, he can answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u289	Mr. Barriotta, I'm sorry. There's no personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u290	The Minister said about Mr Avgerinos and I would like to make a little clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u291	Let's not talk about Mr. Avgerinos and anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u292	Give me a minute, Mr President. It's a matter of morality. Mr. Blonde's report has been made to Mr. Avgerinos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u293	Mr Barriott, please, they will all speak. The meeting is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u294	I want to give an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u295	But I can't give you the floor. Mr. Lambroulis will be asking after the speech. Mr. Mavrotas will also want the floor, Mr. Mandas will want Mr. Lightolas as well. The meeting is closed. Please make it easier for both the Bureau and the audit.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u296	Just a minute and I'll be done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u297	It's not whether you've finished it. I tell you that the procedure will not end because it is not on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u298	I insist, there's a reason. It's about an important person.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u299	It's not a personal matter, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u300	I want to make a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u301	Make the clarification to Mr. Blonde. Make her a statement out on the perimeter somewhere. Not to use Parliament's microphone at this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u302	I insist that I take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u303	But it's not about insisting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u304	I want to give Mr. Blonde an answer. It's not bad.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u305	Mr. Barriot, it's not a matter of hurt. Everyone has something to say. From the Minister's word, they might all have something to say. It's not personal, that's what I'm telling you. If it were something personal, I would be delighted to give you the floor. It's nothing personal, Mr. Barriotta.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u306	I want to make a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u307	But why are you making it hard now? You're embarrassing me. I've never had the word out of anyone. You're embarrassing me right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u308	You make it hard without any reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u309	I don't make it hard. I'm asking you to help the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u310	However, for the record, Mr. Avgerinos cannot forbid him. It was his choice. And I say this out of respect for his face...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u311	Good. It became clear, Mr. Barriotta.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u312	You didn't respect him!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u313	Minister, please. You understand, Mr. Barriotta, what's going to happen? If I let you talk, we'll have this whole argument here. Let us end the sitting - it is the last meeting before the elections - to go to the elections, to see what is missing here. The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Health is closed: "Presentation of the donation contract between the Greek State, the General Children's Hospital of Pentelis and the contributors of Elizabeth Papagiannopoulou's covenant and other provisions". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. We would point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, an article, ten six amendments, a farewell article and the whole bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. It's the so-called scroll down. The number of articles remaining to be voted on at the top right-hand side of the screen is shown each time. Make sure that you have voted for the article in question and the amendments and, after you have registered your vote, you have the opportunity to check it or to revise it by the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u314	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u315	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u316	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Health: ‘Presentation of the donation contract between the Greek State, the General Hospital of Pentelis Children and the Cooperatives of Elizabeth Papagiannopoulou's covenant and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in principle, of articles and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u317	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u318	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-16-S1-commons.u319	With the consent of the House at 17.05 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 17 May 2019, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
