ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter the debate on today's topical and urgent questions, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent debate on Friday 1 November 2019. COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE (Articles 129(2) and 3, 132(1) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 141/11/25-10-2019 topical question by V' Vice President of Parliament and MP Arcadia of the Change Movement Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Prime Minister, on the subject: "The Gordian bond and the irrationality of the Peloponnese Waste Management PPP must be solved". A. FURTHER QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of the Bulgarian Rules of Procedure) 1. The 145/29-10-2019 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Extremities regarding the strengthening of the Primary Care for Health in Heraklion Prefecture and the extension of the Cardiopaths Intensive Monitoring Unit (MPC) to PAGNI". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 136/22-10-2019 by MP Larissa of the Change Movement Mrs.Evangelias Liankoulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Degraded General Hospital of Larissa means a deterioration of public health for the whole prefecture.” 3. The 155/29-10-2019 topical question by F' Vice President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The function of the gastroenterological clinic at the General Hospital of Larissa". 4. The 137/23-10-2019 topical question by the MEP of the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliardou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Worlds for which the electrical connection at Attica - Crete is being promoted as a national project". 5. The question under number 150/29-10-2019 by MP B2 West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Revenge of 7,500 acres containing houses, green areas, schools and forests from the Metropolitan Temple of the Evangelism of the Theotokos of Lamia". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 146/29-10-2019 topical question by MP Boeotia of the Radical Left Coalition (Panagiou) Poulou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "The need to extend the deadline for submission of statements to the Viotia Land register". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 138/24-10-2019 of the Greek MP of the Movement of Change Mr. Charalambos Kastanides to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The spread of insect bark in the Shah Sou forest." 3. The 151/29-10-2019 topical question by MP B2 West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Revenge of 7,500 acres including houses, green areas, schools and forests from the Metropolitan Temple of the Evangelism of the Theotokos of Lamia". 4. The 147/29-10-2019 topical question by MP Rethymnon of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Removal of the self-employed of the Centre for the Treatment of Degraded Persons and design in the field of dealing with dependency". 5. The 143/29-10-2019 topical question by the MP Corfu of the Change Movement Mr.Dimitrios Biagi to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: ‘Previous abandonment of Achilles’. 6. The 153/29-10-2019 topical question by MP II Piraeus of Mera25 Mr. Fotinis Bakadammas to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "Traveling a student at the pan-educational rally of October 24, current". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Under No 148/29-10-2019, a topical question by MP Achaias of the Radical Left Coalition Mrs Athanasia (Syria) Anagnostopoulou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Guidance of the train in Patras from the station of Rio to Agios Dionysius (underground journey about half a mile)". 8. The Question No 160/29-10-2019 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "A major need for a definitive extension of the procedures for holding at least until the end of the year." 9. The 158/29-10-2019 topical question by MP Rodopi of the Change Movement Mr.Ilhan Ahmet to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Building a second bridge on the border of Gardens - Highlights of the Greek-Turkish border". 10. The Question No 129/22-10-2019 by F' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. George Lambroulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The functioning of the pediatric clinic of the General Trikalon Hospital." 11. The question raised by Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos, Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, raised by Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos, Vice-President of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 12. The question asked by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece, Nicolas Papastastasis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Escalation at the Lefkada Hospital and the primary Health Care of the region". 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The 114/18-10-2019 topical question by MP B2 West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Health, on the subject: "Application for approval for the medical treatment of Panagiotis - Rafael Glossiotis". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 946/26-9-2019 by Mr Socrates Famelou, Vice-President of the Thessaloniki Radical Left Coalition, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Addressing the worrying decline in the level of the Koronea Lake and ensuring its long-term ecological upgrading". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 868/24-9-2019 by MP, East Attica, Radical Left Coalition Mr. Panagiotis (Panou) Skouriakou, Minister for Finance, on the subject: "The abolition of DU Acharon". 3. The question, under number 979/27-9-2019, of the Greek Radical Left Coalition, Mr Socrates Famelou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Designing and resources for the fair transition of the lignite areas". Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs Mr Stylianos - Ioannis Koutnajis informs the House of the following: ‘We hereby inform you of the topical and urgent debate on parliamentary scrutiny on Thursday 31 October 2019 that the topical and urgent questions to be discussed are as follows: Question No 139/24-10-2019 will be answered by the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon-Adoni Georgiadis. Question No 142/25-10-2019 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of National Defence, Alkiviadis Stefani. Question No 154/29-10-2019 will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Panagiotis Mitsarakis. Question No 144/29-10-2019 by Mr Theodoros Livanios will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Interior. Please, as you do, in order to inform both the President-in-Office and the honourable Members of the proceedings.’ Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first question will be discussed under number 144/29-10-2019 of the First Cycle of the Thessaloniki Radical Left Coalition, Christos Giannoulis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Disconnection of compulsory education from recruitment qualifications to cleaning and ranking services on the single wage". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Home Affairs, Mr. Theodoros Lebanon. Mr. Giannoulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank you for the sensitivity you have shown in answering this timely question. I wondered, of course, whether the parliamentary speech and parliamentary procedures could relate to one case of a woman. On the basis of the pluralism and suspicion we have about how the Greek state has been structured in previous years, unfortunately, we have come to the conclusion that from one occasion we can lead to a general situation. The subject of the topical question concerns the effort to link women to clean-up, where they now face the range of redundancies, because they cannot join the single wage, despite the fact that their formal qualifications have been accepted at least until the 1980s for their recruitment in the public sector under contracts of indefinite duration. I would like to point out, Minister, that in one of the cases we are talking about there has been recourse to Greek justice. Already, a positive interim decision has been reached, according to which this person working for cleanliness in the Municipality of Naples - Thessaloniki has returned to work. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I believe that in dentistry, with the goodwill you have already shown, and in oral communication so far, we will find a solution that does not produce any favor for those who will try to infiltrate into a transitional provision, but will also give justice to workers who are hard, paid for as far as possible, and who are also a key element in the functioning of the services they serve. I therefore believe that, on the basis of these facts, a solution can be found which concerns a wider set of working women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u3	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Giannoulis, you raise a point which I personally did not know exists in these specific cases. I have to say that as soon as you have tabled the question, we have contacted both offices and we are trying to see exactly what is happening. This will continue in the next few days, in order to see exactly what has been done and what action needs to be taken to ensure that there is no shadow in the employment relationship of these officials. It is, in fact, a problem that was mainly with judicial decisions after 2009-2010, where the two works contracts were converted into contracts of indefinite duration. There was no stimulus there, that is, without being a graduate of compulsory education to make a project contract. But there was a problem there. This has been discussed, in particular at the time, by various directorates of human resources, mainly OTAs. Legislatively, in 2017, if I am not mistaken, with Article 52 of Law 4456, the issue has been resolved for those who have been converted into the conventions and who do not have the standard qualification. So we will see cases and in collaboration with the General Accounting Office of the State - because it is the wage issue, for which the General Accounting Office of the State is known - and we will see what needs to be done. What we have to say - and you are right - is that one of the greatest conquests of the post-doctoral age is nine-year compulsory education, which has drastically reduced the level of illiteracy in the country and I think that we should not show any tolerance in this. This does not mean that we should not see with sensitivity some cases, especially in elementary graduates, in the transition period in the early 1980s, but I think we can, in cooperation with the services too, find a solution so that there is no problem for these officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr Giannoulis, you now have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, I will not even have to call it a dentist. I said that anyway, the Minister's initial attitude was clearly positive. I just want to submit a document, which helps with the political leadership of the Ministry of Interior. It is an opinion of the Legislative Council of State, which leaves no room - beyond the establishment of a transitional provision - for the integration into the single wage bill of workers who do not have the standard. And not only will I agree and sign it, but I will multiply it, that it is a few workers, because the obligation to train has been socially fulfilled in the coming years as a compulsory step. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Giannoulis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I hope and hope, Minister, that we will have results - and I am sure you will do so - within the time laid down by the interim order for the interim measures and for this, but also for those that will follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u8	Thank you. I'm not gonna need all my time either. I will study the opinion of the Legal Board of the State. I don't know if he's accepted by the Minister. I guess not. I don't know her. In any case, however, what is to be done is to look at the matter that I have said before. It is not just about the specific personal case of the staff member you mentioned, but some cases, scattered on the ground, which we will see, so that there is no shadow in their employment relationship. Obviously, it is important that the state does not exhaust its rigour in some small cases, which, in the midst of the six-year transition to Nine-year-old Compulsory Education, have remained outside. The good news, of course, is that, as I have been informed, these officials, who are the other cases, are normally paid. What we are going to see is institutional regulation - because I suppose they will reach a retirement limit now - so that they can go ahead with their retirement as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the second topical question, I would remind the House that tomorrow Friday, 1 November, we have the "Prime Minister's Time" and will discuss the question by number 141/11/25-10-2019 of the current question by Vice-President of Parliament and MP Arcadia of the Change Movement Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Prime Minister, on the subject: "The Gordian bond and the absurdity of the Peloponnese Waste Management PPP must be resolved". We are now coming to the third with No 154/29-10-2019 a timely question for the first cycle of the MP of Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Syntagaki, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Let the wages of the workers of "Creta Farms" be paid immediately and their insurance and employment rights ensured". Mr. Synthraki's question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr. Metarakis. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the 'Creta Farm' is in a state of bankruptcy - it is well known - despite the fact that in previous years it has emerged into a market leader, it has been projected for its innovation and its extroversion. Long-term behind-the-scenes negotiations, large-scale banks, aspiring investors, have been ahead of us in an attempt to save the business. They, in our view, are solely responsible for the current situation. Yet, over eight hundred workers and their families are dramatically experiencing job insecurity, risking losing their jobs, paying the price of choices and games, for which they do not have the slightest responsibility. Already, in various ways, staff have been reduced. On the altar of the company’s viability and competitiveness, major cuts have been imposed since 2012, in 2014, a adjustment of working time and other sacrifices has been made. The company owes the employees three to four wages, while the bank's liabilities are running, taxes, debts are still pending in municipalities and other outstandings. The Court of First Instance of Rethymno, as announced, accepted the request of the temporary administration to subject the ‘Creta Farms’ to Article 106A of the Banking Code. However, whatever solution is found, unfortunately the workers, on the basis of the legislative framework, will be the victims of this development, which fatally lead them to forced resignation. Minister, we ask you what you are going to do, firstly, to pay off the employees' prizes from the company, their allowances, before any investment scheme is selected, any solution. Secondly, in order to ensure that no job is lost, regardless of the investment scheme to be created, we ask that there be succession and that workers be also to the new employer, but also in the event of the company going bankrupt, workers should be given priority over the company's creditors. We would remind you that there has been a change in the bankruptcy procedure, with a purely class measure, which your own government had previously taken, namely the New Democracy, which, of course, was maintained by SYRIZA, where workers' rights were classified in the requirements of 25%, that is to say, a lower category. We therefore think that this should be addressed. It's unacceptable. It is a universal requirement to change this arrangement. I would like to say one last thing: we are asking you to freeze unfinished obligations for workers in banks, taxes and municipalities until they have been paid back and the situation has been normalised. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u11	The Foreign Minister for Labour and Social Affairs has the floor, Mr Metarakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, thank you very much for this question about the Creta Farms company. The government has recognized the problems facing this company at the very first moment and has moved decisively in trying to find a viable and definitive solution, which, as you can see, prejudges the proper functioning of the company and the finding of new investors. Because without companies producing, it is impossible to keep these jobs in the long term. It is a debate that we had held last Thursday in other questions from the Communist Party of Greece. The Government has therefore taken an initiative immediately through the present Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Adonnis Georgiadis, to overcome the crisis and save the company. There were several meetings with the two shareholders, as, as you know, there were issues of understanding within the company’s shareholder composition and with the banks. On July 26th, an agreement was signed between the company, shareholders and representatives of the four creditors, with the aim of restoring normality in the operation of the company, finding a strategic investor, transferring trademarks, patent rights from Cyprus, in which they were found in Greece and research by sworn accountants. There was also exceptional financial aid, with increased safeguards and the consolidation of all the shares in the main shareholders. Already, temporary administration has been appointed, with a recent judicial decision, which seeks new interim financing from the banks, with a view to meeting its obligations, such as payroll and suppliers, equally necessary for the production of products and for the proper functioning of the company. As I said, the signals have already come to Greece, and that is necessary in order to find a new strategic investor. Six non-binding tenders have been submitted and we have a deadline on 18 November to conclude finding a viable solution. Of course, the Ministry of Labour continues to monitor the company's performance. I want to tell you that a new check was requested that went yesterday. From the Rethymnon RES they tell us that the audit was carried out normally, that the payroll was not paid, recorded and imposed, of course, and the necessary fines, as labour legislation provides. An issue has also been raised for a trialogue meeting between the employees of the company and the Ministry of Labour. It was not possible to do this until temporary administration was established. We have now moved on to the process and this tripartite meeting will be held in order to find the best solution for the protection of workers and the viability of the company, which is equally important.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u14	Mr Minister, very much - the history that has been ahead of us, we all know that. However, the current interventions by the government, in our view, are aimed solely at ensuring a balance between business interests, which does not mean in any case that workers' rights are guaranteed. I would say that more than a month ago the Ministry of Labour denounces the request of the Federation of Milk, Food and Drinks for a trialogue meeting on issues relating to 'Creta Farms'. I was just informed - you said it now - that the parties involved were invited to a trialogue meeting. Slowly late than never! We believe that today's debate on 'Creta Farms' has also contributed to this. In terms of wages, I would like to say: The wages paid differ depending on the money owed by the company to each employee. It was not repaid as a whole. Some received a half - a - and - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a - a wage, and a - a - for - a - for - a - for - a day wage. In any case, the main volume of debt remains and is about three months’ debt. Minister, over 60 million euros were made by the funds of the operation. No harm, no harm! Who is responsible for this situation? Shouldn't the government take a stand on this? Let me say that the workers are not interested in the dispute between the Domazak brothers. The mismanagement, the bad business moves, the gambling on the stock market, the exposures of many millions of euros, but investment toys of entrepreneurs will not be paid by the workers themselves. These poor investment moves, the case with the company's patents, and the way the 'black' money is paid by Creta Farms to various offshore companies - these are heard - will not be paid by the workers, Minister. It turns out God finally is the profit at every price. And while all this is happening, the company was greatly financed by the banking system. It was the first company to join the famous Juncker package. However, despite the high profit rates and the continuous growth of its market shares, despite the sacrifices of the workers, it is now on the verge of bankruptcy and is unable to finance the production process as well. The raw reality, Minister, says that businessmen, whether gaining or failing, always have one thing in their minds: to maximise their profits, their personal benefits at the expense of workers and society as a whole. In our opinion, all of them - large shareholders, strategic investors, banks - are doing for the rescue of workers, but in practice they promote their own self-interests, always asking workers to make sacrifices and to pay for the broken ones. Workers have no reason to want the company to continue operating and to recover production. However, the cost of any rescue plan should be borne solely by the profits of the large shareholders, banks and investors. To enforce this, workers themselves must be fully aware of the real situation, the self-determination, the manipulation of these interests, the awareness of their own strength and, above all, the promotion of their own needs, the organization, and the assumption of their rights in their own hands. And on this road they will have the sincere and wholehearted support of the other workers and the class labour movement. Minister, it remains the question of safeguarding employees, regardless of any solution, of freezing their outstanding obligations on banks, taxes, municipalities, etc., and of safeguarding their working rights. This is what the workers are waiting for and for you as a government and as a ministry, since you are talking about the issues of sustainable development, etc., which, apparently, is not growth for many, is for the few, for the entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u16	Mr Colleagues, you describe a difficult situation facing the company Creta Farms and you are right. It's a reality. I do not think it is here to see historically why this operation has arrived here - each company has come to a problem for a number of different reasons - nor to enter a general ideological debate again. The fact is that the government's priority is to ensure the survival of the company and to protect the rights of its employees 'Creta Farms'. And this is not just an initiative from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, it is an overall government policy. I mentioned in my protagonist the great efforts made by the Ministry and the Minister for Development and Investment to keep Creta Farms open. You will agree with me that if the company does not survive, any company that does not survive and close, this leads to job losses. So, we're not talking about growth for the few, we're talking about growth for everyone. This is our strategy. From there on, as far as our Ministry, the Ministry of Labour, I assure you, Mr. colleague, as well as the National Representation, is concerned, that we are applying every means available to us by Greek legislation to protect the rights of workers. As I said in my prototype, the tripartite meeting between the Ministry, the workers and the employers will take place from 7 to 11 November, which was not possible until a new interim administration has been established. There was no reliable interlocutor on the part of the company to make this debate. Also, with our decision of 23-8-2019, we suspended the company's contribution and debt adjustment measures in the Rethymnon region for six months, and this also helped Creta Farms at that time. We continue with the relevant APRC departments to carry out continuous checks, to record the situation, so as to find a definitive and viable solution for the company to make sure that all workers are paid. You are also aware that on 30 August the company lodged letters of availability of workers and had to make 11 employees available. This is also an issue that we want to see and discuss in this tripartite. The fact is that the main priority is to survive the company, which will be the basis and we will ensure that all the rights of workers arising from this finding of a solution are respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Minister. We enter the second question under number 139/24-10-2019 of the First Vice-President of Parliament and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Application of measures on the unacceptable and unjustified high charges of banks in simple procedures and a great burden on consumers by using debt and credit cards". The Minister for Development and Investment will answer Mr.Adonis Georgiadis. Here, Mr Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I think we need to say publicly that the government has so far shown a perseverance and consistency in answering questions, and that is the first and most important issue in something that has not happened in the past period. Minister, the issue of the banks is an important issue that has a past and results from the decisions of the past. We must not forget that the third inappropriate recapitalisation made by the SYRIZA - ANEL government has given all the systemic banking system with 350 million to foreign investors, after they have excluded every Greek businessman from being able to get shares. At the same time, a few days ago the development law gave banks 400 million. And today, Minister - unfortunately, the previous government has done nothing, but now it is you in the government - the banks are making unacceptably high charges in handling procedures, even in taking money. I mean, if you go to an island like Ikaria for example, and it only has a systemic ATM bank and you make 20 euros, it'll take you three euros. I repeat, three euros commission! I don't want to talk to you even about transactions made via e-banking, even about the transaction made for the payment of PPC. Besides, you have the answer, I believe. Mr Stavrou sent it to me, who said that he had a lack of competence. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President. Of course the banks must support growth and it is a real pillar of funding. But that goes beyond every limit. After the meeting of the Prime Minister with the bankers and your Government - and you were present - we are waiting today for you to tell us what stage this process is and how determined it is to force the bankers to stop these unacceptable charges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u19	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, first of all I would like to say that I consider it a self-evident obligation for the ministers to respond to parliamentary scrutiny. In so far as this government is concerned, the mandate we have from the Prime Minister is only for reasons of extreme urgency, which are beyond our powers, that the ministers be absent from the answers to parliamentary control. So what you see now will continue throughout our entire term of office. We must finally restore normality in the country. I say this because it had happened to me personally to put the same time-consuming question, Mr President, to the then Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotos, on the journey of the then Prime Minister to Paris a hundred and thirty-two times and never came to answer. I'm going to answer the question. Firstly and above all, unfortunately - and you have raised the issue very well at the very beginning of your position - the Greek Government has no real power to administer the banks. The banks have left the Greek hands. They left in November 2015 with the latest recapitalisation, where the total of the shares that until then held the Greek State passed into the hands of foreign institutions. So, from that moment on, the Greek to then banking system passed into other hands. Therefore, people need to know that the relevant Minister for Development has no substantial share-holding influence on the banks. It has only the institutional influence that its government position gives him and nothing else, because then the banks are lost. And it is good for the Greek people to know and to remember that they have also been lost for a piece of bread. I'm coming to the object. As you know, last Friday at the Maximos Concert Hall, the Prime Minister convened an institutional meeting with the Union of the Greek banks, but also with the participation of the four directors of the Greek four systemic banks, where one of the issues discussed at the table, as the discussion also had other issues, were these charges, the extra charges announced by the banks and which, according to the banks' announcements, will start to apply from the end of 2019. I must tell you that the government, the Prime Minister, and I, as the Minister responsible for development, have raised this issue with great intensity to the banks. They have committed themselves to reviewing the relevant communications and we expect their decisions shortly. I'll give you more details in my dentext so I won't abuse time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u22	The truth is, Minister, that I too, Mr. Tsakalotos, for the Greek you are concerned with now - we were dealing with it and we supported it and finished the championship to come and answer me - I had tabled forty-five times questions. But now it is another matter. I understand and agree with everything that's going on. But there is a government that has a decisive role to play in this. No one can escape the responsibilities that exist when someone has the rule of the country. I want to tell you something, Minister, and I want to testify. On January 17, 2011, with Minister Kegeroglou, there were eight abuses and by decision of Minister Kegeroglou, they were banned. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] When you're with the weak, you're with the weak. When you say you're with the weak, but you close your eye on the funds, you sell them for 350 million. What were those terms? The condition that, in the event of cash being taken from a store or ATM of the same credit institution, a fee or operating expenses shall be paid by the consumer to the credit institution, the term for a housing loan, commission or fees for depositing on a third-party account and too many other matters. So there was a decision by Mr Kegeroglou at a certain time, which was abusive and stopped them. This is a complex matter, and it is not only about the government's willingness, but about the justice that must exist in various regions of the country first of all, that is, in relation to the province or the remote islands with the centre of Athens. In other words, I and you and the other colleagues here who can find all the ATMs are not paying any extra charge. A person on a remote island or in the province will have to pay a hundred kilometres of gasoline or have to pay 3 euros at 20 euros. This cannot be accepted and must not be accepted by anyone, neither by the government nor by us nor by anyone else. And in any case, the SYRIZA government for what it did to banks, the great favors, has been judged and knows where the banks arrived. You are now judged as government and you will be judged strictly by everyone if you allow the banks to continue making these unacceptable charges, despite the facilities we have made them in the recapitalisations, which have been lost because SYRIZA has not allowed third recapitalisation. I said that all that was decided. We have supported and supported the banks by the Greek people. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] I, Minister, really believe that the government can in any case be imposed on the banks. If it can't be imposed, then you know that the message that will be sent to Greek society, to the simple world, to everyone will be that banks are doing the best in everything. And I don't think we need to send a message like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u24	First of all, the banks, Mr Constantinople, from this government have already received the message. I inform you - although you are certainly aware - that the biggest fine that has been placed on a Greek banking system in the last decade, of EUR 120,000, has been introduced by me as Minister of Development thirty days ago in one of the four banks for a specific act of seizing an irresponsible account of a fellow citizen of ours. Therefore, you have no doubt that, in so far as the institutional framework allows, we will not let banks make abusive charges or have abusive behaviour to anyone. And he's already on his way to work with the Ministry of Justice and the bill on the harassment of citizens by the collector companies, so, as far as I'm concerned, please know that what you said I respect and accept. No, banks won't do whatever they want in Greece! It's over and over! But be careful now, there is an institutional framework. Act No 4537/2018 incorporating European Directive 2015/2366 was adopted in October 2018. Under the law, therefore, 2018 and the European directive, banks are moving within the framework of this law passed by the Greek Parliament and on this law they are now relying on to put the charges for the loss of the card, for the loss of PIN and all the rest. And it's a law on government SYRIZA. So we come now and say: What have we told the banks, and what am I saying, and I want it to be heard from the Step of the House? Firstly, we are looking very carefully at any harmonised practices. Because, as you know very well, if there are harmonised practices all four or three banks together decide on similar charges - because I want to say that especially one and I do not want to say names here, so that it does not appear that I am making advertising, it has remained much lower and much more mild in this policy - the Competition Committee is here and I am ready to make a personal complaint about this. And the institutional framework there is heavy and the fines too great. Therefore, harmonised practices will not be allowed. Secondly, especially in what you have set, that is to say, to have charges from automatic machine in a machine where there are many automatic machines, it makes sense. The bank spends time making this liquidation. But where there's a machine, there's a real thing. And this was put on the table by the Prime Minister, you should know. It is completely absurd that a citizen who has no choice but to go to another machine should be forced to use one machine and to charge these excessive charges. So everything that our government has said and which is monitoring and is ready to intervene in the legislative framework - I stress - which we have and not beyond that. I have to tell you that this government is trying to create a favourable business environment. Already with our policy, the country's borrowing rates have declined to an unprecedentedly low level. I would remind you that yesterday we had issued six months of Greek State interest stamps at zero interest rates. For the first time in our history, we got a zero interest rate for six months. The ten-year Greek bond goes down under 1.20 and is unprecedented. The first time in the history of Greece there is such a low interest rate thanks to the initiatives of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the confidence it has inspired in the markets. The reduction in interest rates and the favourable investment climate are obviously also favoured by banks, which can now borrow at a lower interest rate for the jobs they want to do. And so, in this new context, we also expect the banking system to respond to the initiatives of the Government and to assist in a favourable investment environment where charges on the part of the citizens will be reasonable. I accept that, of course, the banks should also have some charges. It can't work the banking system otherwise. Undoubtedly, in order not to go to the other end, the bank cannot operate with damage, the bank will operate and charge for what it offers. But the charges must be reasonable. Because if it is not reasonable, you should know that the government is present and yes we lost the shares due to Tsipras in September 2015 and from now on, in November 2015 specifically historically with this last sale of shares held by the Greek State, but we are still sovereign government in a sovereign country and there is an institutional framework and a Greek and European that gives us the tools and we will use them. Thank you very much, Mr Colleague, for the question that was crucial.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-three students and students and three teachers attending the 5th Glyfada High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I also have the honour to inform the House that the Minister of Justice has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003, the Law on the liability of Ministers, as is the case, on 30-10-2019, four criminal proceedings. The first criminal case is against the former Deputy Minister of Development and Competitiveness, Panagiotis Mitarakis, the second criminal case-file is against the former Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Christos Spirtzis and former Minister of Finance Euklidis Tsakalotou. The third penal case is against the former Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos, and the fourth criminal case-file is against the former Deputy Minister of Economy and Economics Nicholas Lega. Also, ladies and gentlemen, with his letter of 29-10-2019 to the President of the Parliament, the Member of the Parliament, Aetolokarnania and Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, Mr Spilios Lebanese, asks that he be given a short-day absence from abroad from 5/11/2019 to 7/11/2019. Giorgos Karougalos, MP SYRIZA B1' North Athens Sector by letter from 30-10-2019 to the President of Parliament, asks him to be granted a few days' absence permit from abroad from 1-11-2019 to 3-11-2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u26	The House approved the requested permits. [[The above-mentioned licences, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice, are presented here for the minutes.]] We continue with the fourth question number 142/25-10-2019 in the first cycle of the H' Vice President of the Parliament and Members of Parliament B3' South Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The operation of the Naval Hospital of Crete". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr Alkiviadis Stefanis. Here, Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for being here to answer the timely question we had to ask because of the disruption that, as you can see, has also created in local society, but also in the immediate interests of the Naval Hospital of Crete. According to well-founded complaints that have come to our attention, this hospital has a direct need to staff with medical staff, because because of the existing subscribing it fails to meet its destination. On the basis of this state of affairs, which cannot be accepted by anyone, there was a decision, and I will be allowed to say that I was unable to believe, until I saw the relevant document published at the "Parakritika.gr", which is sent to the Navy General Staff and notified to the Liberties Associations, the Police Directorate of Chania, the Central Port Authority and the Fire Service. Obviously, on the basis of the above, there are serious risks - you understand, I imagine - because of the inability to admit that the hospital has to respond to the care needs that are consistent with the purpose of its operation. It is also obvious that this situation creates a great deal of concern and frustration in the cycle of soldiers, but also their own families, and certainly, a very bad impact on society. So I'm asking you the questions. On what criteria was it decided to exclude the security teams, as well as the returnees from emergency medical treatment? Is there any intention of restoring the elementary function of the Naval Hospital of Crete and with what immediate action will it take? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, thank you. Madam President, first of all I would like to thank you very much for the question, because for the first time I have been able to attend the cradle of democracy and to express the views of the Ministry. I also convey the morning from the Minister. The reason I answer is because it belongs to the range of my responsibilities the whole management of health. Indeed, on the 21st of the month the document you describe came out. As soon as it became known to the Ministry, the next day the order was ordered to lift the order, the withdrawal was made orally and in two days it was also made with a document. So we see that before your question was tabled, from 22 to 23 of the month, we were aware of the fact and had taken that order back. Why was that order given? During this period - you know that the military hospital in Crete is the only military hospital in the region - there are increased activities, due to educational activities and because of our involvement in a thousand other issues. This made the administration issue this order which, as I said, we took it back. So what you described has been restored and there is no cause for concern. The second thing I want to say is this. You described a hypotension condition. On the contrary. Under the orders given in the summer and already implemented, staffing increased by two people. A doctor, a tenant of service, was also added, who is a doctor from those serving their term of office. We are very proud of the work carried out not only by the hospital of Crete, but also by the rest. Instructions have already been given to the National Defence General Staff to see its further reinforcement and to be sure that the matter has been fully restored. Thank you for your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Minister. Madam President, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, we were also aware that you had already withdrawn this decision, and we consider that to be a good one. One cannot say anything different, but it is not so simple, because in the relevant document you sent, the following is stated: "From now on, the hospital's emergency services will only serve as much as possible the civil servants of the Armed Forces, due to the lack of doctors and staffing of the TLP as possible." Minister, we're talking about an emergency department, which means it can be literally about a matter of life or death. It is purely medical and is never treated administratively, which makes it, I would say, even dangerous. Let me remind you that on the road or on a cinema or anywhere, as on a ship, if there is an emergency and any doctor who is there and refuses to give his help, and at some point he finds out that he refused it, he may lose his license, let alone if he had invoked any particular feature of it for his help and refuses to provide assistance. I would ask you, therefore, to pay particular attention to the questions I am going to ask you and specifically to answer them, because I will try to get these answers in every way. So I would like to ask you from the outset who is responsible for signing this confidential document and by whose order this document has been written, on the basis of what suggestion has become the selective blockade - selective, be careful! - the provision of services to the press and in what sense, because the directive contains strong samples, in my view, of a racist attitude and, although it does not exceed them, the limits of the breach of duty. I would like you to inform me of the relevant suggestion you have had on this. This document orders the commander and all the existing ones to violate their duty and oath of Hippocrates. If the commander obeyed this order without making a reference, I assume that he will be checked for the above, otherwise the report he has made that order will have to be communicated to us. From whom and when, if not by the commander, have a report been drawn up which detailes the invoicing shortages of doctors? You said you took two or three people, I think. I would ask you, too, to make this report known to us. [[This is where the ending bell of Mrs Vice-President's speaking time is ringing.]] The withdrawal shall be based on the fact of the immediate and full coverage of the gaps. Do you think these two doctors are covering all those gaps that the hospital has? What if it happened, when? Because they take a few days between the issue and the revocation, that is, make a decision and withdraw within two days and put two additional doctors in. If not, why is the assessment of a lack of doctors and this unacceptable solution that has been given wrong? Hasn't anyone informed you that there is this shortage? If it was wrong, has the Armed Forces already been issued for the entire procedure and handling of the naval hospital and hence the Armed Forces, and indeed, in the eyes of their more sensitive staff, namely those who served it for years and are now in retirement? Not to mention the unacceptable event facing uniforms as beta people, such as police, port, fire-fighting, creating an unacceptable and dangerous situation for the unity of the entire team that serves the country's perception of segregation. So I guess by closing down, and I would like to believe that the revocation is perpendicular and also refers to everyone's families, as was the case before. I am waiting, Minister, with interest. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much. You spoke of racist treatment. This is the only thing that happens in our hospitals. And I'd like to ask you, whenever you want, without any warning, to let me go to any hospital you want. That is where you will see not only the non-Russian treatment itself, but the opposite. I would like to inform you of this, which everyone knows. First of all, our hospitals are not only facing the staff that are in uniform. I'd like to stand on this with a lot of emotion. They deal with all the inhabitants of the remote islands. Each permanent resident in Kastelorizo, Oinousses, Agathonisi, Pharmaconissi and others has the opportunity to go to hospitals and is treated with enormous respect there. Diplomatics, the officials of the House, the fire department, the police, the port and their families, and every citizen who is insured or uninsured can come to our hospital. And I'll tell you something else. It takes little attention to the way you treat our health workers, because every day it exaggerates and exaggerates for the sake of the social system. These people, health and nursing staff, give themselves to the community as a whole. So we have to treat them with great respect, as society treats them every day. If you go to a hospital and ask if they have a letter from someone who congratulates them on their work, they will show you a hundred such letters because we are everywhere, we are on every remote island. Go to the intersectional islands, there's a military doctor there. Any ERC hospital that needs to be covered by the Armed Forces. The work is high, and we must all recognise it. I and the Minister, as the political leadership of the Ministry of National Defence, are extremely proud of the work produced and is Greek society for that. Your labels are respected. We'll see them and see if we can fix some things somewhere. And thank you for that. Be well, good morning. My invitation is valid.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Minister, but you did not answer my question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Before entering the legislative work, according to the agenda that has been distributed, and because we do not see all the rapporteurs, we will be interrupting for two or three minutes until the rapporteurs are notified and they will come to the Chamber. I would also ask the Members, who are here by their parties, to inform the rapporteurs so that we can start as quickly as possible to speak more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter LEGISLATIVE WORK Only a discussion and a vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: 'International Protection and Other Provisions'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 30 October 2019 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and amendments. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u37	The House has agreed. Before I give the floor to the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Panayia Kapato, for 15 minutes, I would like to remind you that, until the end of the suggestions by the first two rapporteurs, you can with the electronic cards - open the system immediately - state those of your colleagues who want to take the floor to speak. I also have an announcement to make to this House. The Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: "About International Protection and other provisions". Mr. Cappato, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. General Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate and vote in plenary on the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection entitled "Approximately International Protection and other provisions" is the result of a substantial thorough and useful dialogue within the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice. At all stages of its processing in the committee, we had the opportunity to discuss the draft law, improving it and forming a modern and enforceable framework. The resulting text reflects the need to modernise and update Greek legislation on migration - refugee issues through targeted and innovative institutional interventions. Firstly, fragmentation of diffuse provisions and legislation is replaced by a clear, coherent and easily accessible legal framework. Secondly, the many unstructured Greek asylum system is corrected and gives its place to an improved and remodeled system. Thirdly, we are redesigning a system in line with the requirements of the Union legislator, which does not simply proclaim, but in practice respects the rights of asylum seekers. Fourthly, we are adopting clear and specific rules as to what applies to the Greek legal system and how it applies in the field, taking into account the need for asylum seekers to understand the procedure, under pressure of the difficult situation in which they come. Fifthly, we eliminate the consequences of a piece of legislation leading to a large number of applicants in a meteorological situation. The slow rates, complex procedures and inefficient management worked as a brake on the compelling of asylum seekers from this uncertainty situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u39	I'm sorry, Mr. Comrade. Please, ladies and gentlemen, do a little quiet so that you can follow the rapporteurs. How can you possibly contradict the arguments of the rapporteurs? Please, a little quiet! Keep going, Mr. Cappato.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u40	The interventions which I have mentioned enable public policy and the institutions of the Greek state in the field of immigration and refugee, in particular international protection, to as far as possible in the shortest possible time. As instruments for implementing these guidelines, the draft law includes the European Parliament Directives, existing national and European case-law, the rules of good legislation that clear and specific arrangements adopt, as well as the provision for continuous and at every stage informing applicants of their rights and obligations. In particular, the bill concerns the recognition and reception of third-country nationals or stateless persons as beneficiaries of international and subsidiary protection, common procedures for granting and withdrawing the status of international protection, as well as rules on the judicial protection of applicants. Having been mentioned in detail and in detail the contents of the draft legislation in the committee's meetings, it is useful to highlight the points that form the essence of our intervention. Article 24 describes the procedure for granting residence permits for beneficiaries of international protection and provides for the distinction of their duration on the basis of the type of status granted, refugee or subsidiary protection. In particular, there is a three-year duration for recognised refugees, while for beneficiaries of subsidiary protection a one-year initial licence with a two-year duration for each renewal. At this point it is worth stressing that in the identification process in accordance with Article 39, an assessment of whether the persons entering is vulnerable, while at the same time only those who are subject to the explicit registration of the categories of persons identified as vulnerable benefit from the specific reception conditions is carried out. Article 46 provides expressly that a third-country national or a stateless person seeking international protection shall not be detained for the sole reason that he has applied for international protection. The second paragraph of that article refers to detention on the basis of an individual assessment, for one of a number of reasons: first, to establish the identity, origin or nationality. Secondly, the risk of escape. Thirdly, since it poses a risk to national security or public order. Fourthly, there is a significant risk of escape. Fifth, the right to enter the ground. It is also important to provide for Article 47 with regard to the conditions of detention for applicants, namely the explicit provision of their separate detention by prisoners under the ordinary criminal law. In Article 50, we need to point out the provision for the submission of incoming third-country nationals or stateless persons in medical examinations to prevent the transmission of diseases. Article 58 describes the general principle for vulnerable persons, such as, for example, minors, disabled persons and the elderly, as well as the assessment of their specific reception needs. At this point it is worth pointing out the essential contribution made by representatives of operators in the debate in the committee, since in the context of legislative improvements, direct relatives of shipwreck victims, parents and sisters are added to vulnerable persons. In Article 68, entitled ‘Entry of Applicants - Exemptions’, it is appropriate to point out that applicants in accordance with paragraph 1 may remain in the country until the procedure for examining the application for international protection has been completed to the first degree and it shall be prohibited to remove them in any way. Article 70 requires the provision of an applicant’s card to be valid for a period of six months with the possibility of renewal until the examination procedure for the application for international protection has been completed. The right to access a lawyer or other consultant at his own expense is also provided for, and the way in which the applicants are to record the identity data and the possibility to modify them at all stages of the examination, but is not a reason to delay the procedure. The completion of the examination procedure in the first instance in accordance with Article 83 shall be mandatory to six months, with the possibility of extending three months in the event of mass arrivals by foreign or stateless persons. For the accelerated procedure, the examination shall be completed within 20 days, with the possibility of an extension of 10 days in accordance with the above mentioned case. A number of criteria are provided for this process in order to classify a country as a safe country of origin by drawing up corresponding lists. With regard to the secondary procedure, the decisions which may be relied upon in the appeal procedure before the Refugee Authority shall be laid down, the compulsory representation of the applicant or, together with the proxy lawyer, and the time limits for the decision to be taken in five categories, with a maximum time limit of three months. Finally, Article 86 sets out the cumulative criteria according to which a third country is considered safe and includes, inter alia, non-threatening life and freedom, the absence of a serious risk of physical harm, the risk of cruel and inhumane treatment, and the possibility of requesting refugee status. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of the management of migration and refugee flows is the greatest management challenge in our country's modern history. Following the economic crisis, immigration has been the biggest problem in the past five years. As the Prime Minister, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has pointed out, over time the issue is becoming increasingly migrant. Management of migration flows will continue to be a major issue for many years around the planet. The institutional framework and legislation regulating policy in this field is a key tool for the successful management of the issue by Greece. The international protection bill of the Ministry of Civil Protection is a decisive interference in the legislative framework. The Greek state is in a legislative marathon, which must win, so that it does not remain behind international developments, so that it does not suffer the negative consequences of the phenomenon for the cohesion of our society, so that it does not have to follow what is agreed by other countries. This can only be achieved with a modern and enforceable legislative framework. The harmonisation and modernisation of Greek legislation in this matter is required to be permanent. This is, moreover, an international, acute and complex problem. Yesterday's meeting of the five largest countries of the European Union and the statements by the German Minister for Foreign Affairs on the forthcoming changes to the Dublin Regulation underline the need for constant vigilance in adapting us to international developments. In order for Greece to be at the negotiating table, it must first have its own credible national immigration policy. Today's bill is in the right direction. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not forget that as a basis for any debate we have on Greek society and the need to maintain its cohesion. Every legislative initiative that does not take into account the needs and problems of the majority of the Greek people is doomed to fail. The aim of hosting refugees who come to Greece in human conditions can only be served through an immigration policy that is accepted by society and is not considered an obstacle to the daily lives of people. There can be no rational management of immigration when it seems to the Greek citizen that the laws of the Greek state do not apply, that there are infringements without consequences. We need to hear people's cry of agony in the Eastern Aegean. We are talking about regions in the country with well-known characteristics in the field of national security. There cannot be, for example, without rules and without conditions for the free movement of people in our towns and villages. These are people who in many cases the Greek state does not even know who they are. It is not only the problem of any phenomena of invasiveness, but the self-evident condition for the Greek state to know what is happening on its territory, especially in remote areas. This is necessary for both Greek citizens and asylum seekers. With the lawlessness and chaos that existed since 2015, we have led local communities to despair. We were turning one group of immigrants against the other. We left unprotected children and women, north of criminal elements that act uncontrollably on hospitality structures. We were unwittingly helping us out illegal trafficker networks. This cannot go on. We are often accused of being opposed to reduced reflexes on humanity. If, ladies and gentlemen, what has happened over the last four and a half years in Greece had something to do with humanism, we probably lived in another country. The bill comes to cure a great weakness in the previous legislative framework, from which it became clear that the first victims were immigrants and refugees themselves and especially the weak. They were afflicted and lived in inhumane conditions. They were forced to wait for years to find out what their fate will be. They were victims of all kinds of crime and abuse networks. If we want to help them, they must enter under the protective umbrella of a legislative framework that ensures the application of the rule of law for all. Any refugee who really needs help, whoever really cares about the international protection process, whoever really belongs to vulnerable groups will benefit from the bill we are voting on today. However, any guest in our country will now have an unfavourable attitude. For example, if asylum seekers do not cooperate with the Greek authorities, the procedure for examining their request will be interrupted. The bill comes to correct the big mistake made in 2015 and cost Greek society dear. Greece since 2015, due to the mismanagement of the SYRIZA government, has become the easy target of the trafficker networks. The first step towards reducing migration flows is to stop Greece being considered the easy target, a field of enrichment of criminal trafficker networks. In order to achieve this, Greece should not be an attractive country for those operating the system and international law, without actually being entitled to international protection. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece, with this draft law, for the first time, acquires a single international protection law, incorporating all the directives establishing the common European asylum system that governs the management of the migration flows and the people we host in our country. The draft law we are discussing is necessary and timely, a draft law which is necessary because it faces a real problem, a draft law that is timely, because it takes account of the latest developments in this international phenomenon. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a moment, Mr President, please. But we must at the same time be realistic. The introduction of the law into Greek law will not solve, by magic, such a complex problem as migration. Nevertheless, it will be a great step forward so that Greece is no longer considered to be a country without immigration policy, a country which simply adapts to what is decided between Turkey and other European countries, without having its own policy. We must bring back the security and respect of the laws to Greek citizens and especially to the afflicted local communities. Greece generously provides the traditional hospitality of our people in conjunction with the absolute respect for international law for those who seek asylum in our country. As rapporteur for the bill, I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to support the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection. It is an important intervention at the heart of the problem, which will help all Greek citizens, our state services, refugees and immigrants who are hosted in our country. It is a timely and necessary legislative initiative for Greece, a law of a country of modern, effective and ambitious. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. The rapporteur from SYRIZA, Mr Psychoyos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the refugee and immigration issue is a multifactorial and complex issue and we must see it in the European and international dimension. Recently, the UN Marrakesh Pact has shown the way for how we should manage it. However, the previous government, through its initiatives both in the European institutions and in the international organisations, has exhausted all the instruments and with the countries of the south in order to assume their responsibilities and make a balanced distribution. We must therefore understand that this issue is international, not bilateral, and we must address it in this way. Unfortunately, the Government of New Democracy from the charges on SYRIZA for an attractive model, as was heard before, for refugees, went to geopolitical reasons. He realized that the geopolitical reasons are the ones giving birth to the refugee. Also, for the New Democracy, this poses a national threat, which reverses the scope and the burden that we have to bear on this issue. The recent initiative in Malta, with countries that have taken the initiative to activate relocation and family reunification processes, as was partly the case in previous years with the SYRIZA government, is in the right direction, and the country must enter these connections and claim it, rather than demand it. But the moves of the New Democracy from the very beginning seem to show in the opposite direction. The abolition of the Ministry of Migration Policy - which, for both symbolism and coordination reasons, has provided in recent years - but also a rhetoric by some of its officials on invaders, people who do not need humanitarian aid, as well as the irresponsible parallels - unfortunately, by an oral Prime Minister - of refugees with the Persians in the Naval battle of Salamis or the 'good practice' - within introductory terms - of Ellis Island, obviously and do not help in the direction of this management. Unfortunately, some New Democracy officials even adopted the unacceptable Greek Solution proposal for the operation of special areas on landslides. For two and a half months you've been looking at the islands' Gypsies fill up, even though they had five and a half thousand, when the SYRIZA government left and a thousand five hundred vulnerable in the country, because you thought you could hide the problem under the carpet or because it was part of a reasonable deterrent from the image that our islands are breathing. Let us not forget, too, that in the last four and a half years New Democracy and many of its Members have foiled the reactionary reflexes in local communities, when the SYRIZA government has been doing what New Democracy is now doing, namely installing hospitality structures throughout the country. Of course, there is no relaxation, ladies and gentlemen, or chaos, when you observe European and international law. We must be careful of what we say. Also, when we find mayors toward us or groups of extreme right-wings, which even impose their will on the government and prevent the establishment of refugees, this is something that unfortunately needs to be restored. How will it be restored? It will be restored, Mr Ministers, by going to the Ministry's officials, as we did - because solidarity has prevailed in recent years - the representatives of the First Reception Service, the Secretary-General and the MPs, but also a movement of solidarity, in order to explain to local communities the necessity of this phenomenon, the urgency and the interaction, as was done in the majority of cases with local communities. This is a refugee policy. Otherwise, we will go to social automation and social cannibalism, which is not the beginning of the majority of Greek society and we must be clear. Let's go to the bill now. This is a bill that you say is codification. In no case is it codification because codification means that I am putting all the provisions we have had so far into the concept of reception. It means that I have put to asylum all the provisions that were in place so far, that I have put in the procedural guarantees all the provisions that were in place so far. I am not making strands of directives and I also choose articles outside the directive to go through my plan of deterrence and detention. In fact, you will also go with the legislators to step on two boats - we have told the committees - that of the extreme right and that of legality. Unfortunately, these concepts are incompatible. Go and turn this into migration. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Leclerc, the High Commissioner, has recently written an article in which he is using the data from the Asylum Service - 1 October - which you have also made public and which demonstrates that the vast majority of those who come to the country are from war zones and are entitled to asylum. I am presenting this article to Mr Leclerc in the Minutes. [[At this point Mr Georgios Psychogios presents for the minutes this article, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, this also creates a problem in the international image of the country, because the Visegrad countries will come along with other well-beings and they will say that it is an immigration issue, manage your own, it is not a refugee. It is wrong and weakens the country internationally. It is therefore laid down in the bill for drawing up lists of safe third countries and countries of origin which will be used to categorise the obligated and, as a matter of priority, the de facto and a refugee profile which is contrary to the Geneva Convention. The host is expected that if the citizen of a third country refuses to move in order to complete his identity process, it is assumed that he does not want to be subject to the provisions on international protection and we are leading to rejections. In other words, the admissibility of compliance is linked. It is another thing to say that asylum seekers also have obligations to reject applications. This is a shot against the Geneva Convention and we will be condemned for that. You are also putting a number of procedural obstacles to the first and second degrees of examination of asylum claims. Reading the bill and composing the puzzle of individual provisions, one would say that you are constantly looking to find triples at every stage of the process for asylum seekers, in a punishable way, so that they are increasingly less and less able to take asylum. In fact, I will also use a phrase by Mr Kumucaku in a committee which, by addressing some colleague, said that 'You have in mind and a obsession with asylum seekers'. We are not obsessed with asylum seekers. You are obsessed with asylum seekers, and that comes from the bill. Indicatively, the problematic points are the following: Two speeds of residence permits, international protection for three years and subsidiary protection for one plus two years - and administrative and substantive problems - rapid procedure for the categories of vulnerable groups, which is therefore a reduction in the guarantees and therefore a fair and individualised crisis in the demand. There are provisions linking the configuration, as we have said, with the examination of the request and they deem it manifestly unfounded, as well as the famous article 77 that puts the Police and the Armed Forces in the examination of asylum claims and reminds us of the seasons before 2013, where 1% of asylum seekers took international protection. This has to be withdrawn, as it is unacceptable. For the second degree and the judicial procedure, you have fortunately understood that the second degree cannot be abolished and you have maintained it. But what did you do? You put three Judges in the position of one of the High Commissioners. This was condemned by the bodies and organisations. You also made the monolithic composition. However, as the Association of Administrative Judges has said, it is very likely that the unique composition of an administrative body will be considered as unconstitutional. We told you in the committees, but you haven't changed it. It is planned that the personal presence, which by means of legislative techniques, does not change in its essence. It is an obligation for self-determination and poses a problem with the distances that exist. You want an appeal document, and you know well that most asylum seekers neither have access to a lawyer nor can make an appeal document. This also has an impact on rejections of requests. Of course, there is also a shortening of the deadline for applying for annulment from sixty to thirty days, which further cuts down and makes the right to actual appeal difficult. I would therefore present to you the memorandum from the Association of Administrative Judges detailed in all of this. Obviously, their credibility and validity are not questioned. [[At this point, the Member, George Psychogios, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] With regard to the concept of vulnerability, the category of people with post-traumatic stress is now being abolished by vulnerable groups. With your legislative improvements, the category “direct shipwreck victims” is now introduced to replace the post-traumatic stress. But does he replace it? Is it in the vulnerability protocol that has been concluded in recent years? Is it in the line the agencies said? Is it also in our proposal that this should be distinguished by public bodies with specialist scientists? It's not. Also, vulnerable people now enter the normal procedure and what is created is that they lose the possibility of an abstract procedure and therefore their rights are limited. Let us now refer to unaccompanied minors. In the process of unaccompanied minors we have to observe the following: when we were told by Law 4540/2018 that unaccompanied minors should not be detained, rather than in the last need, you are now going backwards. This is not just in the face of the spirit of the directive and international law. It comes across both European law and the condemnations suffered by the country, but of course also in the campaigns of the Council of Europe. Indeed, the Commissioner for Human Rights, who is in the country today, has conquered this legislative initiative and has spoken of serious cuts in rights and a return to what has been conquered in Greece in recent years. But you are not expressly mentioning anywhere and Law 4554/2018 about the commission of unaccompanied minors. This is because you have voted against specific articles in this bill, or because you do not want to be in line with what UNICEF says, which gave us its memorandum. You are among the minors in the accelerated asylum procedure, and with the legislature instead of making it, I think you're making it worse. You categorize them completely arbitrarily, depending on their age and whether they are from a safe country or whether they are dangerous to public security. As you know - because you know - this works problematicly and runs counter to the fundamental provisions of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. With regard to the rights of asylum seekers and the integration of asylum seekers, free access to public health services is restricted and, in fact, only provision is made for access to specific services - first aid and serious diseases - while AMCA is not granted to asylum seekers, but only to the Immigration Health Card, which is precisely because it has many administrative problems and has come to a minimum, we have incorporated asylum seekers into the Uninsured Act. As far as education is concerned, Article 51 provides only for minor asylum seekers, instead of minor citizens of third countries, as we defined in No 4540/2018. You thus overlook the universality of the right to education and the obligation of the state to provide access to all children. However, you have also made a legislative improvement, in which you say about the material conditions of reception to the families of applicants who do not comply with the requirements of education that this will cause a manifestly unfounded request. We say that we are in favour and agree to the participation of the children of asylum seekers and refugees in education, and that is why we have sent over 12 thousand five hundred children in our schools in recent years, with great battles and efforts. But it's another thing to put it in a punishing dimension. It is another thing to put it in place without that possibility, since neither the transfer nor the AMKA nor the teachers are involved in supporting it indirectly and making cuts. As regards the withdrawal of recognised refugees, you put it from two months to six months. It is a positive development. However, it must also be combined with the prospect of integration of these people through education and through work and access to health. Work, of course, is limited, since asylum seekers will not have the right to access work from their request, but after six months, which will enable them to be exploited and, of course, is also in breach of the European Social Charter. I shall now refer to the detention. You are basically bringing a bill to the House to discuss, which is mainly aimed at the general detention of asylum seekers. With Article 46, which provides for the reasons and the reasons for the detention, but also the legalities you are tabling, you are, in fact, putting in place a package of guarantees, which is not sufficient because the combination of Article 46 with Article 39 and Article 116 leads with mathematical accuracy to what you have, moreover, announced, the general detention of asylum seekers since the first moment of reception with the creation of new centres on the islands, perhaps for thirty-six months, when eighteen months is the ultimate detention for criminals. Of course, I don't think you want to go back to the times of 2012 and 2014, where the conditions in the Procedural were disgusting for both the prisoners and the workers, police stations were full of prisoners for months and the country had been condemned multiplely for these policies. That is why I am presenting in the Minutes the collection of the main decisions - it is a two-digit figure - by the European Court of Human Rights, which has condemned us in these circumstances for a violation of Article 3 of the ECHR. [[At this point Mr Georgios Psychogios presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So let's go to what we've heard in the committees. Ladies and gentlemen, I can say that in the committees the Minister was sincere in this matter. It says "Refunds are not easy. Indeed, someone can't come out and say we're making massive returns and meaning it. It is very difficult on all sides and for this reason a European refund mechanism must be requested, once the applicants have exhausted their legal means.' Of course, we have heard voices that were opposing, even from Mr Avramopoulos, who connected crime and the jihadists with refugees and immigrants. We have also heard fellow Members say whether they will go to their own regions in order to know whether or not they will be able to prevent this from happening within the committee, but also where they say that international law can be applied in accordance with the circumstances and according to the context. As far as your amendments are concerned, I would like to speak about an article which is in the first amendment and refers to the conventions which had to do with the functioning of the Ministry of Migration Policy and the needs of reception and housing. Ladies and gentlemen, when SYRIZA had brought a corresponding paragraph and a corresponding provision on these conventions, by putting a specific objective and specific area in which these were spent, you had lifted up the universe. Now you bring it without determination and without details, and you are not apologizing for it, as well as for the supply of the FIFG. That's where you made another move. As you transferred the anti-crime policy to the Ministry of Civil Protection, you are now coming to restore this damage suffered by the state and the delays for months. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that we in the SYRIZA are and will be supportive as Members, as a party, as part of the solidarity movement, in the efforts that are being made to manage the refugee - immigration in a way that is legal and humanitarian. However, we are against bills such as this, which invest in deterrence and detention, violation of rights, but also do not contribute to the long-term management of the refugee. That is why, beyond all the others, there are political differences. And as the left, we incorporate the rights of refugees and immigrants into the conquests of the people's movement, not from sensitivity or charity, but from a deep conviction that these are a basic prerequisite for equality, democracy, social cohesion and emancipation. I am therefore proud of this step forward, both to our colleagues and to our Members and to the previous government, which despite the mistakes and omissions he has made, has given a huge battle to put man and solidarity above all. For us this is unnecessarily binding, and this will continue to be done within and outside the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u43	The list of speakers is now closed. For one more minute if anyone's forgotten can state, or in one minute the list is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory of the Parliament, since they have previously participated in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation, twenty-one student and two educational attendants from the 8th Municipal School of Agios Dimitrios. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, some eighty-nine, ninety-speakers have been registered. If we calculate the time of seven minutes in conjunction with the speeches of the Ministers, the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups and the Parliamentary Representatives, it will take about sixteen and seventeen hours. So I suggest that all the speakers, with the approval of this House, should speak for five minutes so that there is a balance. And keep the five-minute. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u44	To go tomorrow, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u45	This has been decided by the Conference of Presidents and the matter is over. Does this House agree for five minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u46	We do not agree, Mr President. Plenary Session decides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u47	It has been proposed by the Conference of Presidents and this has been approved.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u48	Will you deny us the floor, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u49	The speakers will be finished, we will be in touch with the Bureau, the Bureau will be in contact with the parties and we will see it. By the end of the day the speakers will have decided, and we will say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, I would ask the floor for a minute on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u51	Here you go, Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u52	Without wishing to delay the rest of the parties and the other rapporteurs of the parties, I have to say to you this: we are talking today about an extremely serious bill, which concerns an issue that we shall have before us in the coming years. It is not a matter that can be closed from one day to the next. It has extremely complex legal and real aspects and I believe that five minutes are not enough, nor is there any special reason to speed up the process. You can give the solution, saying that the debate will continue in plenary tomorrow so that there will be time for all speakers and to all Members and to the Presidents of the parties and Members of Parliament to develop their political and legal thinking with the comfort of the complexity of the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u53	I just said at the outset what was done at the Conference of Presidents, and there are Vice-Presidents here from all the parties who can assure you that the Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 30 October to discuss the draft law at a single sitting in principle, articles and amendments and I asked if the House could agree. The House has said that it agrees. Now, if it has to be withdrawn or not, the President will be informed...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u54	It's a serious bill, we want to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u55	I say what the Rules of Procedure say.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u56	To put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u57	The vote was taken at the beginning of the day. In order to withdraw this decision, the President will be informed, we will contact the parties and the speakers will come back to us by the end. Mr. George Kamine has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. I would remind the House that the consultation deadline given for such an important bill was short, only four days and even a weekend. This must be taken very seriously into account. And precisely with this determination of the importance of the bill we are starting. Ladies and gentlemen, we are still at the beginning of this House's term of office, but I firmly believe that we are now inviting ourselves to discuss a bill which will ultimately prove to be one of the most important of the next four years, because we are facing a phenomenon that is not transient nor is it a matter of individual concern to our country, but has a global dimension. Mass movements of people from underdeveloped or underdeveloped countries to the developed countries are a phenomenon that has come to stay. We need to learn to live with this. This is an unavoidable turning point in the history of humanity, which the developed countries, of course, with them, are also called upon to manage with pragmatism away from ideological prejudices of any colour. What are the actual data that deletes the limits of legislative intervention today? The first is that the Greek society has not yet recovered from the shock of the mass arrival of foreigners manifested suddenly in the summer of 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2015-2016, more than nine hundred thousands of people crossed Greece to other European countries. This initial shock, however, turned into chronic stress when public opinion realised that the state was unable to manage effectively the relatively few tens of thousands of people trapped in the country when the northern borders were closed down. Unfortunately, this inability to manage lasts until now. The second presumption is the undeterminedness of the problem. No one is able to formulate a reliable forecast of how the situation will be shaped even in the near future. First of all, why do these people come together, sometimes and surprisingly, from war zones and, secondly, why Turkey is managing the issue blackmail against us and in Europe, while at the same time increasing the pace of its migration and refugee flows are leading to our islands. The third presumption is that Europe has not yet decided how to deal with the issue. This is a time-consuming embarrassment, the cost of which Greece pays as the first host country. In other words, what one understands is that most European countries are willing to pay us out of hand, as long as we keep the problem away from their courtyards. Fourthly, there is a European but also global legal and cultural acquis that our country is allowed to circumvent only if it puts itself outside the civil society of the civilized nations. These are the basic principles of respect for and protection of human rights, as established by international law, the law of the European Union and the European Convention on Human Rights. The first three elements I mentioned, the management weakness of the administration, the undeterminedness of the phenomenon and the repatriations of the European Union have shaped a climate of distrust and fear in Greek society. This climate is constantly undermining the extreme right-wing demagogers in order to turn fear into anger, which they hope will be politically frustrated themselves, and that is why the fourth pretext of the principles and rules of international law, which is compulsory for our country, is on purpose. Because if you scratch the surface somehow, as genuine nationalists, of course, they are enemies of world civilization and anti-Europeans. How does the bill respond to the three elements that make the problem? I take the view of the European Union here, because the government is being called upon to give a political solution through the European institutions. First of all, it is clear that the effort made by the Ministry to balance the effective management of the problem with the requirements arising from the rule of law. However, this balance is achieved at the minimum allowed by the directives, and in some respects it is not even possible to do so. It is obvious in all parts of the bill that the legislator intends to dissuade, discourage arrivals, but also to strive with constant procedural details and impediments to applicants. There, however, where the objective of deterrent poses a direct problem of human rights violations is the field of administrative detention. There is even a three-year deprivation of freedom, without relying on a judicial decision, which is incompatible with the ECHR and the Greek Constitution. In the field of administrative management, however, the legislator, i.e. the government, takes a great risk. With a view to rationalising the process as a whole, the draft law makes detailed distinctions and classifications. I won't insist on details. Five individual host and identification stages, twelve case divisions based on priority examination and three additional reasons by priority examination shall be established. The border procedures provide for thirteen reasons for examination by the accelerated procedure and eight categories of cases, whereas in the applicant’s receipts, there are several different short and, above all, short deadlines for the validity of the cards, which will require lasting renewals, which will be an excessive burden on public services. We have the experience of the years of the 2000s. Temporary residence permits, then granted to applicants, needed lasting renewal and the services ‘trueed’. All this, ladies and gentlemen, requires constant coordination between the services, as well as a multi-human and very high level of administrative infrastructure, that is, things that are rare in our country. I wish the public administration could respond! However, a problem of administrative competence will also be created in the field of administrative detention as cases of detention can be spectacularly widened. In addition to the long-term detention, as I said before, there is a serious risk of overcrowding prisoners, with both the burden on the administrative structures of the country and the possibility that Greece will again be condemned by the Court of Strasbourg for inhuman and degrading treatment of detainees. Finally, there is also the undeterminedness to which I have referred, namely the uncertainty about the frequency and volume of mass arrivals. The only significant provision contained in the bill in the case of mass arrivals is recorded in Article 90, where guarantees are shrinking to an unbearable extent. These are, in particular, suffocating time limits within which asylum seekers exercise their rights. I fear, however, that even this welfare can prove totally inadequate in the event of extensive mass arrivals. In any case, however, the legislation will not be implemented unless it is accompanied by an operational plan, which, among other things, will provide for and organise the reaction of the Greek state to the three possible mass arrival scenarios. The nightmare scenario, first of all, of 2015-2016, the mid-term scenario of recent weeks and the third scenario, the most mild, the return to small and controlled flows of 2017 and 2018. In any case, however, it is necessary to ensure that local communities are co-operated in order to establish accommodation places for applicants for asylum or to establish detention facilities. It is not enough, Minister, to cooperate with the regional authorities. Well, of course you did. However, cooperation between the mayors must also be ensured. In the final analysis, only the mayor can convince his citizen, who pays a rent from his post, that it is not only fair but also practically beneficial to the entire Greek society, so that the asylum seeker may be housed free of charge. Here, of course, there must be generous compensatory benefits for the communes who work together, but possibly economic counteracts against those municipalities who refuse to fulfil their debt of solidarity, their debt of national marginality, which is borne by us all. It is not possible for the Greek state to insist strongly on the solidarity of European partners, when the country itself tolerates local rulers, who flatter the humbler instincts of their voters. Ladies and gentlemen, although we disagree with many provisions of the bill, we are in favour of it in principle. Once it incorporates European directives, even at the lowest tolerable level of protection for people who are entitled to international protection, we think it is a national obligation to support this effort. As long as I mention a number. At the moment we are talking about the first administrative crisis, there are more than seventy thousand applications for international protection. The numbers are overwhelming. Ladies and gentlemen, the public speech that fuels panic and hatred, the reason that tries to convince society that it is in danger, even if the refugee is efficiently managed, is one reason, which overall undermines government policy, not only today's majority, but also tomorrow's. Anybody who sows winds will at some point reap storms. Today's majority must already have understood something about it. Let us leave the privilege of that to populist demagogues, that is to say, those who have absolutely no sense of political responsibility and, therefore, have the luxury of the safest of oppressing ordinary people, sowing hatred, fear and anger. I believe that the democratic forces, the genuine democratic forces, which I of course include the New Democracy, will henceforth form a public speech, which will, of course, balance between rational management and even the necessary strict management of the refugee problem, but will hold up the banner of humanism, the flag of the European Union's values, because otherwise we are opening the way to the forces of fear, hatred and retreat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u59	Thank you too, Mr Kamine, and especially for keeping time. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the Parliament, and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", forty students and students and two educational attendants from the 5th Glyfada High School (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, on the subject that has been raised before, I would remind you of the Rules of Procedure - Rule 14 - which says that the Conference of Presidents defines the procedure and duration of discussion of draft laws or draft laws, after hearing the opinion and the recommendation of the committee responsible. The Conference of Presidents unanimously decided to hold a meeting. The problem is the minutes. Of course, in practice, this time is always falling.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, I will give you the floor in half a minute. So at the beginning of the debate on this decision of the Conference of Presidents, I asked the House whether it would agree and say 'yes'. Now to withdraw this decision, I said I would consult the President. We may or may not discuss it. I believe, however, that the main thing is to keep time. And for time to come, it has to be reduced, if it's one meeting. And we've decided a meeting. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u62	I want it to be clear that the decision was not unanimous. These decisions are made by a majority in the Conference of Presidents, because also on the SYRIZA side, but if I am not mistaken on the part of the Change Movement and the JRC, it was clearly said that it is not possible within one day to respond to this bill. In the end, of course, the President, by speaking - and by using the fact that there is a majority within the Conference - for reasons which have to do with the country's international obligations regarding the bill, and because the month is now over, this should be the case. And that's where the conversation stopped. For all other things, you should also see whether the Chamber decides by the assumed majority to take responsibility. However, both from the JRC and from the Change Movement - I heard colleagues there yesterday - raised this issue. You were present.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u63	We'll see, Mr. President. I think that one reservation existed in the Minutes, there was no minority. In any case, it is not a matter here to dispute such matters and, in particular, to serious bills. Just keep the Rules of Procedure up. I would also like to say to the President whether an extension can be made, which I see difficult, in accordance with the provisions. All that can be done is to reduce a little the time of the rapporteurs so that all colleagues can speak. That's what I said. And it's been too many times in the past. The reason for this is the special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, Mrs Diamanto Manolakou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u64	I'll start with a rhetorical question. Is it possible for a political system, which has above all the profits of business groups and not the needs of people, to have a policy of protecting and respecting the rights of people who need international protection of their lives and seek asylum? No, it cannot, on the one hand, break the rights and needs of workers at the level of life, health, education, welfare, sport, culture, shrink labour and social rights, leading people's masses to impoverishment, and, on the other, provide and respect what refugees and immigrants have. If that were the case, it would be a contradiction. However, it takes some legislative measures, necessarily because of international law, in particular the Geneva Convention, which was adopted at other times, which was the socialist city and had an influence on the protection and respect of human rights. But many of them, too, are in fact being undermined. Moreover, the difference and supremacy of the socialist system in the field of refugee policy is evident. We have met her when seventy years ago, thousands of political refugees, hunted and outdated after the civil war, young children who had lost their parents from Greece met the hospitality and were embraced by the then socialist countries of Eastern Europe. All political refugees have given work with rights and a human life. All of their children were educated at state expense, learned from Hungarian, Polish, Czech school to write and speak the Greek, mother tongue, Greek customs and education at the best universities. The reversals in the early 1990s were the return of barbarity to the people. Today, these same countries are hostile, closed for refugees and outdated, but open for monopolies and fewer people. But this is capitalism, inhumanity and barbarity. All in all, therefore, the European Union's policy is hostile to refugees and immigrants, collaborating with NATO and the United States, since refugee is a child of imperialist wars and interventions. It therefore only raises up walls and treats them as a source of labour force exploitation, with a choice, to dominate the profits of European monopolies. That is what the Schengen Treaty, Dublin, the European Union - Turkey declaration does. In fact, the European Union is hiding behind the Visegrad countries. However, it is her own policy. Moreover, restrictions on the rights of those who need international protection, namely asylum seekers, are reflected and expressed in the European directives incorporated in this bill. However, the directives have a small degree of flexibility at national level, which you are tightening it up in the name of increasing flows, that is, xenophobia. You hide that the string opens blackmailingly from Turkey, depending on its big matches with NATO, the European Union, the United States, as well as the evolution of competition and interventions in the wider region for the sources and roads of energy resources. It is therefore confirmed by the outcome of the inhuman and dangerous agreement between the European Union and Turkey, which traps refugees and immigrants on the islands. Our islanders are also suffering and there are huge responsibilities for both the New Democracy Government and SYRIZA, because you both support it. What now is to tighten up: Firstly, you are terminating the refugee into immigration. In a massive way, refugees will call them migrants - it is outrageous, it is unfair, it is inhuman - since it is decided to join the asylum system only those who have a refugee profile. So you throw the fundamental principle of personalized examination into trash. You are drawing up a list of safe countries and massively deported people in states where the European Union and our country will be baptised'safe', i.e. rapid rejection procedures and not genuine examination of applications. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] This is an invention of the European Union, it has been legislated in SYRIZA, as well as in their re-promotion, expulsion, in these countries. So, Turkey, which has not incorporated the Geneva Treaty, has only made partial arrangements to implement the agreement with the European Union and, indeed, uses Syrian refugees as a 'policy' for intervention in Syria, is a safe country? No, of course not. Secondly, you are promoting administrative detention, namely imprisonment, which, in fact, can exceed the eighteen-month ceiling, without having made any reproach for these people. Finally, hospitality in open structures becomes an exception. That's how it turns out when 70% of them are women and children. Women and children will be imprisoned. Inhumane terms, too, are the provisions which provide for the country to become a prisoner for tens of thousands of asylum seekers. So, double enclavism will exist in the mainland. Still, you do not consider vulnerable to post-traumatic stress, because they sanctified and risked dying or lost relatives in the shipwreck. Even for vulnerable people, the bill provides that they can be promoted in Turkey, since it does not exclude them from the procedures for examining asylum applications at the border. Thirdly, repressive is your provisions. After registration, where applicants finally remain in the system for examining asylum applications but do not comply with the transfer decisions, their examination shall be considered as a punishment within three days, because it is deemed to have been submitted to delay their removal. We do not exclude it from having such a case. And there are such cases. But that's not the rule. It is also foreseen that the breach of the terms and regulations of the host and identification centres will result in the cessation of housing and, in essence, in the removal of the applicants from them. Fourthly, with regard to access to education, there is compulsory monitoring of primary and secondary education, with a threat of sanctions being imposed on the family if it is not done. I mean, while it's a state case, you turn it into an individual. This is a challenge, when you have not ensured that children are transferred to schools. And we've asked a lot of questions about them. Teachers have not been appointed. There are no special educational tools for children who have another mother tongue. There are no interpreters, no reception classes in the morning schools. Fifthly, you are restricting the concept of family, effectively excluding the members of the family who are entitled to international protection from the regime in various ways. In fact, instead of maintaining the family, there is a breakdown of the applicant's family in practice, since by adulthood the child will now be considered as an adult, who can return to his country of origin, even if the rest of the family remains here. It's tough. At the same time, you are limiting the notion of vulnerability and, indeed, in the event of non-compliance with the transfer to a particular structure, there is an miscarriage from the asylum system. We consider it a dangerous article, because if we do not comply with the regulations on the operation of the structure, it lacks material living conditions, i.e. the elementary pile and roof even on stage. We ask you: With these people what are you going to do? Is he gonna be on the streets? Sixthly, you are putting strict procedures to put extra burdens and to fly out of the asylum system. For example, for simple matters, you are asking for the assistance of a lawyer, when the data themselves say that only 20% of asylum seekers received free legal assistance in the context of lawyers. So you're having a hard time. Even tougher is Article 77. It is a dangerous provision according to which the applicant's interview may also be conducted by police or military staff, provided that it does not wear uniforms and discreetly. We consider it unacceptable and ask for it to be withdrawn. Seventh: You are effectively canceling the right to appeal, since you are reducing the deadlines already too short. You are also transferring the competence of international protection cases from administrative appeals to the Courts of First Instance. The result? We will have first-time judges, judge decisions that have often been extradited by them, sevens, which are taking part in the refugee committees. What does that set out? Rejection of applications for cancellation. However, it is inhumane that within two months of the publication of the law, recognised refugees should leave structures. So, where are these people going? On the way? So did SYRIZA. So visible is the risk of constellation and social marginalisation. We ask: How do you proceed with such a measure, without having obtained accommodation, learning the Greek language, finding work, etc.Huh? Ninth, we regard as negative the gathering of all cases concerning foreign recognition as a refugee in the Athens and Thessaloniki Prefectures. This makes it difficult for the applicants to access, but it will also lead to the formation and concentration of reactive case-law. You are also changing the composition of the appeals, which will be exclusively made by judges, and before there was a representative of the High Commissioner, who is now being prosecuted. We believe that an administrative body is characterised by a judicial body and that is not right. Tenth, in health care there are a number of provisions which are the same as the previous ones. But what's going on? In practice they have shown that they cannot guarantee conditions for the protection of the health of refugees and migrants, so neither have prevention, early diagnosis, effective treatment and, by extension, protection of public health. You expect there to be a health card, the FYROM. However, asylum seekers who have been refused the application will not be entitled to a card. In any case, we consider that the emergency years must be fully covered, but also with systematic, preventive, medical control, vaccination coverage, etc. So we believe that your bill is reactionary and repressive. He presses and expands the way SYRIZA has drawn, who is now trying to be justified in his policy on refugee, to show that allegedly the bill is "the night by day" compared to his own governance. However, most of the provisions of this unacceptable draft are based on measures adopted by the previous SYRIZA government, incorporating directives and agreements of the European Union, with the top of the European Union - Turkey. We call on the people to show no tolerance. They strengthen this and racism and xenophobia. At the same time, there is a risk that these reactionary measures will also be extended to the people's movement, to workers, to the people, that is to say, the declining urban rights of the people. That is why we call on the government to take back these reactionary measures, to close Moria and all the hotspots on the islands. We say 'no' to the European Union-Turkey Agreement that entangles people. To transfer refugees and immigrants to decent accommodation structures of mainland Greece and to their countries of actual destination, with priority in reunification of their families, against Dublin and with all the European Union's directives and agreements. There must be respect for the rights of refugees provided for by the Geneva Convention, respect for the rights of asylum seekers and migrants, and no participation in imperialist interventions. Of course, the Americans - naval bases in our country, which produce refugee and migrants must be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mrs Manolakos, for her special friend, Mrs Manolakos. Following the previous debates on the agenda and on what the former President of Parliament said, Mr Voutsi - I would not raise the point, but he referred to what happened at the Conference - I would like to say to you: firstly, the Conference of Presidents was decided by a majority, even though the President of Parliament said that it was really a cramped programme, that there should be a meeting and that was decided in plenary. For reasons which have been known, the procedure must be completed, as the President has said. On the subject of the debate in plenary, we, Mr President, have put it very well - and I say this so that there are no misunderstandings - on the basis of our experience from the last procedure, of the bill. We have, however, raised specific questions. Firstly, this has helped to prevent many fellow Members and ministers from speaking, but it is possible because they have had many articles, but also the parliamentary representatives of the parties, who have basically tripled the year with the Presidents. However, on the first day all fellow Members went to eight to ten minutes, the next day, as you all know, we went to five and actually didn't speak for forty-five Members. Today the process is specific. Members who are special speakers at the same time will conclude, because there is nothing else we can do. We will have a consensus, because at the moment I see - to inform you - ninety people are registered, which, as you can see, cannot speak, so as to see the time and to be able to speak as many colleagues as possible. I hope, as the President of Parliament has said, that next time we will not find ourselves - we have raised it as a matter - in such a difficult time and we will not turn the process again. The process, however, today will be completed within the day.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u66	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u67	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u68	Just one minute, Mr President, to clarify the position of the Greek Government in this matter. We believe that today's sitting is one of the most critical of recent years. As far as most of us are concerned, therefore, we must also have more time, both the Parliamentary representatives and the speakers and the special rapporteurs. We believe and agree with the proposal that the process should not be completed today. You have already opposed a representative, that the parties' presidents will also come to speak today, so it must be completed today. We are therefore proposing an extension of time for such an important issue. The Greeks and Greeks must listen to what bill Mr Chrysochoidis brings today. Please too for an extension of time. Perhaps this is one of the most important bills in plenary - let me be allowed to express myself and let me not be excessive - from the time of the memoranda. It's very important. It's not enough time. And it is not just the ninety colleagues who have made the time very short. And thirty were colleagues, we should have at least one more day and be able to develop it and analyse it. We therefore agree with the proposal for an extension - and please very much - at such a critical time of the plenary process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u69	I am simply telling you that the parliamentary representatives can take the floor. There's no matter. The decision, however, is the Conference. Your colleagues who were there from the Greek Solution know that too. And this morning, when we were not here, it was ratified by Parliament. I told you my opinion. However, as long as we are late, we will reduce the time of colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u72	Mr. Bukkoro, you have the floor, and then Mrs. Giannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, it is really a very important bill what Mr Chrysochidis brings today. It is an issue which I see is a political controversy, and it is an issue that requires consensus, a national issue which requires consensus in order to deal with it. And it has, if you like, a dynamic character. We don't know how it'll turn out. The Conference of Presidents has agreed to the procedure and this is not the first time. In the latter, too, a very important development bill, as you said forty-five Members did not speak. It happened in all previous years that the list of speakers was not finalised in very important bills. However, it has also been said by the Bureau that there are some very critical deadlines. In addition, I would like to add here that there is the information that the parties' leaders will speak today. The rapporteurs, the Parliamentary Representatives, as you said before, will speak and a number of colleagues will be placed. I think that the parties will be able, despite the pressure of time, to formulate absolutely the whole range of their evenings on this important issue. I think we need to go further and conclude the debate on this really critical bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u74	Now, Mrs Giannakopoulou and then Mr Janakopoulos and Mr Pafilis have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u75	Just a minute, Mr President, I will only need one. A few days ago we discussed here in Parliament a very critical bill, the multi-project development plan. A hundred or so Members had asked to be present and, unfortunately, almost half of them could not be put. We made an appeal at that time, as a Movement of Change, to be able to find a way of putting others in place. Of course, Mr President, I did not hear any particular reactions from SYRIZA at that time. They practically poetized the island. We have the clear view that, when these are so serious issues, such as the immigration we are discussing today, it takes more time, of course. However, we will be able to join in any way the Bureau can ensure that all colleagues in these chairs are placed. But, Mr President, allow me to say this: I have to say that I would expect something better on the SYRIZA side. Those who have managed the way the immigration has been managed over the past five years, those who are responsible for the Moria Columbia College, I would expect them to have something better on the substance and to jar on the substance, not on such issues. Because it's hypocrisy the only controversy you're having, to be if you're gonna talk seven or ten minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u76	Mrs. Giannakopoulos, this then, in your speech. Mr. Janakopoulos, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u77	Honestly, at no time have I used the procedural debate to oppose neither me nor any of the SYRIZA. So I think it was - I think it was not a good comment. To avoid abuse of time, I will say: I think there is no point in insisting on the decision of the Conference of Presidents. We have a treaty to deal with. 90 colleagues have been declared. We have the speeches of the Minister responsible. Perhaps the political leaders will speak. There is nothing to prevent Parliament from giving an extension to the procedure and continuing tomorrow to conclude and vote on the bill or not to vote on the bill, depending on what Parliament will decide. I really don't get it. This argument is also incomprehensible with regard to the deadlines set and discussed in the Conference of Presidents. Again, I am not using this time to discuss the procedure to opposition, but the directives which are supposed to be codified today are already being codified, precisely because the Government's argument is that they are codified. So, what deadlines are we called to monitor or are we called upon to respect? In this sense, I call on the Bureau sincerely to take into account the fact that we have ninety colleagues who have asked for the floor, to give an extension of the procedure and to go tomorrow afternoon or tomorrow afternoon to give everybody time to be given.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u78	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Kamine, it's Mr. Palphilis to speak. If we start the cycle of rapporteurs, however, after the parliamentary representatives, it will not end. Mr Pafilis has the floor and we are completing this cycle and we are moving on to the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u81	I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. I shall begin with a proverb: 'On the deaf door as long as you want to stink'. That's true for everyone and leave them smart. When you were government, it was just the same. The New Democracy did the same. He begged and said that these aren't procedures for regularity, etc. Now that you're here, do exactly the same thing and SYRIZA yells. The same is true of the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u82	Nobody's yelling.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u83	I'm talking about this. You've got us ten years 'head right and goose step'. You brought seven hundred pages of a draft law with urgent procedure in two days. And now come out - mercy! - and you're making a whole fuss.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u84	What kind of trouble? I said one opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u85	You need to know, Mr. Janakopoulos, behave.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u86	I said one opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u87	Why do you answer? Did I interrupt you? What's that now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u88	He's talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u89	It is enough not only of rudeness but also of courage. Isn't that the reality? Am I saying anything that isn't right? Isn't that all these years? We insist on it all the time. I still have two things to say: one is the hypocrisy the Members do not speak. Why don't the MPs talk? I mean, at least everybody. Because the government that has the majority in the Conference of Presidents decides and orders and says it will be discussed in one day. How will they talk in one day? Therefore, see yourself in the mirror. The second relates to deadlines. We are dealing with this - not to say ten - at least in the last seven years. Who's to blame for that? Don't you know when the deadlines are? This applies to all governments. You know. So better plan the government's work. Besides, we're in regularity. We continue at exactly the same rate. So what can I say? May I suggest another day? We have said so in the Conference of Presidents and elsewhere. It doesn't make any sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u90	Thank you. As you know, all this has been transferred to the President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, fifteen students and students and three educational attendants from the Minority Municipal School of Arrians. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue with Mr. Antonis Mylonakis from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after three meetings in the standing committee, in the committee responsible, the government is currently bringing in a bill of a hundred and twenty-eight articles - this is one of the most important for the recognition of third-country nationals or stateless persons, who are stateless as it says, as beneficiaries of international protection, either as refugees or as entitled to subsidiary protection. It is a bill a hundred and twenty an articles, which, instead of solving the problem, will cause enormous damage to Greek society. It is a bill, which, in essence, has been admitted by the Minister to the committees, which incorporates three European Union directives on a problem that our country has and is not the same problem that could have a country, such as Germany or other countries of central and northern Europe. So this bill gives no solution to the huge problem of illegal immigration in our country. And I'm explaining. The spirit of the bill, if anyone reads and studyes it well, is the integration - you have admitted it, Mr Minister - of all foreigners whether they are refugees with refugee profiles that have received refugee status, whether they are illegal immigrants, illegal immigrants - do not fear words, Greek is the word illegal immigrants - in Greek society. That's what he'll do. It will incorporate all this population, which comes in violently, invade our country and remains here. And, indeed, the bill also brings another piece, which we did not know until now. Apart from the refugee profile that an illegal person can have, who will invade our homeland, will now also be entitled to subsidiary protection. What does that mean? If it cannot declare refugee, because it will not be from a country where there is a war, which is civil, which is being persecuted and at risk, then it will be able to declare itself as subsidiary protection and remain here a year with a right this one year to grow if what is laid down in the law really is true. And what's that? That if he returns to his country, if he is from a country that is not entitled to a refugee profile, he will have a problem either because of religious or sexual beliefs in the country he is going to return, that is to say, in his country, or if he is stateless in the country he lives in. The Government of New Democracy as an opposition, before becoming a government, blamed SYRIZA. Why would he blame SYRIZA? Because he doesn't protect our borders. As you know, our country's borders are protected under the Constitution. We can't let anyone who wants to go in freely. Didn't you blame, gentlemen of the New Democracy? Because for the bill that the government is now bringing forward - and you are supporting - if each of you or most of you or not in the presence of others are asked, it will state what we say. In our country there is a special regime right now. Those who come in are trapped and stay in. With this bill, no one leaves the country. Why doesn't anyone leave the country? On the one hand, the birthplace on the islands of those who invade our country, at some point, the government - and that makes sense - to empty the structures of the islands, to alleviate them. So it goes on and it brings them inside. Those who come inside have no right to return to Turkey. That's the one. Secondly, no embassy so far - the Minister is here and said so to date - has not worked so that these people who are not entitled to asylum - and there are too many and no one knows how many people are - can leave abroad. Recently an aircraft had returned to Afghanistan with two hundred Afghans. Isn't that right, Minister? What did Afghanistan do? He didn't accept to take them. So where did they come from? In Greece. That is why the Greek Solution with its Parliamentary Representative, Mr Kostas Heitas, rightly asked for the bill to be analysed in detail. We can't cover everything like that and pass the bills, gentlemen of the New Democracy, because you are now a government, with a hundred and fifty-eight Members. If that's the case, no one should talk, get up and go and pass the bills. You must listen. This bill so far and in the committees it only brings rights to those who are illegally invading our country. So they come to the country inside and have the laws, lawyers, interpreters, everything from the government's side, which does not have the chance to do anything else, as they bring this bill. According to the Minister, in 2016, ladies and gentlemen, they asked for asylum of about fifty-six thousand foreigners who were invaded. How many of them were refugees? According to the Minister, about thirty-nine thousand. How many people returned with the readmission to Turkey? A thousand eight hundred six. How many left, Minister? One hundred and fifteen thousand. So I ask the committee responsible the Minister: 'Mr Minister, where are these two hundred and fifteen thousand?' And I was only talking about 2016. This is the Minister. "We don't know," says the Minister. I think, Minister, that you are not questioning this. How many asylum seekers right now, ladies and gentlemen? Seventy-five thousand. How many on the islands? Forty-five thousand. Of them will come - it says - twenty thousand in the inland. So we bring twenty thousand. Where are we gonna get them? The asylum centre is now being transferred on the basis of this directive, the bill. Where's he transferred? In "KERANIS" here in Piraeus. Five hundred people will come to the building of KERANIS which will make the asylum centre for Athens, because one will be built in Thessaloniki, which has not yet been found where it will take place. One asylum centre on the islands, one asylum centre in Thessaloniki and one in Athens. Yes, sir. And all these thousands of poachers in our country who are not entitled to asylum, because they are not refugees, where will they stay? In closed structures. What are the closed structures? For we, gentlemen of the Left, are humanists, and we want all people to be satisfied, but here in this Parliament at least in the Greek Solution - and I think all of us - sent us the Greek people to protect him and work for his interests, not for the interests of the peoples of the whole world. Welcome, but we cannot live them, the Greek people cannot live. I will now talk about the General Accounting Office of the State that cannot make how much money our country will spend, because everything will be given from the state budget and to be precise, 95%. It cannot, however, be how much education is going to cost, how much hospital care, which, according to the 'Doctors of the World', is going to cost, and we have seen it because the institutions - 62% - if I am not mistaken - are part of the vulnerable groups. Why do they belong to vulnerable groups? Because the Minister was given paper by any doctor from a private doctor who said - and the competent committees accepted this - that he belonged to vulnerable groups. What are the vulnerable groups? The vulnerable groups say they are the ones suffering from post-traumatic stress and psychological problems. So, then, our hospitals should be filled with these people who need medical attention. Because when the other guy has a psychological and psychological problem, he has to see a doctor. So we must stop the hospitalization of the Greeks and only have the hospitalisation of those people who, according to the asylum committees, are entitled to care. Mr Varvitsiotis is not here because he said something earlier to "ANT1" which has touched the Greek people, because Greek society is rising, see Karavomyl, see Brasna and elsewhere. What did Mr Varvitsiotis say the other day? He said: "You know, we have the ability and the power as a government to impose what we decide and the law." What's the law? Go into the social fabric, whoever you want and whenever you want to leave them there as long as you want? Because where are they going? That's right, Mrs. Manolaku of the JRC. Where will those who are not entitled to asylum go? There's a lot of talk about Article 46, ladies and gentlemen, about the detention. Do you know what Article 46 says? It says that detention is entitled not to those who have requested asylum or subsidiary protection, but only those who, in interview - or if any information comes - belong to groups that have a criminal record. So there are few people who will be kept. Let's go to the other articles. Article 21, in conjunction with Article 68: Protection against removal from legal proceedings. Do you know how long the legal proceedings are? It is three to six months in the first stage plus three months of extension and up to twenty-one months until legal proceedings are concluded. Article 28: Accessibility for as long as it stays here, i.e. for ever and equal rights to education, hospital care and elsewhere. Let us go to Article 53, which in paragraph 1 tells us that after six months and after the completion of the procedure from its application, if no decision has been taken at first instance by the competent authority and the delay is not attributed to the applicant, then he may leave, move and work where he finds work. Article 66: The asylum service shall be provided for information and advice in detention centres and points of entry into the Greek territory in cooperation with locally recognised organisations. Who are these locally recognised organisations? Article 68: They remain in our country - I said it beforehand in conjunction with Article 46 - until legal proceedings are concluded. Article 72: The authorities of receipt may refer to medical examinations in public hospitals - what we have said - for psychodiagnostic diagnostics all considered to belong to vulnerable groups, i.e. 66% of those coming in. Article 92: The applicant shall be entitled, after bringing an action for annulment, to appeal to the administrative authorities. Could anyone tell us - why this has not come out even though time cannot be calculated - how much time will these applications, refugees, do in the first instance? And then we'll have second grade. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. Finally, those who are applying for the appeal and after their rejection must have gone to the first instance within 30 days. The report by the State General Accounting Office, ladies and gentlemen, cannot, according to this bill, make up how much this legislation will cost the government and the state budget. In Article 28, education, the provision of medical care in Article 31, access to accommodation in Article 33, social inclusion benefits, the right to inform procedures, lawyers and interpreters, all of this must be calculated. The conclusions, then, are that, with this bill by those who enter our country, internally, on mainland Greece from the islands - of course the islands must be dismantled - they will not leave. We said no embassy cooperates. We need to solve the problem. The Greek Solution and its programme, but also constantly suggests what it has said since the beginning and says it directly: First of all, abolishing the NGOs. Most NGOs consist of people who have caught the spoon and eat in there, the misty goes cloud. This is the procedure for poachers, many of whom are inside NGOs. Secondly, guarding the borders. It is absolutely essential that Evros finish the story, what happened in Bulgaria, what happened in Skopje on the side of the Bulgarians and Skopje. They're opening the borders themselves when they want to get us inside people.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u92	Mr. Mylonakis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u93	I shall conclude, Mr President. Therefore, a wall in Evros does not pass a mosquito and a border guard, speedboats, small flexible boats to make patrols to the Aegean and to our sea borders, and certainly to the poachers extermination, life imprisonment. And the last one, which many hear and creep: the Australian model. Don't bring them, gentlemen of the government, inside. It'll be the national disaster. Not next to the social fabric, not the social fabric. The Greek people are being destroyed. Three, four uninhabited islands, where we will build structures, where they will be able to stay for three to six months and if they are not entitled to asylum to return to their home countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, after consultation, the speaking time from seven minutes is reduced to five to speak as many colleagues as possible. Mrs Bakadima has the floor from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss, following the preparation in the committee responsible, the international protection bill submitted by the Ministry of Civil Protection. This bill attempts to reincorporate into our own legislation three Community directives on the conditions and status of the recognition of citizens of third countries and stateless persons and applicants for international protection, but also to integrate all provisions relating to the asylum procedure. As MERA25, as we said at the outset, we consider that the excessively short consultation time has worked dissuasively for an in-depth discussion and analysis of the draft law. At least, during the meetings of the committee, we were able to listen to those involved in the management of the refugee organisations and indeed draw useful conclusions. We also consider that, instead of facilitating the situation, this bill does exactly the opposite, in practice putting innumerable bureaucratic obstacles, which eventually result in the violation of the rights of immigrants as described by Union law and international conventions. I shall mention, for example, a number of articles which we consider to be still, even after the legislative improvements made by the Minister, to be quite problematic. I begin with Article 20, where refugees suffering from post-traumatic stress are left outside the vulnerable groups, as it seems to us to forget that a large number of people arriving in our country come from war zones. Article 24 reduces the residence permit of the beneficiaries of subsidiary protection to one year, effectively abolishing the three-year Presidential Decree 141/2013, while there is no provision for those who have already received three years under previous legislation. At the same time, the same article considers that it is severely affected by the core of the preservation of family unity and respect for family life. Article 39, by means of its provisions, is even more burdened by the reception and identification service, without any provision of assistance, while at the same time providing for the detention by the Greek Police of those who are pending the appeal against a first-degree rejection decision. Paragraph 1 of Article 45 essentially reiterates the provision of 7 of Law 4540/2018, enabling a regulatory decision to be adopted regarding the imposition of a restriction on the freedom of asylum seekers in a specific geographical area. We believe that, although such a decision is lawful, in line with the provisions of the Constitution, it is essentially in line with the directives on reception, and completely disregards the conditions prevailing in our country, with the incomplete infrastructure and the full suppression of the services. The next article gives birth to and nourishes a climate of insecurity, undermining "the presumption in favour of freedom", making it possible to detain the applicant, despite having tabled a request while in freedom. At the same time, it degrades the Asylum Service to an agency that will simply be informed by the Greek Police. Article 48 provides for the detention of children and minors, which is completely opposed and violating the relevant international legislation, as is Article 37 of the Child Rights Convention. Article 53 introduces the restriction of access to the labour market for applicants since they can have access to the labour market after six months after the application for asylum has been lodged by holding the applicant until then hostage of any state-of-the-art benefits and easy victim of undeclared work. With Article 61, it continues to provide for the certification of victims of torture by public bodies, overlooking something we all know, ladies and gentlemen, that there are no trained doctors who can give such certification in our country, while the treatment of victims of such situations is limited to the provision of medical and psychological treatment, by neglecting or overlooking the need for these people to have complete rehabilitation and the complexity of these incidents. Article 62 raises practical obstacles, abolishing substantial guarantees for examining asylum applications. At the same time, there are many bureaucratic obstacles to the already extremely vulnerable and difficult position of refugees. Paragraph 14 of Article 65 enables an application to be made to be made to a representative of the structure in which a minor is hosted, without there being the assurance that he will always act on the basis of the benefit of the child, since he has no real or individual relationship with it in practice. A little further, Article 70 sets out in six months the duration of the applicant's card, without there being any guarantee that the renewal will take place in time and given the great workload of the services. Paragraph 5 of the same Article conflicts with Article 71(1), since the first paragraph provides for the removal of an application for international protection in the event of a rejection decision, and the second, the applicant's competence to a lawyer for whom a certificate of authenticity is required. How, however, will someone confirm the authenticity of his signature if he has been removed from the only official document that he has, the bulletin? In accordance with Article 77, a reasonable period shall be allowed to elapse, in order to prepare appropriately, by limiting the possibility for vulnerable groups, and personal interviews may, in exceptional circumstances, be carried out, as provided for by the legislative improvement, by personnel of the Hellenic Police or personnel of the Armed Forces, provided that such personnel have received prior basic training, in particular with regard to International Human Rights Law, the acquis of the Union on asylum and the techniques of the interview. We wonder, Minister, what exactly these exceptional circumstances consist of and, most importantly, what basic training will be given to these staff members of the ELAS. How will these positions be actually addressed? The presence of the applicant at all stages of the procedure, as provided for in Article 78, is of the opinion that it will eventually function inhibitionally, leading to a series of rejection decisions. Article 82(5) provides that decisions to a lawyer, the Head of the Regional Asylum Office, where the application was made, the Head of the Host or hosting centre, are to be performed in a fictitious manner. This provision on plastic performance also seems to be in place because it is likely that the refugees will not be informed in good time about the course of their application. Article 86 seeks to incorporate in its current S.H.E.’s decision. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: At this point, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to tell you a little story, so that you can understand how safe Turkey is. In 2016, shortly after the implementation of the European Union-Turkey Agreement on the return of the ‘non-normal’ refugees entering Greece, Diem25, the pan-European movement of which is part of Greece, Mer25, launched a campaign with a unique demand to stop the implementation of this infamous agreement. That's why Sabir Ikbal, a 40-year-old immigrant from Pakistan stood. Sabir lived in peace with his family in a small town and had a small business. He lived quietly, until the day a local group of Islamic extremists attacked, in the area where he lived, a neighbor who was also a Christian asking for the confiscation of his home to become a religious school. Sabir, acting as every man should have acted, made a move: he helped his neighbor, which changed his life forever. He was designated "optional" because he helped another religion, so he had to leave his city. Members of his family and his close family were murdered by extremists, while he, on his journey to Greece, lost his father, who literally died in his hands, not withstanding the hardship and suffering of the journey. Sabir was left for a long time in Lesvos, while, despite the danger of his life, but also his already burdened health, he was found to be returning to Turkey, as it did, to find death, shortly thereafter, in a local prison. Such a country is judged to be safe, ladies and gentlemen, a country that treats refugees as criminals and imprisons them when it does not use them as tools to force the European Union and the West. Returning now to the draft legislation under discussion, Article 90 deletes all the exceptions of vulnerable persons and those who may be subject to the Dublin Regulation, by reunification, and we also have the exclusion from the planned special accelerated border procedure for people belonging to vulnerable groups. With paragraph 11 of Article 116, people belonging to vulnerable groups will enter the closed reception centres without any consideration of how they can live in them, given the circumstances, but also because they will be organized in the standards of pre-refugee centres, which are now under the Greek Police. Article 118 provides for the adoption of an established Healthcare Card from 2016 Otherlands, however, without any reference to the access to healthcare will be made to persons who have not yet received a card, persons who have been removed from AMKA, children for their vaccination, but also persons suffering from a serious illness and may need medical services immediately before they have obtained the applicant’s card. Several times, too, in the legislation under discussion, we have a reference to an expression which we have had enough, in a language that we assume they understand, in points of informing the refugees for procedures relating to their application or detention. So, what language will that be? How will it be ensured that these people understand sufficiently important processes for their future? As MERA25, we believe that refugee is a phenomenon that should be dealt with in a holistic and coordinated manner, with the coordinated efforts of all the Member States of Europe, by the creation of a European asylum office to examine applications and ensure the correctness of the procedures. The painful people who arrive in Greece do not come to Greece, come to European territory, and that is what we should have in mind when we legislate about them. As the manifesto of our mother movement, Diem25's aim is to create a "Open Europe activated by ideas and creative people around the world, which understands that fences and walls are weakness samples and trigger insecurity in the name of security". Let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that the Greeks are well aware of what is going to be a refugee and an uproar. We spent, among other things, the 1922 disaster, the migration of the '60s and the recent Brain drain of the memoranda. Before I close, you will allow me to make a brief reference to subparagraph (b) of paragraph 3 of Article 122 of the recently adopted development law, which incorporates into the eligible categories of projects for funding, from the national development programme, measures for the management of migratory flows, bringing us too many questions about what these actions may be. After all this, and as we consider that the draft law on 'International Protection' of the Ministry of Civil Protection, in practice creates more problems than solves, circumventing points of Union and international law, we can only vote against it in principle and on the whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u96	The Minister has asked for the floor, Mr Chrysochoidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me, after thanking everyone and all for the very good work that has been done in the committee, which has had many meetings, with the hearing of the bodies which have been exhausting, with the incorporation of dozens of proposals that you have put forward, but also of the bodies, to express my thoughts and opinions on the bill we are discussing today in this House. According to the 2019 figures, there are sixty thousand pending applications in the asylum service and two and a half years in order to determine the legality of an applicant's application, fourteen thousand appeals at the appeal authority, more than two years of determination, a thousand eight hundred six returns in four years in Turkey on the basis of the Joint Declaration. These statistics state unequivocally that the legal framework governing the provision of international protection does not work effectively. It does not provide protection, it accumulates applications, it stacks people both in the islands and in the hinterland. It does not discern immigrant and does not return the unrighteous, it testifies the strengths of the structures and local societies and to the Aegean and our islands and Continental Greece. This is a dead end. What is happening today is a dead end. And it's a passive policy. These uncertainties come to deal with the draft law that is currently being introduced before you. Firstly, its aim is to make this unstructured legal instrument of the five laws and a presidential decree, a single structured set of priorities, the examination that allows the administration to work, the judge to judge, on the ground that the applicant for asylum is at last aware of the course of his case. Secondly, to speed up the procedures so that in a maximum of 60 days the basic work of the Asylum Service will be completed and there will be a first decision, known to the applicant, on what is likely to happen with his application. Thirdly, to organise and speed up the returns of those who are refused, to prevent any paradoxical tactics to submit subsequent requests that delay in the relaunch and burden the administration. There are thousands of asylum seekers in the country who, for five or six years, have remained unfinished for exactly the reason I mentioned to you, namely, for the ever-new asylum applications, an ever-changing openness for them and for everyone. Fourthly, to prepare the matter from day one. And the question, ladies and gentlemen, is the integration, integration of these people. It is not just a legal procedure to provide asylum. It is a complex system and I agree with Mr Kamine who has previously raised the question of administration. It is a complex system of actions that the applicant has to know where he is, what will happen, what his rights and what his obligations are. So simple things. The new draft law calls for the asylum seeker to cooperate at all stages of the process. And to ask it, it gives him from the outset, from the very beginning, the possibilities and guarantees, i.e. information, legal protection, care and above all, result, that is, speed. So the purpose of this draft law is to speed up procedures, integrate people into society and ultimately returns. These three main objectives are being promoted to be implemented on a conditional basis - I agree, I repeat, with Mr Kamine - the issue of administration, namely that the public administration will respond, coordinate, produce results and ultimately achieve them. A pillar of the system is the consequence of the examination, i.e. the system for examining applications and the cooperation of the applicant. The plan is ambitious and bold. And I accept that as a competent Minister, because it is a bet for me personally, my colleague, Mr Kumucako, the public administration, the ministry, the government and the country, to be able to run it and implement it. In this direction we are working systematically to cover empty organic positions, to reorganise blind administrative systems, to ensure human working conditions for employees. So we hire four hundred seventy employees to the present Asylum Service, which has six hundred eighty people, to settle infrastructure issues in Athens - in KERANIS, which I told you - in Thessaloniki, in Rhodes and in Yannina, with new buildings to house the services. We reorganise the Service from incomprehensible and dysfunctional administrative patterns. Be careful, it takes six months to approve by the agency an expense, such as changing a car to Samos, there, to the CYPD. Every day, the asylum director needs to speak with thirty-five operational heads in the regional centres and the islands. It's unthinkable, it's revealing, but it's real, unfortunately. I would like to stand up and clarify two issues which have dealt with both the consultation and the debates and the hearings in the committee. First of all, I heard it again for the tenth time, that time was not enough. Why wasn't time enough? Time was sufficient. It's been six whole days. Six days were given to everyone. In fact, it was also heard that it was 'pretextual'. So I want to let you know that they were six days full. I would like to inform you that thirty-two comments have been submitted. So where's the pretext and where's the fast one? Where's that? Three hundred and thirty-two comments, half of which were accepted. Observations of both parties and, above all, of the Citizens' Counsellor almost entirely accepted. Fourteen comments were received from organisations and bodies, mainly on the conditions of detention procedures and unaccompanied minors. I therefore believe that it was a very successful consultation process. The time, ladies and gentlemen, is chasing us and chasing us, because boats in the Aegean Sea do not stop coming and as long as the days are over, because this is how the neighboring country has decided. This year we want to invest him usefully. The passionate chatter, the unstoppable disagreement is not our concern and, above all, it is not allowed. That's not allowed to happen to us. I would also like to make it clear that this is a draft law on the provision of international protection, asylum, as usual. It is not about immigration policy, that is. Because there are many issues, such as education, children in schools, a number of issues relating to integration, but which this bill does not deal with. You will allow me to conclude my report with two specific references. It is our belief that the immigration issue will continue for decades. It's a systemic, geopolitical and humanitarian dimension. He has been engaging in Greece in very difficult years, in the heart of the crisis. But, unfortunately, he was treated as something extraordinary, as a stranger. It's not like that. If we keep it up like the ostrich, let it go like an emergency that passes, then it's certain that the flow will pass above us, not next to us. Our political decision, therefore, is to tackle it systematically and seriously, to shield our borders as far as possible, to prepare the administration, to organise society, as a factor of resilience to society at every level. In order to do this, we need, among other things, to take it as a state, as a Greek Republic entirely, i.e. with a clear legal framework, adequate administration and long-term planning. The European Union has helped us financially and has also helped us by providing know-how, providing assistance with EASO. So are organisations such as the IMO, the International Organisation for Migration, such as the High Commissioner for Immigration. We cannot, however, continue to leave their management to third parties. Under this draft law, administrative care is clearly passed on to the Greek state, with an increase in the guarantees for the applicant, because the composition of the appeal committees is composed of three judges now. This provision, like the reintroduction of the annulling procedure in the Court of First Instance, shows the decision to incorporate all the right to asylum in a few years' time. The participation of a third judge from the present time helps to train a sufficient number of judges in this area of law. This is clearly a measure which is part of a short-term planning. The second point I want to make is that the law we are introducing today is Union law, it is European law. In other words, they are the directives of the European Union that we incorporate. What are we doing? We are faithfully transposing the European directive, without derogations and without broad interpretations. But we don't find new law to be clear. We are simply integrating European law, we are simply doing it properly - I repeat - and within the administration we are trying to be effective. The latter is an important one for the debate on rights that is taking place and it never ends this debate - and it does - but our principle is that every right granted correspondingly creates an obligation, a responsibility from the right holder. This is the central pattern, if you want, the core of this bill, namely the provision of rights and the responsibility that gives rise to this right. We do not reduce rights or guarantees. We provide everything that we can ensure and we ask the beneficiaries of rights and protection to comply legally with the rights granted to them. This is their responsibility to show them humanity, protection and to provide them with what they are entitled to under international law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Minister. We've made a consultation I'm announcing so everyone knows it. As the parliamentary representatives have also asked for the floor, they will speak two Members and then the parliamentary representatives will speak. Mr Gregoriadis, Mrs Giannakopoulou and Mr Hetas have so far been asking for the floor. At 13:30, Mr. Varoufakis has asked to speak and at 14:15 Mr. Koutsoubas has asked to speak. We're continuing with Mr. Stamenitis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u99	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law at an extremely difficult time. The fact that the government today inherited a huge problem, which brings together many features, is not questionable. This is a matter of geopolitical and national and, at the same time, social and humanitarian importance. If we in fact add to these traits in recent years - and we must say this without spins, the country had absolutely no politics on the immigration - refugee issue or, rather, apologies, it had one, the dogma policy 'opened and we waited' - then we can have the overall picture and see its size. It is regrettable that for Greece the problem has so far become passive. No restriction, no insurance policy, no organisation, zero readiness, no legislative framework, with many gaps and distortions, no resistance to the geopolitical pursuits and interests of others. That was the framework implemented by the previous SYRIZA - ANEL government. Because it would be wrong to believe that since the beginning of the problem, our country was doomed to suffer the negative consequences that exist today. But let us see the situation through six basic questions. Would we have the same results if, instead of a constantly amended and unclear legislative framework, there were a single framework, with clear and specific provisions on recognition, reception, examination and judicial protection? Would the situation be the same today, if the country were to use the most serious tool at its disposal, namely the joint declaration by the European Union and Turkey on the returns of those who are not entitled to asylum? In three years we had only a thousand eight hundred six returns. Would we be able to manage the same number of immigrants today, if there were a separation between war refugees and economic immigrants, if they didn't open our borders to all, considering that economic migrants will solve us? Would the situation have been the same today, if the available funds had been used and if the organic positions and positions of the administrative units had been covered, or if we had built structures that could have accommodated - with dignity, security and without problems in local communities - these troubled people? Only 22% on average has been absorbed. Only 40% of organic sites have been covered. Only three of the twenty-six planned hosting structures have been set up. Would the local communities, blamed by SYRIZA's colleagues, be able to ensure human living conditions, respect the hygiene rules and the order, rather than stacking miserable people in Moria and the islands, with what this entails? You have, of course, chosen, instead of discussing, imposing and, instead of explaining, blaming nationalism and racism. You have covered your inability behind a false and nonexistent humanism. Would the problem have been raised, so much, if the previous government believed that, yes, there are maritime borders and, yes, we have to guard them and protect them? The answer is obvious. Ladies and gentlemen, for those who believe that history is written by law, and that the fate of our country is specified, the act and the assumption of responsibility come as a better answer. This government proves this very quickly once again. She's not hiding behind her finger. He understands the problem in his real dimension. He does not stand passively against the problem, but acts. At national level we take all the initiatives that will enable us to manage the problem at the least cost. How? If we can explain, if we take measures, if we divide the burden, if we first take care of the citizens and, of course, if we take care of decent human living conditions for the people who arrive in the country. At international level, the current government claims what Greece is entitled to. We have explained that Greece cannot raise the huge burden of this problem alone. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an hour of responsibility and we must all stand up to the circumstances. Today's draft law is the most serious and integrated approach to the problem and we are all called upon to support it as a debt to our country and fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u100	Thank you for the time. We'll all try to be within five minutes. Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor. Please keep the five minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you were enchanting before about the good procedure that lasted six days. You have said some information about the procedure and the proposals that have been accepted, and so on. Did you hear my suggestion? Obviously not, because I'm waiting for the Plenary Assembly to testify to it. That is what the ninety colleagues who are going to speak are expecting. You can celebrate as much as you wish for the procedure that you have followed, saying that it was good, but I personally consider it unacceptable that there should be thirty, forty, fifty Members - or even one, I say - who will not be able to express their opinion in Parliament's Chamber on the subject we are discussing. I would like to present my opinion here and not on television windows. But let us come to the heart of the matter. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that dealing with the refugee - immigration issue requires, first of all, respect for human existence and dignity. Immigrants or refugees are people and they have rights that support and safeguard international law. First of all, we need to ensure human life for the people we are talking about. To address the issue requires respect for the rules of international law and the rules of the protection of human rights. Finally, it requires respect for our national sovereignty and the territorial integrity of our country. I would say that in a completely opposite political direction from these principles there are various points of view that we have heard all this time. First, Lefteris Augorakis, Secretary of the New Democracy, August 2016, in the light of the move of refugees to Crete by implementing the "ESTIA", a programme undertaken by local government there and a programme that was finally awarded to its implementation by the UN High Commissioner. Mr.Avgenakis was talking about destruction of the tourism of Crete, about altering the population of Crete, about altering the religion of the Cretans and about other things. I put it in the Minutes, to see that the lie goes in hug with the dangers and the toxic political speech of the opposition then right to the government of SYRIZA. [[At this point the Member, Mr Nikolaos Igoumenides, presents for the minutes the above mentioned articles, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's go down. In October 2019, Adonis Georgiadis on a television window said: “The issue is no longer a refugee. It's illegal immigration. There will be massive deportations to Turkey. Turkey is obliged to take them. They are dangerous, in my opinion, acrobats, which, in addition, make the refugee bilateral problem between Greece and Turkey." In fact, is there any other country in the world - and I challenge the New Democracy colleagues who will follow me at the Step - who determines the refugee or migration profile from the placement of Ministers or the Government's Ministerial Council? Who is this country? Bring her here. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Nikolaos Igoumenides, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Also, Kostas Katsafadas, Member of the New Democracy, in October 2019: ‘Where is the evil in the pushback?’ One from New Democracy should explain to our colleague that what he does not understand is clearly forbidden by Greek law, European Union law and international law. Greece - and every country of the European Union - is obliged to examine the situation of each person on its territory. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. And we come to September 2019, with Kyriakos Velopoulos saying: "If you want to be a serious state, you say that, since I have a potential nuclear bomb within the mainland, you take them to islands, to “knowledge”", in introductorys, the islands, he says, "on islands that do not exist, so that there are no social problems, no rapes, no paedophiles or nothing." And he concludes by ending it: “It is not ideological for me. It is pragmatic.’ I'm putting this in the Minutes too. [[At this point the Member, Mr Nikolaos Igoumenides, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The truth is that from the Ausgarian opposition statements to SYRIZA in 2016 until the reconciliation statements to the New Democracy of 2019 several statements were made by officials of the New Democracy. The truth is, too, that these statements do not express all the people who are currently following the New Democracy. However, Mr President, I would like to close my speech by referring to the message they are sending out. They send out the message that Greece is the country that, without respect for international law, will send you back or that Greece is the country that, if you are there, will be afflicted. This is an ideological fence, with which they hope to block the refugee current. I believe that the uterus of extreme nationalist and fascist views lies at the heart of these statements. You will, gentlemen, find the Left and the entire progressive democratic world of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr. Igoumenides, for the time. Mr Claus Gregoriadis, Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, if Greece were a human being, what kind of man would we like to be? Think of her as a man of your own, like a relative. If, then, our country was your brother or daughter, would you like to be a closed, lonely, malicious and permanently frightened man, or would you prefer that your relative be a social, open to partnerships and associations, full of good man, with a torque to the joy of life, to esteem with other human beings? If your son was spending his life all alone, without any company, dedicated only to his obligations and responsibilities with the ultimate purpose of vague excellence, would you not worry about each other a little? Watch out, I'm not saying that every night the kid was in the party and enjoyments. Not at all. I mean, once and for all, he was having a little fun, of course, hanging out with other people, because, I'm sorry, another way to have fun, I don't know. With other people, then, perhaps different from himself, but his contact with them would also open up new horizons, beyond what he learned from his home and his narrow surroundings. Would that not be the necessary remnant of his experiences, which, along with all that he would carry from his environment, would eventually make him an independent, self-brained, mature man who holds his life and his future in his hands? Would you ever leave your fears and anxiety for the dangers that sometimes unknown waters mean to dominate within you? And would you cut your child off from society in front of the risk of dangerous or, in any case, those associations that you could not control? But such behaviour, ladies and gentlemen, against every person we love and care for, would be the definition of psychopathological hyperprotectiveness, a suffocating and very painful and painful embrace, which, as we all know, always drives mathematically, to a completely immature man who is afraid to make choices, since he has learned to do everything else about him. It leads to a man who is afraid, a man who will never be able to develop his judgment and conscience, since the consciences of others always judge him, but most importantly a man who, in all likelihood, will never be able to love and be loved, since, as we all know, the definition of love is the risk of betrayal, which all of us normal people have learned from early to take. Life, ladies and gentlemen, is like swimming, either at some point happy to wash or fight constantly stressful and afraid to float. Thirdly, there is no road, so it comes for all of us the time we have to make our choice. Will we finally leave ourselves at the festival called life and, well or badly, is it a main feature and will it always be the variety or will we resist entrenched in a narrow-minded mind and by the nature of the restrictive and completely orphaned me? With ego, ladies and gentlemen, no one has ever arrived anywhere. Instead, what we admire, appreciate and respect this world is almost always a product of cooperation between people who have had to overcome many times the impediment of language, religion, race, gender, different morals and customs to bring together their team achievements. The largest scientific, social, artistic, political achievements were usually derived from such heirly fellowships or heirly skateways, from groups or skateways that their members characterized by tolerance to diversity, resistance to any prejudice and openness in front of the unknown. If they had closed the door to everything that they didn't know, they wouldn't have delivered us anything, except maybe from the transplantation of their completely useless fears. That's exactly what all the fascists of this world do to us, whatever color they have, whatever their uniforms, behind whatever ideology they're hiding. Because they are desperately afraid of living themselves, they mean not letting us live. Come on, ladies and gentlemen, let us not do this to them, let us not adopt their agenda under any circumstances, let us try. Because if we try to drag the herd of their fans into our politicaly correct screen, because every time we adopt their agenda, or some nuggets from their ideology, because it's supposedly better for their fans to be housed in us than these savages, we actually become the savages ourselves. In fact, every time we separate a hunger immigrants from a war refugee, we legalise them fascists. Every time we look at how to avoid our European obligations toward them and meet them as little as possible, trying to create for these hunters a dystopic and often inhumane environment, constantly standing before the obstacles inexorably, bureaucraticly and others, so that they can ultimately be attributed to either where they came or to an even worse area where they came, in the totally fascist Turkey, we legalise all the fascists of this world. Let us finally stop doing so, let us stop doing so, because otherwise we offer our country the long-term north to the famine of fascism. Will you tell me what to do? Shall we keep in our little debt-government and two - three more million starving slaves of this world? We'll all drown together here. We'll never pay off. In a few years, we will no longer have a national identity. We'll forget our Greeks. Why, ladies and gentlemen, did we ever find out? Our Greeks, I mean, if we ever found out. Is our vocabulary already many years, too much before there was the migration problem, there somewhere in the 1980s, was not brutally limited to about a hundred words, as in fact, of course, all right. You remember them. We're vertically opposed, we say it clearly, to understand it. Those words weren't there before, they're all born. Has our national identity not been altered for years by our consumer mania, which, in the era of globalisation, force us to follow what else, collectively the world standards up to the language of each sovereign metropolis? America's at this time. But what America do we follow? America, this crazy planet Trump, his uncovered fascist, who wants to handle the fates of the world. A xenophobic man, sexist and racist has started and made his entire presidency look like a huge wall. This wall, at its border with Mexico, which even requires the Mexicans to build at their own expense, is to know at the same time the Berlin Wall, which was rebuilt by itself and returns to mock us. What do you think we should do? Can we imitate this unbelievable guy and become little "tubbies" too? Shall we begin with Evros and then with the shocking technology provided by the glossy growth that we have been living in the last ten years, continue our underwater walls all over the Aegean Sea? Can we bring back the known doctrine of Samara? "When they do badly, will they tell their relatives not to come." To end like the late months of semi-fascist Italy, which until long ago lasted, and I don't know how long a whole ship souls have been, don't step on and contaminated by strangers and contaminated its sacred dirt? Do these, ladies and gentlemen, envision any of you as our country's future? So, be totally kneeled, codified civilians, feeling safe and imperial in our loneliness, with a whole world dying helpless around us and us triumphing that we are still not in his place? Is that a culture, ladies and gentlemen? Is there anything in this attitude that has anything to do with the real Greece, which the king of her gods had the nicknamed Xenon, whose greatest poet was born, lived and created his Greek most important work in Alexandria, Egypt, which has now been island women and islands holding these foreign but global babies and keeping them on their noses as the most valuable gift of this world, with a full sense of personal responsibility for the survival of such a different and so different new life? Yes, ladies and gentlemen, they are the same fishermen - and if they are not - who have saved themselves without any bankrupt state coordination, those who have finally saved themselves in Matty. You think the fishermen who rushed to Matty would ever let Afghan, Pakistani or Persian migrate drown in their seas because he's black, yellow or else? Do you ever imagine them to check if this is a refugee or an immigrant before a human is collected from the water? You know well they wouldn't. You know how they would even risk their lives for this wedge - God knows where - a sense of duty toward all other human beings. You know that well, because all your life and you, like me, are enchanting you for these behaviors, for those Greeks who will eternally guard Thermopylae for all of us. With your attitude and your vote in this unacceptable bill for our culture, you give our children an opportunity not to be ashamed in the future on our behalf, not to strive to eradicate the stain, the stain, that is, because their parents - we - left helpless people to die in the middle of the sea, in the mud of Idomeni - to you - I say it - in the famine of Moria or, worse, in the fascist arms of supposedly safe Turkey. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. To conclude, I would just like to remind you that a time like today, with gloomy political overturns, completely unpredictable geopolitical developments and lasting economic and other wars, no serious man could ever guarantee that tomorrow morning we will not be the same in the position of people who, with this draft law, pursue as hard as we can. Perhaps we are making life unfit for them so that they do not again dare themselves or their relatives in their homeland to attempt it for us, the afflicted Greek hardshipmen in Europe, inconceivable: to claim their right to live. A right that all of us in here for ten years have been systematically dismantling and that is why, perhaps, so hard legislatively today we are punishing them, because we envy what we see in their eyes glowing, because we still remember that our eyes once shine. Ladies and gentlemen, if your heart says so, we still have time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u104	Thank you. Mrs. Lykoule from the Change Movement has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u105	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to all the rapporteurs. One of them once and for all used the term'symptoms'. While he said it and said it again, in my mind the image of that three - year - old boy, with the short trousers, made a picture smiling on a coast of the Aegean Sea, was poured out. And it became a life picture. You smile and you...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u106	I have other images on my mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u107	So give him the title he deserves in this photo: "Third-year-old reader". With this, and with this, we realise that the issue is essentially like walking and balance on a stretched rope. It is evading our potential, ladies and gentlemen. It has nothing to do with the country alone, it has to do with Europe and the world. It is an issue that is in relation to our partners and has become more a game, the game of the'mouzouri', to whom the bad paper will remain. It is an issue that does not even depend on our own legislative potential. It decides on Turkey, opens its borders, manages the population and, of course, according to its own interests in the wider geopolitical chess board of the Near East. It is precisely in this context that we are called upon to make policy, namely to legislate, and we know that what we are building is actually in the sand, because every time other factors define new things, they bring new data, which we need to take into account. So it's not that simple. It goes beyond our own potential and, despite the fact that we have the happiness of being the country where we are, at the same time we have the misfortune to be at the edge of the continent, covering a large and vulnerable part of the Union's external borders, just where the two worlds meet, the world of the West and the world of the East. A large part of the world of the East is retreated, the consequences of which are experienced daily by our islands of the first line, the eastern Aegean, but strongly now and escalating inland. 'So what?', one asks. With cross-arms, will we stay across this scene? We're gonna do what? We have talked to the Change Movement many times about this issue and we have taken many initiatives. The criticality of the moments is very specific. Let's leave the crocodile tears for others. We are all acquainted with our journeys, and we know what each one is serving. No one is more humanist than anyone else. In any case, then, we cannot say 'no' in an attempt to codify a single text differently. We cannot say 'no' to a piece of legislation which promises - even promises - to simplify and shorten procedures. We've reached no further. Isn't that a admission of common sense? In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we are not allowed to turn this House into a arena for matters of this order, that is, national issues. They are national issues of refugee and immigration. We leave the arena to others, who have also given examinations in the last few days to this role and have won the impressions, proving what their real political DNA is and how they perceive democracy. So we give you this picture. We, with the institutional, political, serious burden, which we have, will object critically, but not negatively. The consultation was not complete, Minister. The bill, however, needs to work and must go ahead. Time's not on our side. We are, unfortunately, right now at five and five. We've got a can to run. Of course, the "law and order" here is not working. A lot of people say it on the channels, government officials. Don't say it. "Law and order", don't say it, because immigration, refugee, are not issues offered for such designations. This is where a national consensus is needed to manage the matter. So you're wrong, no matter how fond of the voters' ears. I come to 'these'. The tightening of the framework does not in any case imply efficiency. A desperate man who swims because he feels dying, neither the eighteen months nor the twenty - four nor thirty - six will cause him not to swim. It's over and over! Here we should ensure our roles, each of us, and try to defend acquired humanitarian rights. Furthermore, Minister, modern policies are developed with corporate social consciousness, with serious, honest and responsible consultation with local communities. You have started an effort and I follow it with great interest in the regions and local municipalities. I've been in government for twenty-five years. I have only one thing to say, ladies and gentlemen. No one ever asked them. And the previous government did the same thing, which today has crocodile tears about humanity, etc. You didn't ask us. You didn't ask Larissa either. Six hundred you told us you'd bring us a thousand five hundred. You didn't ask us either about Kyplochori or Koutsochore, for nowhere you asked us. Take it from the beginning, if you want to regain it, if we want to regain it, how local societies should together have a serious operational planning framework. Anyone who is able to do this - Mr President, I am finishing - will actually write a history of political openness, political insight, social peace and humanity.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u108	Thank you very much, Mrs Liikali. We must all observe the time, so that there can be time for the rest of us. Now, Mrs. Canelley has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u109	Now, between us, we're badly climbing up here. We would have saved half a minute from going up - and all of us would have decided to speak underneath, and would have secured it five - six more Members. Anyway, let me also give these twelve seconds to reason. I assume that all of you who went through government are the best people and the Ministry is not the Ministry of Citizen Protection, but it's the Department of Human Protection. I assume you had the best intentions. The situation at the moment is a hell and it will continue to be hell for one too, but very, very serious reason: charity, humanity, solidarity is a profession in the European Union. Being a member of a non-governmental organization is a profession of the future. He's making careers. It is a profession and it is a 'bulk grant'. You want the Syrians, you want it and you continue it, and the neo-democratics, because you are pro-European. This is what the European Union wants, since the end of the 1990s, to replace public functions and public responsibilities and public funds, in the context of the liberalisation of the market and the exploitation of human beings and leave them to non-governmental organisations. Nevertheless, all these days of consultation, non-governmental organisations have also acquired a know-how, they have also taken an approach to the issue. We have come to cultivate the climate 'without what would happen'. I'll tell you what would happen. It would have had to operate differently as a State. And now you're coming to put police and military officers along with NGOs, make the case. First, let's see what you don't do. I will only talk to you about a subject that burns the universe and without such emotions: unaccompanied minors. Any of you can be found tomorrow morning with their child in a similar situation, to understand it. Greece is currently registered, about the end of September, unaccompanied young people of five and a half thousand. The reality is, they're double, double. Of these 35% are reunited children with families. The majority of reunifications are for Germany. So listen, Germany, which has taken the lead in the agreement which it has made as the European Union and in the lead power with Turkey, what it says: within three months you have to make the application and it has two months to reply to you. There are countries, not Germany, that never answer. If he doesn't answer, he's taking the request, he can never reunited the child. What are they asking for? He's got a kid, an uncle in Germany. They're asking for his rent, his employer, his DNA, his health, the proof of his relationship. The point here needs to be made forty pages and the cape what is it? I will tell you and you will be excited and tell me what the policemen will do and what the military will do: full confirmation in Greek, English and German of the country of origin certificates. I want to see a kid from Kobani or a Kandahar suburb that's arrived here and is unaccompanied, so you can get papers. Because I know an immigrant here, her husband is a Greek, her child is a Greekman, and she wasn't about a two-day date mistake, from March to April, when she was given the papers from Ethiopia. And now tell me what you're going to do with the unaccompanied, which is a thousand hundred elsewhere and a thousand percent in Moria. Well, we had suggestions, we talked about them before. It's not Euro-Union. We're prisoners. We're the last century. Because these aren't handled. I hear some of you guys get emotional and talk about the wall in Mexico, talk about the wall in Berlin. About that wall in Israel? None of you speak! For the Palestinians, none of you! There's no, it's not next door, it's not in the same neighborhood. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Here we are philanthropists and we have many NGOs, many NGOs, very well paid, and we are sitting here talking about how many people we will hire, with what wages we have to deal with, without ever knowing what funds and how these NGOs manage. This is the European Union, absolutely hypocritical. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be right over. We have proposed that you should first of all like a body of government officials. The country is full of young people who, if properly trained, can do so. You can oblige and ask European countries for a uniform way of collecting documents and demonstrating relationships, so that children can be reunited. In order for no country to say 'I three months', 'I two months', 'I answer', 'I do not answer', 'I want sixty documents', 'I do 100'. These things you had to be political, that's where you had to take them. How do you do it? Can you take it? Money will be lost and money is a lot, too much money. Around humanity, money is too much. All research by international organisations shows that the money going out of state structures reaches 20% to the recipient and 80% to the intermediate recipients with big food. If that's not a charity, then... If you tell me that something is being dealt with by them in the bill, I would like to say to you "bravo". It is to vote against the whole concept of'refugee', 'immigrant', who has no head bed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u110	Mrs. Canelley's right. I didn't say it, but, whoever wants to talk from his place, there's no matter what. Mr. Varoufakis will speak at 13:30?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u111	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u112	Good, thanks. It is known to the House that from the top Western theories they attend the meeting, since they participated in the educational program "The King and the Revolution", which organizes the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-three students and students and two teachers from the 1st High School of Painia. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are now continuing with Mrs Giannakopoulou, Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u113	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the immigration - refugee problem occurs in a major, centrally national, political and humanitarian problem. Today, in the islands of the northern Aegean, the population of these people has reached thirty-five thousand, creating a real chaos and a degraded situation in local communities. In the Host Centers on the islands there are thirty - one thousand people living these days, while the capacity and strength for hospitality are only for six thousand and two hundred people. And, as if that were not enough, any attempt to transfer refugees and immigrants to the mainland meets local authorities and citizens' reactions. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot forget how this problem was created and how ineffective and ideologically managed by the SYRIZA Government. The supposed humanists and sensitives of SYRIZA are the ones who created the Moria college - and not only - which is a disgrace to the Greek and European culture. I wonder, Mr. Colleague, Mr. SYRIZA's rapporteur, how you can plead proud. Can you state proud of Moria? Because this clearly shows that you have not understood what has happened in our country for the last four and a half years. But, ladies and gentlemen, on the other hand, it is the New Democracy's supposedly effective ones who have literally been caught in sleep. They have been delayed to react, while the flows have started to grow at a rapid rate. And, obviously, Minister, obviously, Mr Chrysochide, it was not all good, it was all right in Moria the summer you visited her. Your statement is obviously completely unfavourable and I would honestly expect to hear what led you to this statement. The first, i.e. the previous SYRIZA government, will pass on to history as the creators of an area of gratuitisation of human status, which reminds us of the camps of concentration of other times. We cannot ignore, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the European Union has allocated two billion to deal with the humanitarian dimension of the problem and no one knows clearly where they went - to date we do not know where they went - this money, who and how they have been managed, where and when they have been censored for their management and, most importantly, who have had a party on human misery. Were there any NGOs who acted uncontrollably? Are any of the state actors of the previous government who took other paths to the money intended for refugees? Questions are relentless. The previous government has serious responsibilities for the desperate situation that has arisen. He has failed to take advantage of the fall in flows in recent years, so that he can give solutions. He failed to dismantle the islands and achieve thousands of returns. Within four years there were only a thousand eight hundred returns. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] On the other hand, the current government has unduly delayed seeing the problem. The numbers are ruthless, Minister. In August the arrivals reached eight thousand. In September, they exceeded 11 thousand and in October, nine and a half thousand. Thus, in many cases, control seems to be lost and conditions of lawlessness and social concern are created. Obviously - and we have said so at the very first moment - it was absolutely wrong to transfer the powers of the Ministry of Migration Policy to the Ministry of Civil Protection. You said that, too, Minister. The issue is a multifaceted one, it's a complex one. It's not just about policing. It's about something wider. But is it not entirely contradictory that all this administration is actually going to policing? The problem is not solved by the government pretending to be strict, in order to think, to feel the legitimately concerned and feared citizens, that there is control over the situation, nor is it solved by the atrocity of the 'campaigns' created by the so-called left of SYRIZA. How will the problem be solved in Moria with the fourteen thousand and fourteen thousand people, Samos with six thousand, Chios with four thousand seventeen hundred, Kos with three thousand seventeen hundred or Lero with two thousand? We are talking about a huge problem, about a huge question, about how to deal with it. And, indeed, this problem is becoming ever greater, since, firstly, arrivals from Turkey will not stop, as it seems, secondly, the political risks to the explosive problem on the islands and reactions to the rest of the country are great and, thirdly, Europeans do not want to get to their yards. So we are faced with an extremely critical situation, which requires, on the one hand, real national consensus and strategy and, on the other, constant dialogue with self-government and social actors, so that there are no reactions or even mitigating ones. Unfortunately, we have not seen either of them so far, and this literally scares us. This bill is coming - even late - to deal with a situation that we do not have the luxury of ignoring and would be totally criminal, especially as regards the issue of unaccompanied minors, which is a huge issue, which we must see with great sensitivity. This draft law attempts to unify the provisions in a piece of legislation, incorporating and incorporating into national law a series of European legislation which our country is obliged to implement. In particular, we are talking about Directive 95/2011/EU, Directive 32/2013/EU and Directive 33/2013/EU, about the requirements for the reception of applicants for international protection. For many people who are not experts, all these terms obviously seem completely unknown. However, they are conditions which constitute conquests, ladies and gentlemen, of modern culture and concern the protection of human life and fundamental rights in emergencies, in situations where you are doing so you would never want to live, in situations where we here know very well how Greece has passed, since we know that we have been nation and migrants and refugees in many phases of our history. However, as much as we are humanists, as much as we honor the traditions of Greek hospitality and the true values of Greek culture, as much as we have to show top and truly touching examples of solidarity among the hurtful people, whether by individuals or collectives, our reality is unbearable. It is not possible - and we must say this openly - for Greece alone to raise a problem which is not purely Greek, purely national, but is European and international. The citizens of our country are not concerned because they are racist or xenophobic or far-right. The vast majority is not. But they are concerned, because they do not see a solid plan, they do not see a solution. We're out of control. Efficacy requires Greek citizens, Minister. And we cannot close our eyes to the widespread social discontent, mismanagement and suffering of the people who enter Greece. Of course, we respect the international law and the country's obligations, but, on the other hand, we cannot deal alone with Mr Erdogan, who is blackmailing and threatening raw. The Tsipras Merkel agreement, which Mr Mitsotakis continues to apply, is not a solution. Our islands can't take any more. We see it everywhere. That is why we have repeatedly called for the joint declaration of the European Union - Turkey to be changed, so that the return of immigrants also applies to those transported inland. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, has two dominant dimensions. One dimension is humanitarian, the provision of international protection for the people who deserve it, the avoidance of suffering, respect for their fundamental rights. The second dimension is management. It is the effective protection of our borders, it is how we can convince and understand the European Union that it is also its own obligation to guard the European borders, by strengthening the border guard. It is to be able to push for a change in the Rules of Procedure of Dublin. We have heard Mr Zehofer's statements and we must look at them very carefully. It is the immediate relocation of refugees to the rest of Europe, the overall European approach to the problem of refugee flows, with preventive actions aimed at the causes and not at the symptoms of immigration. Ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement is voting in favour of the bill in principle, because it is about incorporating European Union directives and codification into a single text of different legislations, which make up the protective framework of asylum seekers and refugees. On the other hand, however, we cannot in any way express our concern at individual articles in the bill, because they are also a violation of fundamental rights and guarantees of international law. Madam President, you will allow me to take the time of my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u114	You're welcome, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u115	Apart from stricting the substance of the draft bill, there is also a tightening up of the increase in reservations. It seems that all the philosophy of this piece of legislation governs it, which it considers that with detention we will be able to mitigate the problem. From a purely legal point of view, there are rules in European law which will impact the legislation when the reservation reaches thirty-six months, a clear administrative reservation. So it will be over three years, when the detention of a criminal court in Greece cannot exceed eighteen months. You understand the contradiction that exists. The application to administrative detention, therefore, of Article 46 as a means of controlling the population of foreigners, is a method which has already been tested in the past and poses a risk of leading to a massive production of administrative detainees and ultimately the long stay of these people in the country rather than their immediate return. The construction and maintenance of detention centres, ladies and gentlemen, has multiple costs. It has multiple costs for the Greek taxpayer, but it also has multiple costs for the country's institutional status when our country is convicted of inhumane and degrading detention conditions. Also, this bill - Mr Kamine said quite clearly - introduces complex administrative procedures and some dubious constitutional procedures, which are expected to bring about even greater administrative malfunctions in an already very burdensome system. We are very afraid that this will not be implemented, especially if it is not accompanied by an operational plan with specific elements, with specific timetables and, above all, alternative scenarios. I conclude with this: ladies and gentlemen, I think that no one in this Chamber wants us to return to times when the police departments were full of people who were in command, but who had exhausted the administrative and legal means, in unacceptable circumstances. We've been convicted as a country in the past. We do not want to see that happen in the future. Whatever our differences here are about what political solution we find more or less effective, we must understand that the introduction of a legislative framework that is comprehensive in its scope, clear in its wording, democratic in its content, sustainable in terms of the need for a stable framework of international protection, are parameters for which we can all agree. We are absolutely opposed to a bill that would have the impression, which would have the strictest effect, which would have the cost of these human souls and would have the cost of the Greek taxpayer. In the eyes of innocent souls trapped in foreign countries away from their homeland, who can't afford basic protection, we see Sarah Handemi. The acquittal decision taken by Marios Igos, may remind us that Greece which protects those who are being persecuted is the Greece that we expect is Greece for which all of us in the Change Movement will be struggling at all costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u116	Thank you too, my colleague. The speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Koutsoubas, will now be given the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that is being passed today will lead to even greater caging of refugees and immigrants in the country, in spite of all the big words of the government. At the same time, the bill attempts to deal with the refugee issue with greater repression and restriction of rights. Of course, we did not expect anything very different, since it again incorporates the three basic European Union directives on refugees and asylum, which do nothing but condensate the continuing categorisation of European Union policy and legislation on the issue of the basic rights of refugees and migrants. And all this while the rivers of the uprooted ones, their own competitions and contradictions, from the interventions of the United States of America, NATO, the European Union, are growing. We remind you that over seventy million of the parrots are torn apart. This is the soonest number after the millions of refugees in the Second World War. Such an important and great piece of legislation, with consequences for the lives and rights of thousands of people - and permanent residents of our country and refugees - comes for a vote with rapid procedures, a practice that SYRIZA had been followed by a coronary. That is right, all the organizations involved in the bill criticise the government for the procedures followed. Civic Opposition tries to use the provisions of the bill to be entitled to its policy. However, the SYRIZA Government voted for the two of the three European Union directives. Most measures have already been passed and implemented by SYRIZA, with the top of the agreement between the European Union and Turkey, which led to double caging, to the life of refugees and permanent residents being hell. The New Democracy, which criticised the Euro-Turkish agreement when it was in opposition, now says that it will respect it faithfully and blame SYRIZA for not doing so. In fact, the Government states that a number of issues of the agreement will be renegotiated. However, the agreement was the result of a complex European Union bazaar with the ruling class of Turkey, but also between the Turkish and Greek ruling class, an agreement involving the refugee in geopolitical controversy and exchanges. Any renegotiation of such a bargain will probably be even more complicated and dangerous today. You are striving for who best implements the European Union's reactionary and dead-end policy and legislation. All parties are applying the Dublin Regulation, more generally the European Union's asylum framework, which considers the countries in the first line, such as Greece, to be automatically responsible for asylum seekers, banning so-called'secondary movements', that is to say, refugees and immigrants travel to their countries of actual destination. And the only thing - it is supposed - is that the Dublin Regulation, namely family reunification, which should be the first measure you would take, does not actually claim it, since you are simply discussing it in general within the institutions of the European Union, both you and SYRIZA. The New Democracy, SYRIZA and other parties also agree that Greece should be turned into an endless forum for the imperialists' wars, as was done with the agreement signed by the United States Government on bases, an agreement which the SYRIZA Government had again prepared. You are working on the geostrategic upgrading of the interests of transnational monopolistic groups, indifferent both to the interests and security of the Greek people and to the new waves of uprooted refugees that will be created. We've said it before. Unfortunately, the Greek governments are not innocent of blood, nor of the caravans of desperate people arriving in Greece. The government restores rhetoric for popular consumption and care, especially ears, that Greece will not become a clear vine, that it will seal the borders and others. But you have made it a clear vineyard, a new democracy and a SYRIZA, for NATO and for the US and for their bases, for various capitalist investors, for your European partners, that is, for all those who are primarily responsible for creating the problem of the uprooted ones. Against these dangerous choices, the Greek people must strive for their struggle. This is at stake, not by the afflicted and rooted women's children from their homes. The bill is being passed precisely at a time when developments in the Middle East, Syria, after the Turkish invasion - with the blessings of the United States of America - are creating the conditions for even more massive waves of refugees to Greece and the European Union. The government's response to this possibility, as well as to the increase in arrivals during the summer months, is'more repression at the border and within the country'. SYRIZA brought FRONTEX and NATO to the Aegean, which complicated and exacerbated the problem eventually, as proved. Now the New Democracy is escalating repression and by military means, a development that is a little far from starting marine engagements and reprocesses, in the name of deterrence. From this point of view, it must be fully investigated by the shipwreck that took off Kos following the crash of a port vessel carrying refugees, with a small child dead and a man missing. The government's second response was an entire campaign of government officials, but also of the media, to convince that it is not about refugees, but only about illegal people, about a new invasion of illegal immigrants, as a top minister said, who are not entitled to humanitarian protection, as another minister said. It's the same that they've been removing several extreme right-right fascist cultures for years. However, the Greek people also know from their own experience now, since they have lived on their own side, that behind economic migrants there is the wild exploitation of resources and labour in their countries, which are proportionally shared by some Greek groups. I wonder, for the thousands of Greeks who have become economic immigrants to other countries in recent years, really, tell us what the causes are, who is responsible for? Is it not the system you serve and the policies of all governments to date? This is the direction in which the draft law is being discussed today, by facilitating the development of criteria, procedures and mechanisms so that most asylum seekers are deemed not to be entitled to it, rejected in summary procedures, and then imprisoned in order to relaunch their country or, where this is not possible, in another - supposedly - safe third country. In this way, the government says, there will also be a message of rigour that will prevent new arrivals. We warn that, according to international experience, such measures only increase the deaths at the border, only increase the traffickers' burial, familiarize the people with the violation of basic rights and barbarism, which the Greek people themselves will suffer tomorrow. We warn that at the end of the day the country will be filled with prisons, people without papers and rights, since you will not be able to deport them. Here Germany has only one third of the deportation decisions implemented. At the same time, racist, xenophobic instincts will have increased, as is seen already by the incitement of incidents in specific areas that the government was planning to set up refugees. I will speak more specifically about all this. In application of the position that most are economic immigrants and not refugees, you are categorizing applications for international protection based on nationality, to determine whether they have the so-called refugee profile, which both the European Union and the Greek governments are creating at once and on the basis of the wider geopolitical interests and bazaars with third countries. By establishing a list of safe countries of origin or even safe, supposedly, of regions of origin, even within the same non-safe country - and this is another invention of the European Union, which, for example, considers that living a few kilometres outside Kabul makes it safe - and also safe third countries - another concept - the creation of the European Union, which SYRIZA has already voted on - is aimed at rejecting, in a massive and concise manner, asylum applications, deporting applicants to these countries without substantial individual examination, as required by the Geneva Treaty. On the basis of the EU-Turkey agreement, the safest third country is Turkey. And that's what happens and they're called when the Turkish government uses Syrian refugees as a box sack in the area that it created through its intervention in Syria. And the Prime Minister himself, Mr Mitsotakis, has said about the Turkish government that they were the ones who raised the refugee, using them as pawns to pursue their own geopolitical goals. So where does Turkey appear to be a safe country for refugees? With a number of suffocating deadlines and strict procedures, especially in so-called fast-track and fast-track border procedures, you find it difficult or you exclude people from access to international protection, you make life difficult for them. In addition, you will create additional administrative burdens on the competent agencies that are trying to cope with a few employees - as compared to the major needs - many of whom are contracted and often remain unpaid. Particularly serious is the prediction that they can carry out serious procedural acts, which will judge the fate of the applicants, such as recording asylum claims, receiving interviews from applicants, etc., the Police, the Army, as long as they do not wear uniforms and bear no discretion. You need to withdraw this immediately. Asylum procedures have left police jurisdiction by law of 2011. Now you're coming back to bring it back, adding to the Army. There is already a number of strict penalties for those who object to their transfer to a specific structure, for those who do not cooperate with the authorities or for the slightest violation of the rules on the operation of structures, even if they are entitled to it in accordance with your own criteria. There is already a general and protracted use of the measure of the detention of asylum seekers, without having committed any crime, including families, of unaccompanied children, vulnerable people, who have already been voted on by the SYRIZA on the basis of a European Union directive. You are now imposing even more generalised use of this burden of measure, which can reach up to thirty-six months. Your intention is to remove the UN completely from the asylum procedures, as shown in the bill you submitted to the committee responsible. You haven't dared it in the last minute. But you have driven the UN out of the appeal committees, which now from secondary administrative committees make them completely judiciary, since all three members will be judges, an arrangement under which it disagrees with a Union of Administrative Judges. SYRIZA started it, and now you're finishing it. Moreover, the right to appeal has been retained, but you are doing so entirely in advance, since the list of cases for which the application will not have suspensory effect, especially on expulsion, which was already provided for under SYRIZA legislation. You squeeze the concept of vulnerable, removing the so-called post-traumatic stress from the reasons why one can be characterized as vulnerable, keeping it only for those who lost parents, brothers in the shipwreck. However, the reduction in the number of so-called "prosperity" you are seeking will result in caging in the islands of most people, since vulnerability has facilitated their transfer to mainland Greece and, ultimately, from there to their destination. You keep the so-called 'geographical limitation', i.e. caging in a specific area, which is also provided for in the directive of the European Union, which you are incorporating again. We denounced him when SYRIZA voted for him, legalising the terrible situation on the islands. Now you're expanding it all over Greece. You repeat the regulation of the SYRIZA, that after six months of the authorisation of the asylum request they should leave the hosting structures, because European funds that finance the structures only concern asylum seekers. And you, like SYRIZA, will fly to the streets thousands of people, families with children, without having taken any steps to at least teach the Greek language to adults, to integrate them into work, housing, expose them to extensive risks of social marginalisation. As far as education is concerned, instead of solving the problem of the transfer of children to schools, the recruitment of the staff needed for the afternoon classes and the reception classes of early schools, the supply of appropriate books and educational aids, the creation of at least decent living conditions for children and the family, instead of all of them, you provide for the imposition of sanctions on parents, if children are not involved in education. Make sure you don't understand the many difficulties of a refugee family living in a detention centre, in a tent and so on. In the health sector, the situation in the islands' Kyts, hospitals, hospitals and health centres near the refugee camps is tragic, with enormous shortages in health personnel, a shortage of medicines and materials, and staff exhausted, which are also contractors and often remain unpaid for long periods of time. The question is not whether they will have AMKA or have the Health Care Card Allanda - a measure of SYRIZA that now reintroduces the bill. The question is to provide all the information needed to prevent, treat, restore for the period of their stay, regardless of whether they have or will not have an applicant for international protection. The government is responsible for ensuring full and free medical treatment, vaccinations, without conditions and conditions. It concerns the health and life of all and the refugees, and in particular public health. This must also apply to the children of economic migrants who have no residence permits and who have rushed to exclude them from AMCA, without replacing them with something else that will fully meet their health needs. The report by the Committee on Human Rights shall be as follows: ‘The above points, in particular, where they are seen in combination, may lead to de facto refusal to exercise the rights of applicants for international protection in practice, the exclusion of persons from asylum procedures, the deprivation of the right to effective and effective recourse, even the breach of the principle of non-refoulement, in the event that the beneficiary of international protection is finally returned’. The JRC condemns unacceptable events to the detriment of refugees who are guided by craft and insidiously from old and new reactionary parties and organisations. Existing issues in the distribution and management of housing must be addressed on the basis of ensuring human, decent living conditions, access to health and education services, with the responsibility of state services, without the involvement of NGOs. The planning should take into account the distribution needs and problems of residents. We call on the unions, institutions to multiply their solidarity with the conditions of life in Greece, but also to make the dream of the vast majority securely reach their countries of real destination. We call on them to show the same solidarity that we are showing when they cut off our current and water, when they go to the auction and seize houses or other assets, when unemployment, taxes and robbery breaks down, in order to close all unacceptable hot spots on the islands and on Evros, to transfer refugees and immigrants to hospitality centres operating under government responsibility in Greece, where they will examine their requests and go to the countries of real destination, so that they can progress without delay and all family reunifications, so that there is no minor homeless, unprotected, or in prison centres, to provide adequate services, camps and structures for refugees with permanent employment relations and payment of all their entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u118	We too, Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-seven students and students and five teachers attending the 55th Municipal School of Patras. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] And I now call on the President of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group, Mr Giannis Varoufakis, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, do we incorporate - what are we incorporating? - a European directive on the protection of human beings, on international protection. Are we serious? At the moment that the European Union is talking about in its wisdom, it pays hundreds of millions of slaves, the worst human soul movements in Africa, in the depths of southern Libya, those we were supposed to be chasing before as human souls traffickers. Now the European Union with the bogeyman in Brussels pays billions, why? To build, on behalf of the European Union, concentration camps within the Sahara, in the desert, in the south of Libya, so that immigrants will not then come here. These ladies and gentlemen of Brussels will now send us to the Greek Parliament a directive on how to protect people? With what moral cast? It doesn't mean that we're morally superior to the Brussels people. We built Moria, the companions of SYRIZA put your signature to build a concentration camp on our island, in Lesvos. We signed Mrs Merkel's fait accompli with each of the leaders of the European countries, because they have not dared to go through this in the Treaty on European Union. They went through it under bilateral agreements, knowing very well that it would not stand up to the criticism of a treaty and a procedure for the adoption of treaties. But let us look at this a little more generally and not specifically. The separation between refugees and immigrants, which is indeed part of international law, has a history which is very different from the present one. We're going back to 1922, to the Asia Minor Destruction. Caravans of Greeks in Asia Minor are gone. Many of them ended up in Ellis Island in New York. Others had left the Peloponnese, from Egypt. We are talking about Greek compatriots who ended up in Ellis Island. There they were recorded and separated, whether he was a persecutor or simply an immigrant. They didn't fly to the sea, they didn't put those who were immigrants on board and were not officially considered refugees to return them back. Their selection has been made and their integration into American society has been followed. Today the United States would not have been so powerful if this had not happened. Since 1924, a xenophobic process has been under way, serving specific economic interests within the United States of America. In 1929, with the Great Depression, the great error begins, which had a strong note of resentment. It is recorded that the first attempts within the United States to stop the free flow of immigrants through Ellis Island in the United States had targeted immigrants from Greece and Italy. Anthellenism, xenophobia, also had a Greek mark. With the Great Depression, what is the great error? That foreigners take away our jobs. Have you ever heard of that before? Foreigners never got German jobs. No country in the world in the history of capitalism did that. The foreigners have created more jobs than those they have taken. Yes, the work offer increased when we had migratory flows, whether this was in the United States, Australia or here in Greece in 1991, after the collapse of the fertilizer, or elsewhere. At the same time, however, the demand for labour is also increasing due to the multiplier responses.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u120	The iron curtain you remembered!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u121	You're right. It's an expression, Mrs. Papariga.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u122	Go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u123	I'm withdrawing the expression. After the collapse of the socialist countries. Do we agree? However, I should actually like to go ahead because, in fact, I think we are in agreement, at least in this regard. The Great Depression begins with an ideological process aimed at breaking up, dividing, partitioning, partitioning, non-preferential people, workers in all countries, turning against the other worker to turn the native against the foreigner. We come in the late 1940s and in the early 1950s, when the United States after the major mistake that followed the Great Depression, down the rolls, close the free access of immigrants to the United States. Then Germany, Australia and Canada open up for Greeks and Italians and for Yugoslav immigrants. The fact that our compatriots in Australia, Sydney, Melbourne, Toronto, Canada were lawful, had legal papers was the result of an administrative decision by the authorities in these countries that they would not be described as "destructive immigrants", "corruptors". That's an interesting expression! As if there are legal intruders! Anyway. Be assured, ladies and gentlemen, that if that decision had not been taken and the Greeks had been excluded from Canada, from Australia, from Germany, would have gone as 'inaccurate' immigrants. Incidentally, it is quite accidental - it may be, but will you allow me a rhetorical question - the fact that this bill comes, this incorporation of the obsolete directive by a European Union that has no moral power to tell us how to protect immigrants and refugees, at the same time as it is being discussed under the heading 'Democracy of Greeks', a bill, an intervention which effectively deprives the legitimate electoral right to vote for 90% of those people who then went to Australia, Canada? Are you serious when you say you're going to ask them to bring you papers from the consulates proving that there are two years left in Greece to exercise the right they already have? I'm closing the parentheses here. I think it is not entirely accidental for this coincidence in both cases of today's bill, but also the way in which our own people are treated, our immigrants as citizens of the country - we are talking about citizens of the country, people who have Greek citizenship and Greek passports - who must be treated differently from the natives, from those who live here. Ladies and gentlemen, since the budgetary crisis broke out, since the collapse of the whole shielded Greek novel in the hard core of the European Union, the Eurozone, one memorandum after the other sends our children abroad, it creates a new generation of immigrants. Many of them - let us take care of this - are regarded as 'lathonists' in the countries in which they have gone. So let us be very careful when we talk about 'death immigrants'. It is not a country like ours, which produces after the wave of refugees, immigrants, which are the children who are persecuting home, to embrace this anti-human language and those concepts, which have no legal status but certainly have no political and moral status. Ladies and gentlemen, since the 2010 crisis and especially after the early arrivals of immigrants from the East, the novel begins that there is not only the economic crisis, there is the refugee crisis. It's another crisis, too. There's no other crisis. There's no refugee crisis. There is an economic crisis, a collapse of the basic foundations of the euro area, which by nails and teeth - we are seeing today the spectacle of internal conflicts at the Governing Council of the European Central Bank - Mario Draghi and others have tried to keep alive. The European Union is not facing a refugee, immigration crisis. Greece is facing it because there is no European Union. The European Union does not accept to tackle this problem as it stands, as a European problem. But it sends us instructions, which of course we - 'yes' to everything we say - we feel the need to incorporate them in the way they come. Ladies and gentlemen, the refugee, the advent of these 'Stholian', the people who have put themselves in an incredible hardship, an incredible adventure to escape and come here, is used by the 'good society' of our country, by the oligarchy of our country, to say it more simply as a diversion, in an attempt to create a decent racism through which the real threat facing the country is distorted. The country faces a threat of resentment not because foreigners come, but why our children leave through the Memorandum. Racism has always functioned as an insurance policy in times of crisis. Do you remember how Golden Dawn started? He targeted the Germans in general, as if all the Germans were enemies of the Greeks, even the proletarians, even the victims of the austerity imposed by the German political leadership. After a while, the target went from the Germans to the Pakistani. Very quickly we have victims, like Paul Bridge. Ladies and gentlemen, Mera25's 'category' to this bill and the philosophy of the European Union that governs it is trying to prevent new immigrants from coming through their persecution, through increasingly punishing provisions and methods on them, is that you are judged both as immoral and as ineffective. The inefficiency of your immorality is what future generations will remember in terms of legislation like this. You will not reduce the flow of migrants in the country as well as tighten the procedures, as much rights and remove them as you can from their lives. Because these flows have a reasoning behind them and a reasonable ironic and impeccable logic, which your 'filles' and your own misanthropism as effectively as you try to apply it, Mr Chrysochoidis - and I am sure you will try to do so - is simply not going to pay off. All that leaves such a bill, such a culture behind it, is discord, is poisoning the souls of the Greeks. We have created and created, too, SYRIZA colleagues, the internal borders, accepting the joint declaration by Merkel and the other Heads of State and saying 'yes' to everything, and that is why, from all countries, not just from us. It turned out to be a different regime for our islands. There is a meaningless border that at least some people who have the right to be in Lesvos and Samos do not have the right to be in Halkidiki and the Peloponnese. We introduced into this country - and you are making it even more intense with your bill - internal borders, internal division, when an entire process begins with what the rights the Greek citizen has in relation to the refugee, even the one who has papers to be a refugee. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the Secretary of Mera25 is ringing.]] Do you realize what it is that we are transferring to the young children here today, to our country, but also to Greece, when we tell them that a child who comes in wet, with his father or mother drowned, arrives in Lesvos, will pass through this process that you describe and, if it is from Pakistan or Nigeria, will return to the safe country of Turkey, while an Ukrainian semi-massage, who has two hundred and fifty grand, and comes and takes three apartments here in Koukaki, devastates Koukaki through Airbnb and takes a Schengen visa to live in Berlin? Do you realize what is the message that this policy is going through to the next generation? It's a poisonous message. Minister, what are you going to do to our own people you're involved in in your misanthropic bill? Take the doctors. With what right, Mr. Chrysochoid, do you have a Greek doctor, a Greek doctor, to decide whether he has been tortured, according to the bill, a human retaliatory that is in front of him and trembling when he examines it? Should our doctor judge whether he's been tortured or not? Do you think that, first, that can lead our medical staff to a proper decision and, second, leaves our doctors' soul unstoppable? What do you think the policeman who you have authorized to behave in a horrendous way against immigrants will feel just to get the prevention through persecution and intolerance? How is this man, the cop, going to his house and petting his daughter and son and how will he feel at that time? Ladies and gentlemen, this is all part of a broader historical context, and this is something that we all have to realise as Europeans, not only as Greeks and not just as members of the Greek Parliament. Let's look for a second macroscopic in the last thousand years. What are we gonna see? A continent, Europe, which sends boats whole, hundreds of millions of people on all continents of the world. That is what we are doing as Europeans a thousand years. We emigrate to America, Australia, Africa, Asia. We are mostly destroying these continents, which we do something good, but we usually dismantle the local societies where we as Europeans have gone. What has happened in recent years? It's very simple. We're old. The European continent is ageing demographically. Don't go into the why and how. It's a reality. And when a continent grows old, it is very natural that there should be a shift - reversal of migratory flows. They will come from the rest of the earth in Europe, especially if we bomb them already or take part in their bombing or we participate in climate change that raises the temperature to fifty degrees Celsius. Apparently they're coming. And they're younger and we don't let them live in their homes. That's the reality. Do you think that, with "falcons" and with a stricter structure of oppressed bills, such as what you dare bring us here today, this problem will be solved? These are major issues relating to pan-European planning. And you're gonna let me close with a little textbook written by a girl. Her name is Warsan Shire and comes from a country that according to your bill, I don't think gives her the right to apply for asylum. It says: "No one leaves his house unless his house is the mouth of the wolf. You run away and don't stop when you reach your country's borders, only when the whole village runs with you, and the neighbors run even faster than you, with their breaths being bloody on their necks. You run when you see the boy who once kissed you robbed you behind the old lamarina factory, holding a rifle bigger than his boot. You leave your house when your house doesn't let you stay." The people you are going to make, the civil servants, implement the bill toward such a citizen of the world - who did not want to be a citizen of the world, but has been forced to become a citizen of the world - are these people, be they doctors, civil servants or police officers, how do you think they will be able to manage this huge contradiction? I'm closing up with Mera25's proposal. Firstly, integration into the local communities of all those who are already in the Greek area. The opposite of the landslide, the opposite of the Morians and the Amygdales. In all cities and towns this means solidarity between Greeks and Greeks, not only the Mytilians and the Samiots, but all of us share the people we already have here. Secondly, a real immigration policy, in which we will have targets for how many thousands of us will take each year, and from where, citizens can apply, whether they want to emigrate or those who run from their homes, because their homes cannot keep them, apply for asylum in our consulates. And of course - speaking of our people, doctors, police officers and civil servants - it is necessary to involve migrants and refugees living in that country and many of them are in the hands of and professionally. To involve and accredit immigrants and refugees who are already here and know much better what is happening in their countries in the way we manage those who are coming. Ladies and gentlemen, I close by saying or reminding you that in our debate with the Prime Minister, when he answered my question about immigration, Mr Mitsotakis closed the debate by saying that "in Mr Varoufakis' fantasy there is a Greece that opens the doors to everyone", but in reality, which he manages as Prime Minister, things will be different. Unfortunately, it seems that it will be different: a xenophobic Greece is built by the Government of New Democracy, a xenophobic Greece, which ultimately bases its policy on an economic programme that has come from Brussels and which has left the country, sends our own children abroad, while the only directives that are embodied are those that poison the soul of our young, our children, our doctors, our police officers. We, as Mer25, aim at a Greek welcoming fundamentally to the Greeks - something that "yes" to everything in the fourth Memorandum, unfortunately, is inconsistent - and welcoming foreign non-preferentials, who, in the final analysis, to remember an old expression, will inherit the land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u124	We too, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make an announcement. The Member of Parliament, Mr Zeissios Jekalayas, is applying for a three-day leave for an official mission abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u125	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Here, Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is the right of each side here to represent and express political positions, but it is not its right to reveal to people almost all of the Greek people. Because, Mr Varoufakis, you have today been blatantly abusing the Greek people, because the Greeks today host under good conditions about sixty thousand people in various structures. The relations of the people of local societies with these people are excellent and we face a very strong humanitarian issue in managing them on the islands. Apparently, you're confused. Do you know why? We are not talking here today about the immigration issue or the country's immigration policy. We are talking here about the law of asylum, the protection that people who come from war areas, come from areas where their lives are at risk for various reasons, and we are obliged not only by the Community directive, but on the basis of the Geneva Convention to protect these people. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I will finish, Madam President. You're talking about immigration. However, it must be clear after this clarification that at the moment thousands of people are'saving' are being promoted by the neighbouring country through the Aegean and in ten minutes they are reaching our islands, which are vulnerable and environmentally vulnerable, population, socially and nationally. Can I tell you one more thing? There is also a big issue which you are either ignoring or want to ignore in front of the populism you expressed here a moment ago. There is the question of security, national security, the risks posed by Greeks and our homeland because of the instability in the region as a whole, because of the wars, the problems that exist and the liquidity in the region. Well, the security of all Greeks and all citizens resident in this country, whether foreign or Greek, is our primary concern. That is why, from now on, this government will do, on the one hand, is to apply an asylum law which is fully adapted to needs and respect for rights, but, on the other hand, to the obligation to implement the laws and to the question of security. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u127	Mr Varoufakis, I will give you the floor for a minute to finish the debate here and go to the next speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Chrysochide, I think you are in a very deep confusion. You're confusing the Greek people with Moria. I recently learned - I read - that you went to Moria and said that you are also satisfied with the efforts being made. Mr Chrysochoidis, the Greek people are not Moria, and it is not the political leadership that goes to such an undercover concentration camp and declares satisfaction from the position of the Minister of Civil Protection. Mr Chrysochide, your bill has one goal: to reject the vast majority of asylum applications. That's what she does. You spoke of the boats coming from Turkey. You have actually accepted it. You use persecution, strictness, rejection of asylum applications by people who are on the brink of collapse, to prevent other people from coming. In other words, you are using our grounded fellow workers. That's what you're doing. That's exactly what I talked about. You didn't get it. You want to make Greek citizens your accomplices. We will not allow you to do this as Merra25. The Greek citizens will not allow you to do so. It is not the Greek people conspiracy of those who go to Moria who say they are satisfied with what they have seen and want to continue, to make new, closed hot spots in the rest of the mainland Greece. As far as security is concerned, first of all, no one has proposed opening up the borders and entering without any control. We are talking about a human, humanitarian response to people who are grounded. We say it is really vulnerable to those who are vulnerable, those who have post-traumatic stress. We are talking about a process that does not return them to Turkey, as if Mr Erdogan's country were a safe country. In the end, we are talking about a completely different way of thinking about Greek security, the security of our country. Let us not forget, Mr Chrysochide, that the terrorist attacks that have taken place throughout Europe by Muslims have taken place not because of immigrants, but because of indigenous Muslims, people who had a French passport, a Belgian passport. So you're out of the question of security. But it's not that you're just out of the question. Interesting thing is, you're out of portfolio. It's not your fault. Immigration and asylum should not have anything to do with the Ministry of Civil Protection, because we are not asking the government to protect Greek citizens from foreigners. We are supposed to be discussing a draft law on the protection of foreigners today, but this is something that goes beyond you and is clear - but it does not go beyond the Greek people - and any attempt to identify you with the Greek people, who have done the greatest political crime in the last decade in Europe, slandering the positive women as the Minister for Civil Protection. Please do not talk again about issues relating to the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u129	Madam President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u130	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u131	Minister, please, just give me a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u132	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u133	Because it has been requested for some time now by the President of the Greek Solution to speak and because I am sure you will want to reply to him, you will allow me not to give you the floor at this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u134	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u135	Allow me, Minister. I run the seat.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u136	Madam President, I am entitled to the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u137	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u138	Why should the Chiefs keep talking?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u139	Please, wait a minute, partner! That's what I'm saying. I am running the Chair, and I would like to give the Members a speech. That is why I told the Minister that he would be given the opportunity - I imagine immediately after Mr Velopoulos - to say a few words, to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u140	Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u141	No, Minister, I will not give you the floor, and I will explain why. This process, constantly taking the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u142	But it's on staff! He can't go after that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, please very much. The procedure has to go ahead. They have only spoken four Members and are speaking ninety.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u144	Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u145	Answer, Minister, in a minute, or I'll turn off the microphone. Please, just a minute. I'm sorry, Mr. Velopoulos. Mr. Chrysochoid, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u146	It is clear that Mr Varoufakis - I repeat - is confused. We are talking about another issue here today. Secondly, because the time you said what you wanted every morning in the morning shops and, unfortunately, you spent with your propaganda all the lies to the Greek people and misled a large part of the Greeks is over. From now on you will get an answer for all the issues! You're lying that I went to Moria, and I said it was all right. I said word and congratulate the local society and the people working there on the way in which they cooperate on such a difficult subject. That's what I said. I never said he was so good. Thirdly, from you and many others here, who have your own views, lessons about the security of the country, because I work with my partners every day, along with the simple police officers, along with the ordinary firefighters, along with the Civil Protection to shield the country. So please very much what you have to do is see the bill again, see the provisions that really help those who come and at the same time return those who have no right to live in that country.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr. Velopoulos, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u148	Madam President, why did Mr Varoufakis speak for forty minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u149	Wait a minute, Mr. Velopoulou. Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to all the Heads of State or Government for 15 minutes, because that is what the Rules of Procedure say. Everyone spoke for 20 minutes. I do not think I have wronged anyone so far, so I do not accept any such comments. Thank you. Mr. Velopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Ancient Greek Secretariat there is the word 'democratic'. It is the demagogue who uses and invokes the feeling of listeners, to pass a message that is incompatible with logic. I have already heard the 'democratic'. All the earth's intimidated are welcome. Let everyone come here. We're philanthropists. None of them, however, who eclipse these in here, even hosts one at home. We're talking about a comedian situation. Everyone's a philanthropist with the Greeks' money. Everyone's good people, as long as the refugee isn't in their house. So these are hypocritical. He's a demagogue and a demagogue who doesn't understand what he's saying. It's over and out. I'm sorry for all the inhabited people of the earth. But I didn't hear anything in here, even from the left, about what's happening in Himara with the Greek Northcontinents, who rape them every day, stealing property, kicking them out of there and no one talks! What are they? [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Nobody's talking! Are we interested in Afghanistan or Pakistan? For Himara, no one! Because there are Greeks! They're Greek Northcontinental and it's none of our business! Aren't they going to get everything they want from Rama's Albanians, the drug dealers? They don't care about people in here! Only the Afghan, Pakistani and all the rest of the earth! We have a different view. I have already learned today, Mr Chrysochide, that the Tirana Prosecutor is prosecuting the mother of Katsifa. I'm saying, to understand where we are, Minister. The Tirana Prosecutor is prosecuting the mother of Katsifa, the Albanian-killed. They also prosecute her. No one here spoke. Nobody said anything. We don't care! She's an old mama who lost her child. She could be crazy, crazy, extreme, some say, but she's human. She's a mother who lost her child, Minister. No one, nothing, silence. Extreme tomb silence! When it comes to Greek or Greek women, nobody speaks! If we're talking about something else, then we're all shouting and screaming. Especially did I hear - because I am a Asia Minor in the origins - the leader of a political party comparing the Asia Minor Destruction and the persecution of the refugees, my grandfather, who raped his sisters when they left there, with those who come here and invade them. Which is the incident! How do you compare unparalleled things? And Mercedes is a car and Zastava is a car, but it's not the same. We're going crazy! What does Asia Minor have to do with a war that's gone out of the ground, persecuted by the Pontius, the Miracles, devastated by Kemal Ataturk and their slayers, with the current situation? So, what does it have to do with the Afghan and Pakistani or Algerian, the Moroccan, the Tunisian who come here? Already today, we have reports, dear Minister - you know it better, you're a business minister, you're not a chairwoman - who say there's an Algerian who on Facebook, from Athens, please, is talking about gihad! He's here! No one says so. They don't care. Algerian who resides in Athens speaks of jihad and posts it on his Facebook! He's talking about jihad in Athens! That's what we're dealing with, isn't it? Shouldn't the state take care of the legal order? Shouldn't the state take care of the refining and filtration of illegal, terrorist, jihadists coming to Greece? Come on, shall we all go in? If everyone wants to get in - and I refer to a president whose name I won't say - let them take him home! Let's take five, six of them to give a good example to the rest that he's a philanthropist. And he's got money from what I know. He's not poor either. He's made a lot of money recently. And I wish it would come out, because I'm a businessman, too. But, in any case, he cannot say that all Greeks are miserable, generalizing the special! So let us talk about the rest. I've heard the same thing in here, and no one's reacted. I don't understand what you're doing. Do you swallow everything? He said that the six hundred thousand children who left here, from Greece, in the countries that took them, call them "death immigrants"! Where and where, guys? European passports have! What foolishness, what kind of philosophies are those that sound in here? I don't get it. I mean, there's a limit to pheasy at some point. We say what we want, and we do not care if what we say is reasonable or unreasonable. We're just plundering. I want to say something else, because I'm very happy today. I was here in 2007, ladies and gentlemen. Today, the Prime Minister held a meeting at the Ministerial Council. Stathakis started these issues, so we don't forget. Found a huge gas look within Crete. When I said it here in 2007, in 2009, in 2010, in 2011, in 2012, I was fooled by the entire New Democracy party that ruled until 2009. I'm not talking about PASOK or the others.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u151	You were right back then, along with Pleri and Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u152	Please, Mr. Comrade. Mr President, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u153	Aren't you Mr. Barkas? Oh, okay, since you're Barcas, well, then. Let's go down there, let's get some serious in here. I was talking about natural gas and oil. I'm confirmed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u154	Yes, but you insulted colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u155	I'm not interrupting anyone, Mr. Giannoulis. I have not interrupted anyone and it is inconceivable what you are doing to interrupt. I said about Mr. Stathakis. Mr. Stathakis started the story - I was just as fair as I said, I know very well what I'm saying - with the mistakes, of course, that were made in the course, because mistakes were made...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u156	That question...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u157	Mr. Giannoulis, we won't have a dialogue. You've had me two minutes. Let's actually go. I will not take anything from anyone, because I would like my fellow Members to speak and it is unfair. The Presidents can at least speak longer. Let's actually go. Zor level, big look! If, in 2007, in 2008, 2009, New Democracy was running this issue and listening to me, the only MP who spoke of huge deposits of gas and oil, Greece may not have seen it. Maybe! And a lot of people smile, you know. They're still on the same measles! They haven't put any brains in the New Democracy or PASOK! The Prime Minister then came out, George Papandreou, and said there were no oil in Greece. And this man is still a MP in Greece and people vote him, instead of punishing him for the lie he was saying, because he knew there were oil, as many in here know that there were, they just weren't talking. That's what troubles me and it's what's important. Minister, yesterday we had a whole party in ASE. It's a fair. According to the communication from EL.AS., from now on, the operation of MATs will take place after nine o'clock, except for holidays and holidays, with a temperature of 22 to 23 degrees Celsius and Hermes perimeter! It's the only way that the police can operate if they're the same. I mean, there's been a bad mess, and the police didn't go to order. And we say the asylum has been abolished. No, just legislate without implementing legislation. That's your problem. This is the great problem of Greek society. We legislate, legislate, pluralism, pluralism, but nothing! There's no need for pluralism, one is the law on asylum. The police are coming in, picking up the 20 - they're not more-- they're taking them where they have to take them and the story ends. This mess that prevails must be stopped. I also appeal to the Bureau of Parliament - I will table a document, please - and I tell colleagues in the New Democracy in particular. There is a Rules of Procedure of the House. We need to be dressed in a certain way in here. I can't see people here like they're going to the beach or the beach bars! We must at least get dressed in order to set an example. There is a Rules of Parliament for a decent appearance. We are the Members of the Greek Parliament and at some point the Rules of Procedure, since they exist, must be imposed. It has to be done. We can't go around like this. We must do at least the self-evident things in the Rules of Procedure! We are violating the Rules of Procedure from our question alone. It's a request and an appeal. I'll send a document to the President of Parliament. Mr. Chrysochoid, I have infinite statements. The one who troubled me is the hundred and fifteen thousand who have been lost, my Minister. Where'd they get lost? Beamed? Where did they go? So, where did they disappear? You make unfortunate statements, Minister, and I did not expect you to do so. For example, there is your statement that we want, we do not want, we need to coexist. Who said that, Mr. Chrysochoid? You say, "But eventually, we will all make a decision, and they and we will live together with our laws and rules." Who told you that, Mr. Chrysochoid? You told the Greek people in the election - of course, you are not elected, but I mean your party - that, they do not want, the Greeks do not want, they will coexist with all those who come here? Did you let them know? Did you tell them? Oh, no. So, how do you say it today, with a servitude and arrogance, which, if you like, also hides a conduct of authoritarian nature, if you say 'you want to, do not'? No, we don't. You didn't ask us. You didn't tell us. Let us know. What does the will of the Greek people say? Did you think he'd get your party 40%, Mr. Chrysochoid? Oh, no. You wouldn't take 30% if you said you were going to do this thing now. On the other hand, I hear the Prime Minister of the country having the wrong strategic planning. He's invoking Arab countries. To help him by the Arab countries, so that we don't have that big a wave of poachers, refugees, immigrants. My dear, have you understood why these people are coming here? Why don't they go to Saudi Arabia, which is rich? Why don't they go to Qatar, to the United Arab Emirates, that flows the money and the dollar and the oil and they come here? You tell me! Because they tell us they're grounded, poor, poor. In other words, they invoke the feeling of the Greek man, his humanism, to have a reasonable sense of irrationality in a rush. Let's go to the rich areas that have Islam. Why do they come here, since they're full-blooded and we're bankrupt? This is a question not rhetorical, but essential, based on logic. In fact, I have heard the false argument that Europe is getting older and that we are dying demographicly. I mean, if the gentleman's tooth hurts, he cuts his head off. That's what he told us, that's because the tooth hurts, he cuts his head. Because Europe is getting older, instead of motivating Europeans to give birth to, to motivate tents of two and three children to have four children, we are importing them, as if it were milk or meat import. What's this? Are these reasonable? But when your journey goes with Soros, you can say that. A statement by Soros to "ABC": "You have a decline in birth rates and need a blooming of the economy. It needs growth and it needs to be replaced by immigrants from outside. There is a need for immigrants and development outside.’ This is what George Soros said at 'ABC'. So I'm telling you, some people say exactly the same things strange and compassionate. I don't know if they're being taught by there or enlisted by there or just having the same opinions, but that's not reasonable, that's absurd. We shall now proceed to the word 'Racism'. Because I studied the Greek language, in any case we went to a school related to History and Archaeology, History and Philosophy. Listen a little. "Racism": The word is not Greek, gentlemen. Raza comes out of a certain word. Racism is not a Greek word. So if the Greeks were racist, they would have invented the word. She's a lunatic, she's Latin, raza. If you really want to talk in terms of conceptuality, say 'tribalism'. I understand that. It's a bad thing to say, though. You've learned a word and run away and throw it straight away. If the other guy disagrees, you call him a racist. "Xenophobic": Because concepts and terms are specific and constituted by a dictionary, xenophobic doesn't mean I'm afraid of the stranger. Learn Greek at least. Xenophobic doesn't mean I'm afraid of the stranger. It means I don't want to have a stranger next to me, I'm afraid not because he's a stranger, but because he's a stranger. A lot of people are afraid of it. That's what Plato says. I'm not saying it. So if you want me to answer you in a different way, I will tell you what'multiculturalism' means. Because here you are all fans of multiculturalism and the Prime Minister of the country wants us to boast multiculturally, to answer him by arguments now if there is multiculturalism. I have heard this paradox here, giving me as an example of multicultural society in the United States. That's what you're all telling me. You know, gentlemen, where the natives and natives went? I'll tell you what. The Apaches became helicopters, the Cherokee became jeep. Do you want, in a hundred years, not to have Greeks and only to have some people here? Because this is America. Violence has been imposed by multiculturalism, destroying natives and natives. And I'm saying this as an argument to prove the plight of some people's arguments in here. Multiculturalism. Where did it apply? In Europe? He said here that we had colonies, that the Europeans would go away and that they would emigrate. They didn't migrate. Colonists and slaves were these criminals who left France, Spain, Portugal, the Netherlands, Belgium and broke Africa and Latin America and slaughtered the natives. Do you not learn from history what happens to the peoples who so welcome, if you like, without preparation for those who invade their countries? I'll tell you what. They're slaughtered in the end. Is that what you want? Is that what the Left wants? Is that what we're all asking? To destroy the Pontius, the Asia Minor, the Peloponnese, the Saraksan and all of these? Some people look at me strange, but unfortunately for you this is the reality, it's the raw reality. I said for the natives, I'll tell you something very simple. If you really want to have a strong state, a strong state, strong, copy Israel. We're two nations of siblings. We're a nation of siblings really. Copy Israel. What did Israel do? He made a wall. He's protecting his borders. That means state, mighty force, powerful force. I protect my borders, not everyone comes in. By reason of yours, in 1940 the Italians shouldn't have come with the guns, they had to come with the boats. The bouncers were wrong. Instead of coming with the guns, they had to come with the boats and welcome them. It's an aristocratic way of expressing, but it's a reality. At some point we have to see the truth, not what we think we would like it to be, but what it really is. And I say it to you. And since many of you are Merkel's fans, let me tell you what Merkel said, 'cause I'm watching a German press. I have this advantage. Ms Merkel recently, speaking to her youth, said: "Multiculturalism in Germany has failed. The attempt to establish a multicultural society in Germany has completely failed. It is not easy to succeed and it will fail." You come three years later, when Merkel herself says that this genius is a failure, to apply it to Greece and we have the Prime Minister say multiculturality, to blush, etc. What should we get into trouble with? With the clippings, with the burgeons? What can the Greek do with what? You tell me. With the woman who's "thing", who's locked up like she's in the crate, who's getting married to two and three women? Is that what we're gonna get jammed up with? If you tell me 'yes', we should talk about it, see what we can do. Some falcons might make it easier for them to get married to three women, I say. The French Interior Minister at the "FRANCE IDEE", says: "French has failed to integrate its immigrants." So how do you all tell me we can incorporate them? Who are you? The hounds? How will you incorporate Ibrahim, who has learned to beat his wife every day? How will you incorporate Hassan, who has learned to be married to two women? His religion allows it. There you will say that, because it is a religious matter, let us leave it, like the Sharia, which exists in Thrace. I'm telling you, because we'll find it in front of us. And this bill is a crime against the nation, because I love my country. First Greece, first the Greeks, first my nation, my Orthodoxy, and then I can help every Ibrahim and every Hassan. That's my opinion. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And because you talked about racism, I'd like to tell you who's racist now, to end the tale with their racist Greeks. The poachers, based on the bill, find work automatically. They find them a job straight away. The Greeks have more than 20% unemployment. The poachers have tax immunity. The Greek pays. The people who come here, Mr Chrysochide, have tax immunity. The Greek pays every month and, if he doesn't pay, you confiscate him at home. They don't give proof, they're smuggling, etc. That's what they are anyway. Poor bastards are going to make money. But the Greek is taxed. The money they collect sends to their homes, you know that? Where does the Greek send them?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u158	Why are the Greeks sending them?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u159	Listen, sir, with a thousand emoluments in three years' time, this man has a preferential pension of 650 euros. How many years does the Greek get 650 euros? [[Noise in the Chamber]] Don't make me like that. If you don't like the Greek, it's your problem. I want the Greeks first and then everyone else. In three years' pension? Are we serious in here? And the Greek man has been working like a man of 50 years to retire 600 euros and if he ever gets it? They enjoy a free roof. Who are the racists now? They have a free roof. The Greek pays both rents and taxes and HISPIA. They enjoy a free diet. If the Greek doesn't have to buy, he'll die homeless. They enjoy free care. The Greek, if he doesn't have any badges, he's normally paying to go to hospitals. They enjoy training courses in vocational training. The Greek doesn't like that. They have free phones. The Greek doesn't have these. They have free power. The Greek doesn't have these. So who's a racist? He's the one who wrongs the Greek in relation to someone else. So, then, the bill is highly racist against the Greeks, because we have two categories of citizens: those who have come now and have privileges and those who no longer have privileges and are the Greeks who are bankrupt, the homeless, the poor. Because the Greek has become a poor man. That's the problem, and you don't understand it. You say in the bill, Minister - because it is a laughing matter for the whole story - that you incorporate European directives. I do not understand why it should, save and well, Greece incorporates all the directives of Europe when there are the countries of Visegrad, which incorporate nothing. I say, therefore, that they do not incorporate any directives. I want you to hear what I'm saying. The other countries do not incorporate what Europe says, only Greece must apply them, only we Greeks. A fair distribution of flows does not apply in all Member States. If international conditions were to apply, the Germans had to accept, my dear friends, unaccompanied children. If what they say really were to be applied, the Germans had not even asked us to take the unaccompanied children. They don't take them, so no such treaty applies. We're applying it all. The "cassides' head" in Greece, therefore, everyone learns to do their job. Now listen to something that bothers me. Rights, access to education. Do you know what you're going to do? You will have me 20 children, who do not yet have the cognitive depth and level, with Greeks in the same class. I'm telling you in the same class. Do you know what that means? You will lower the level of Greek students to lower, forcedly. It's self-evident, I say, that I went to German school. I know what I'm telling you. I went to German school in Germany. The learning level of the Germans and the language level were above. What are you going to do? You know? Will you already dismantle the broken Greek education? You give them medical care, accommodation, social integration benefits, medical examinations, right to legal aid. You don't have any obligations. Listen a little. You're equating stateless, i.e. stateless, with them here. You're equating them! Isn't that bothering you? It is a stateless man who declares that he has no nationality of another country. Moroccans will come here, he will say "I have no citizenship", so take the Greek one. How much? With 100 euros. Here, how can I be Greek? You get it easy. It's nine cases. With 100 euros, you give a paradox and you become a Greek. So cheap it costs to be a Greek! I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] It's okay. I say what I think. If some people don't believe it, it's their thing. So let's actually go. Now listen. Here's the big crime you didn't understand what you were going to do. Listen, Minister. A hundred thousand are the ones who came now? Two hundred thousand? How many are there, Minister, we know? Is it fifty, thirty thousand? How many do you want? Play an auction, a tender. How many are there? Twenty, thirty, forty thousand? Let me say it's thirty thousand, although there's a lot more. The law says there are preconditions for their families to be reinstated in Greece. They have seven and eight kids each. In other words, he who is to be legalized here can bring fifteen more with him. That is, multiply them ten, twenty or thirty thousand by seven or six, because they have two women each with whom they have four children, and calculate how many they will be in the end. Suddenly, the twenty or thirty or fifty thousand will become four hundred or five hundred thousand from nowhere in four to five years. There's no insurance policy on that. There'll be hundreds of thousands of them. You give them the opportunity to come hundreds of thousands. That's the weird part. I honestly can't understand how you've reached the point, Minister, to bring such a bill. I can't understand it. It's unbelievable! Also, Minister, why did you do this? Why are you banning push - back, Minister? With Article 21, with the principle of non-refoulement, you are essentially canceling the push-back, the right we have as a country such as Australia, America, Italy and Salvini to push-back. Why are you doing this? What for? Because if you didn't want to do push - back, close the non-governmental organisations, which most of them in there are squeeze. They're undisturbed, sieved, and most of them save. [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] After you fly every little bit and a little, I'll answer you right now. Most of them are symbols, Minister. There are, of course, some little children in the New Democracy, too, who do business. Close non-governmental organizations that do legal slave trade. Mrs Canelley said so, she was absolutely right and analysed it. They're doing legal slave trade. Close them and you'll see how the inputs will stop, how they'll stop coming here. [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] Turkish non-governmental organization in Lesvos, what does it have to do with it, Mr. Giannoulis? To go to Turkey, to go to Asia Minor to do her job, not here. So, Minister, that's what you have to do. Raise a wall to Evros, not a wire. Don't even get in a mosquito. Of course, people go in, they don't get mosquitoes, but everyone comes in. There are solutions and proposals. As far as the inhabited islands are concerned, it is our view and we do not change it. We, Minister, do not even go to local society in Brasna, "you do not want, you are a hundred people in the winter and you will get a thousand poachers, refugees and immigrants". This is authoritarianism. To the limits of fascism is to go to an area without asking the region and force it by force to coexist with others, five times as many people, or in any area of Greece. Not in residential areas, because that is how you cancel the Treaty of the European Union with Turkey, which speaks only of the islands. I'm saying it as simple as I can, so those who don't understand. You are, of course, talking about the principle of dispersal. Crime, crime, crime! Finally, I want to say this because I don't have much time, although I would have needed it. I'll tell you something very simple.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u160	Mr. President, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u161	I'm closing now, Madam President. Mr. Chrysochoid, you're an operational minister. Do we have a hybrid war with Turkey, yes or no? We do. Tell them over there, to understand sometime that, when you have a hybrid war, you shield your homeland, you don't leave it undisturbed vine, altering the population composition and the children who are now up there, ten years and fifteen years old, will go abroad for immigrants, will leave here only Ibrahim and Hassan will be left. We say, first of all, George, Nikos, Stavros, benefits, benefits, equation, social welfare and all and then all of this, Minister. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] You put them first and then the Greeks. We'll find it in front of us, unfortunately. I'll say it again one more time. You may not be Minister, I may not be here in ten or fifteen years, but there will be a few Greeks resisting, because you will have filled Greece with a lot of people who do not know who they are. They could be terrorists, they could carry diseases. You don't do any control and our children and our grandchildren will call the House of 2019 and 2020, because they did nothing about all of this. I wish I was wrong. Unfortunately, however, I'm afraid the mistake is yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u162	Thank you to the President of the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u163	Madam President, please, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u164	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u165	For a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u166	Minister, allow me. I have a Chamber and infinite Members who have not spoken. Every so long, if you stand up and ask for the floor for anything anyone says, we will never end in this Chamber and no Member will speak. Please, gather what you want to gather...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u167	For a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u168	One minute you said and said before and you spoke for three minutes. I'll give the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u169	When he asks the Minister for the floor, he shall be given by the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u170	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u171	I protest, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u172	Protest. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know how many Members have left, who have not spoken yet? Have you understood that? You're all complaining when you're not taking the floor. But when it's time for everyone to keep the time, none of you keep it. And that's a matter in this Chamber. So you are creating a problem in the Chair, you are creating a problem for colleagues too. So I say to the Minister, because he will listen to too much today, because it is a particular bill, let him collect it all and take a certain amount of time, so that we can finish with colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u173	Just a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u174	I'll give you the floor for a minute. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u175	Firstly, with Mr Velopoulos, we have a number of different views. There may be a gap, but, anyway, we won't find it in here right now. They're his opinions, he keeps them, and I don't want to get into it right now, since I don't have much time. I just want to say a word on the issue of Europe, because we incorporate the directives here. Because, ladies and gentlemen, there is a basic fundamental rule, which is the incorporation of all Union law from the day we became members of the European Union to this day. So everything that is being voted on there is a acquis communautaire and that is a very good thing, because that is how we move forward. Secondly, Europe is not a static thing. I have to tell you that last night Zehofer, the German Minister, had a conversation with five large countries in Europe, and they are already extending the agreement or the Declaration, if you wish, to Malta for a burden-sharing. That's the big deal for us. So we're moving forward. Thirdly, and I'm ending with it, just a word about the S.H.I.E.L.E.L.D. Look, don't claim business roles, neither do you. I'm a political chief of police. So the police know very well and I trust my fellow officers when they will do this, how they will do this, and how they will enforce legality. Be sure of this, Mr Velopoulos, that legality is imposed day after day and all universities, all Athens areas, all city centres will cleanse and be accessible to all citizens. You should know that. It's my word to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u176	Minister, you will allow me to tell you that you could say all this in your dentistry and not take time from Members. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty students and students and three educational attendants from the Overa High School of Achaias. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Athanasios from the Greek Solution has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u177	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill which, although theoretically incorporates Community directives, is certainly not only leading to the permanent establishment in our country of all hundreds of thousands of people who have entered it, but also creates a strong aim for all those who are preparing to come by offering migratory incentives and certainly a friendly environment for the development of such thoughts. For thousands of years, hospitality and support have been and remain characteristic of the Greek nation. In every difficult period, but also in the great wars of mankind, the Greek home offered refuge to groups persecuted, such as the Hebrews, for example, during World War II. However, ladies and gentlemen, this bill does not regulate the hospitality, assistance and treatment of these populations. On the contrary, I would say, it makes us somewhat hostage to a seemingly generalised world situation. And I say 'Phentically', because it tends to develop into a pure Greek problem, which we do not control in terms of its evolution, and we cannot treat as a country and as a society, regardless of the funds that we eat, in order that this problem can only be left to us, confined to our country alone. How much more so that this whole situation, on the one hand, is a strategic choice to attack the daily lives of the European citizen, but, above all, a strategic choice to attack the structures of the Greek state and the conscience of the Greek people. In the given case, Greek citizens are not only called upon to provide help to their fellow humans, but to change their everyday lives in a symphony without any reason, without a choice. And all this in one direction not visible, not to say foggy and dark. Ladies and gentlemen, there are countries as European and welcoming as Greece. However, these countries refuse the uncontrolled reception of all these flows, which, as we say so, even if there is an organised migration plan, we should not just talk about flows, but about hordes. What do we do for the last few years? Unfortunately - it seems with the bill that we are debating today - we are managing persons of doubtful identity, of doubtful integrity, of doubtful morality, who neither do we know their needs nor what happened to them. There are many reasons why someone might even want to emigrate but also to be regarded as a refugee. But that does not mean that we, despite our ambition as a nation, can accept their legitimacy in our country. If nothing else, we are a small country, with a weak economy, weakened citizens, but at the same time it is at very great risk and is also taking threats. We come to one of the many key issues, ladies and gentlemen. What do you want to see, anyway? We come to the issue of the invoking need to disperse these populations on Greek territory. And even though we should reasonably dismantle our islands from the situation that has been created, what do we, in the end, do with this bill? We do clearly and without spins: Installing the entire Greek territory... hosting places you want to say it, refugee and migrant camps you want to say it? Say it what you want. We call them illegal immigrants. I'll tell you something about the kids coming, the chauffeurs. And we remember both the chauffeur and Myrtoo of Paros and the consequences that this girl faces. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] We therefore establish coordinates of cellular enclosures, which allow violent and incompatible in the body of Greece to be dispersed, with a potential risk of being converted, as we have recently seen, into storms of reaction, turbulence and developments. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, we see the creation of large foreign population structures throughout the territory, certainly a different religion and, of course, with different cultural features, with the ultimate aim of altering the population living in our country. I fear that, if we go on like this, in a few years, we will end up being a minority, not to say guests to our country. I don't understand. We should finally adapt to their habits, attitudes and beliefs, or those who invade our country, who hosts them, must comply, discipline and respect its citizens, its customs and its customs? Do you think this population will ever consider as its patron and benefactor the Greek state and the Greeks? Let's not be fooled. They will always look at the East, because, as their religion and their laws impose, and even unwittingly they will become a lever for the expansional interests of our neighbors. Because else it is that we can coexist with populations of other cultures and become one with them. And don't rush to give me the xenophobic sign, as my personal life shows the exact opposite. My great concern is that, instead of incentivising repatriation and family reunification to our young people who have left in the years of the crisis, to family members who have been separated from their families in order to ensure their livelihood, instead of giving financial incentives to the new couples, to new mothers to bring to the world Greeks, in order to address our demographic issue, you are choosing the privilege of reunification to limit it to immigrants rather than to Greek citizens. And in the end, you choose and prefer to cover the population gaps in the easy way, which, of course, does not cause economic costs in our national economy, but is a major blow, with incalculable and irreversible cost to our national identity.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u178	Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u179	I shall conclude, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u180	You've already been through time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u181	Ladies and gentlemen, it is time at last to learn from our recent history and from our bad practices so far. Let us not wait for the moment when we will be forced - because everything shows that we will be forced - to say, "Who are the children of Greeks, defending a child for a child." Because, as you think and legislate, when that moment comes, the majority of children will not be Greek and will certainly not feel Greece as their homeland to defend it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u182	My colleague, you have gone far beyond your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, it is time for you to show the highest virtue of political and political steadfastness. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u184	Madam President, I ask you to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u185	Staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u186	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u187	It's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u188	Mr President, please, let him speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u189	But, Madam President, it's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u190	This isn't a picture. If there's anything on staff, he'll say. If he doesn't, he won't take the floor. It's so simple.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u191	Let me explain, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u192	Is it personal, Mr. Comrade? If it's not personal, I won't give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u193	I think it is a personal offense to all the inhabitants of Thessaloniki. And I'm a resident.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u194	It was an insult to the committee...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u195	All right! All right!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u196	While for the flag and the ridicule in New Philadelphia, you didn't say anything!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u197	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u198	Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a picture.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u199	He won't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u200	You will not tell me, Mr President, whether or not he will speak. I'll judge it. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a picture of Parliament. Let me say that. Mr. Giannoulis, if it's not personal, when you get the floor, at the time you speak, you can refer to this matter. As they are not on personal grounds, I will not give you the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u201	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u202	Mrs Adamopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u203	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u204	When you get the floor, you'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u205	He won't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u206	Please let the process go smoothly. One of your parliamentary group can take the floor and refer to it. Don't delay the process. [[Noise from the ward of Greek Solution]] Please! Please! We are wrongly delaying the procedure. I honestly tell you that this is not a picture of Parliament and of people elected by the Greek people to be in here. Allow me. Mrs Adamopoulou has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the government argues that the bill contains some important innovations. Of course, the margins of consultation have indeed been extremely suffocating and the provisions of the bill can undoubtedly lead to a de facto refusal to exercise the rights of applicants for international protection, on the practicable side, to exclude a particularly vulnerable category of people from asylum procedures, to deprive even of the right to effective and effective recourse. I move directly on to the articles because I don't have much time. Article 46 of the draft law repeals the automatic review of the administrative detention decisions provided for in Article 46(5) of L.4375/2016. Although there was a problematic implementation, the introduction of this characteristic was a result of recommendations from international organisations, such as the Special Rapporteur on the Rights of Immigrants. It is therefore a serious and unjustified regression for the protection of asylum seekers in Greece, while, with regard to this extension, the Government should turn to measures to ensure the effectiveness of reviewing detention decisions in practice. The extension of the maximum detention period, during which asylum seekers could be detained from forty-five days to fifty days, where the provision says ‘the reasons for imposing it continue’, is an exaggerated problematic provision for its misuse even in individual cases, which these reasons would not be met, so that this prolonged detention would run counter to the guarantees provided by Article 3 of the ECHR. Article 117(2) seeks the full establishment of the independent appeal committees by administrative judges, which has even deplored the Association of Administrative Judges, abolishing their participation in them by the High Authority of the United Nations, in accordance with the provisions of Article 5 of Law No.4375/16. During the current practice, these persons were almost all lawyers with exclusive qualifications and occupation in the Asylum Law and a significant international protection experience, as most of them have been serving asylum committees since 2013. These lawyers therefore come from a register of experts, which were included following a competitive procedure, which included a written examination and an interview. These committees, thanks, of course, to the valuable contribution they have made, so far have been fully successful, effectively, unbiased and with respect for the right to a proper prior hearing of the applicants for international protection, the administrative procedure on the requests in question. Moreover, the proposed regulatory change alters even the administrative nature of the committee, which is primarily responsible for formulating a substantive crisis, thus turning it into a quasi-judiciary, which is purely legal. This change, therefore, gives rise to questions even about the possibility of effective judicial protection in practice, since applications for annulment against the decisions of the committees will be heard by the administrative court, i.e. by lower-ranking judges in the judiciary, against the perpetrators, who will be members of the committees. It is generally possible to impose geographical restrictions in all regions of the country. We already know that the structures on the islands are inadequate, they are the most inappropriate, so even this generalization will create more deadlocks, not only in the islands but also in the inland. In combination with the previous measures, therefore, the position of the applicants is deteriorating and we consider it to create explosive situations. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. I do not have time to analyse all the articles I wanted. I just want to raise a crucial issue, which is directly linked to both the bill and the general policy on the refugee issue. We believe that the Dublin Regulation needs to be amended immediately. Union law is not simply not applicable. They're just as inadequate. I am referring in particular to Article 3 of the regulation, which considers that it is responsible for examining asylum claims it should be the primary state, the host State, without there being any predictions, practices, so that applicants in the host State are not, in fact, caught up in the host State, but that there is a level playing field, a proportionate burden-sharing in all Member States. We therefore believe that there should be a relocation mechanism between the countries of the European Union for their decent reception. And to this end we consider the recent statement by German Interior Minister Horst Zehoff, who, following a meeting with counterparts from the five largest countries of the European Union, talked about the need for a new philosophy in the management of the refugee problem. He pointed out that the Dublin Regulation has not been working for a long time, so it should be the basis for a future European Union asylum policy. We hope that this new German policy will be implemented. So the procedures must start from the host State, but must also be completed in the rest of the Member States. We consider this initiative to be important because a misunderstanding needs to be resolved: that Greece and any other host country are solely responsible and accountable for managing the refugee issue when the rest of the states so far simply wash their hands. So I will not agree that the European Union, as the Minister said, is helping us. The European Union despairs all its international contractual obligations, shifting the burden from economic and political to the states that welcome refugees. In the light of this policy' s strictness, we believe that the current government and each government should exercise a stricter policy and dialogue with our partners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, too. Mr Simopoulos has the floor now from New Democracy and Mr Tagaras is also being prepared from New Democracy. Mr. Simopoulos, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the expression 'immigrants are being melted into Omonia' obviously and it was not the reason for the enormous refugee current that the country accepted. It was, however, a completely vague expression of how to deal with the issue from the government at the time. What was the result? A million refugees went through the country heading towards northern and central Europe and of course closed borders. At the same time, in order to avoid any doubt, the Prime Minister then appointed twice as Ministers for Migration a member with long experience in important positions of non-governmental organisations to treat refugees. In simple terms, in Turkey, in traffickers and refugees, without wanting to do so, we have given the signal that the country has an open borders and at a government level, in this respect, is similar to a large non-governmental organisation. This non-governmental organization is called "Greece". It cannot return to Turkey - refugees. On the contrary, it creates the conditions for them to stay here permanently. This is how the international protection procedure was used, which essentially operated - and operated - as a lever for permanent residence of refugees in Greece. We are changing this process with the bill under discussion. With respect to the rules of the European Union and the UN Charter, we are speeding up the procedures. In fact, we are doing so at a time when the problem arises, which now has more migration than refugees, a dimension and - take care - with borders closed down. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] The target of twenty thousand returns to Turkey by the end of 2020 is therefore necessary. Yes, with better border care, with the decongestion of the islands, with pre-repellatory centres, the pressure from the Greek society on immigration - refugee will be reduced. Because, gentlemen of counterpopulation, there's a pressure. And the pressure is not about those who react extremely. It is about the vast majority of Greek society. The government must do something and do it now. It is not reasonable that there is climate change or wars or bombing by the Westerners in the states of the third world, so we must raise our hands up. Because this problem is not just an international problem. It's not just an international dimension. It has an internal dimension. That is why you cannot understand, and that is why a special coordinator with great management and organisational competence has also been put in place, to strengthen this aspect of the problem, particularly with regard to the information of local communities and the distribution of refugees. You do not understand that without management capacity within the country, we would continue to have 'Mories', without changing the way asylum is granted, we would continue not to return the refugees. Yeah, it takes a list of safe spaces. Yes, we need to reduce the time spent on asylum applications. Yes, there must be refunds and, yes, there must be compliance by everyone in the laws of the Greek state. That's what the government does. It finds the golden balance, the measure between the need, which comes from the Greek society for security and a decent level of life, and the humanism that our deep Greek tradition demands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr. Simopoulos. Mr. Tagaras from New Democracy has the floor for five minutes, and then Mrs. Gara from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u211	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the refugee crisis today is an extremely important geopolitical, national, social and humanitarian issue. In order to deal effectively with the increasing migration flows to the Aegean islands, the closed borders and the lack of refugee reception infrastructure, we are bringing in a single legislative text all those arrangements that will be a useful tool for all those involved. With the bill we set clear and concrete rules, putting an end to the ambiguity of what actually applies at legislative level, which affected the operation of services, but also the applicants themselves, who were unable to understand exactly what the procedure, rights and obligations were. The largest part of the bill is that, for the first time, a law on international protection is laid down, including the directives establishing the common European asylum system, governing the reception, examination and recognition of applicants. This bill introduces important innovations. It includes rules which everyone should apply because otherwise they will be referred to the return procedure. This way we put a definitive end to anarchy and infraction at the reception stage. It is also provided for a right to remain in the country until the administrative examination of their application is completed in the first degree, as well as for when the applicants are not entitled to remain in the country even if they have appealed to the independent appeal committees. Thus, the main targeting of the bill, which is the return of the applicants already from the first degree, is being implemented. Rapid assistance from the asylum service shall be established, which shall, with the participation of the International Immigration Organisation, immediately after the registration of the application, inform the applicant of the progress of its case. The person concerned is thus facilitated to freely choose his voluntary return. Cases brought before the Court of First Instance shall be accelerated by shortening the time limits, both for the case and for the adoption of judgments. We are reducing the duration of the International Protection Bulletins. We are accompanying the duration of the cards with the adoption of the decision and not with its performance, as has been the case so far. We therefore oblig the applicants to contact the authorities more regularly and to make it easier to identify them. The bill we are called upon to vote today contains arrangements that make our country a sovereign state, which knows how to safeguard its borders, with respect always for human rights. The sense of security of the Greek society is strengthened and confidence in a rule of law is guaranteed. This bill is exactly what our country needs now, in order to manage this critical situation that our country is facing first and foremost and therefore Europe, by establishing an international protection regime for those who really need it. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty to respect human rights. But at the same time, all of us are responsible for the national security of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u212	Thank you too for keeping time, Mr President. Mrs Gara now has the floor, and then Mr Varzopoulou from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u213	Mr President, listening to the shameful - I would say - speech by Mr Velopoulos, I feel the obligation to defend my fellow citizens in Thrace and to say that there are Greeks and Greek women named Hassan, Ibrahim, Eise and Ali in Thrace. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and Mera25]] And the paradox of history is that many in Thrace came refugees in '23 and Hassan and Aise were there. It is this knowledge of history, which often beats and throws all the nationalist narratives that suit some not only to lift and articulate a racist speech, but also to buy many times. Ladies and gentlemen, obviously no one can question that we are facing another outbreak of refugee flows and obviously it is not the SYRIZA's fault. I hope you realize that. But what we can confirm is the impossibility of managing the flow of reception and hospitality by the government. Unfortunately, your inability, at least for the first few months, is confirmed. And refugee and immigration are top issues, which at least concern me, as are the wider society concerned. However, this concern is also exacerbated by irresponsible and dangerous racist statements made by government or by New Democracy, speaking of poachers, of invasion of criminals, of a security problem, of a plan to alter our culture. Unfortunately, you have fallen into the trap, which you yourself set, with the propaganda that you had in the election. Of course, we have heard several members of the New Democracy and other parties, such as before, talking about border armour, about fences in Evros, about walls that will not pass fly, about iron and fences in Evros. And, of course, the climax of all this drama came with the statement by Almighty Antonis Georgiades, who informed us that no one goes through Evros. I wonder if we are living in the same country, if we are living in the same reality, if we are all living in Greece and, of course, I wonder if you have seen the map, if you have seen the geography of Evros, if anyone can tell us how a fence can enter into a river, unless you suggest us crossing Turkish waters and provoke military intervention on the other side. We have to welcome and save people at risk in our own waters. As to whether someone passes by Evros, let Mr. Georgiadis ask the services responsible for the flows in my own place. I would like to inform him that not only do we cross the river, but for the first time we welcome refugees and immigrants from the maritime area. We accept over five hundred people a day. I should also like to inform you that we are again experiencing tragic times of 2012 and 2013, with hundreds of influxes and people trapped in non-existent infrastructures, in terrible conditions. And I am thinking of a society of Thrace and Evros that has been receiving refugees and immigrants with understanding for years, with solidarity, with tolerance and with great concern, but of concern that, as I said before, is caused by your racist statements and the rhetoric you have used by raising xenophobic messages. Electionally, then, you said that it was the SYRIZA's fault and you would solve the refugee stick with a magic wand. Your like a long-awaited government collapses like a paper tower. Unfortunately, however, we are all paying for your lies. So let us be serious and deal with serious problems that are intensified by your own flaw. Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of your government service you have taken dangerous and disastrous initiatives. Initially, you abolished the Ministry of Migration Policy, with the result in particular that police services should be charged with additional responsibilities and that more structures should be managed, but with the same staff capacity. Furthermore, you have not taken care of the staff employed in the host and hosting structures, with the necessary staff contracts to end in the coming months. What are you going to do, for example, with the workers who have been hired by the 3K Declaration and ending in February? They'll be emptying all the RUBs from staff. Your second criminal energy is the abolition of the AMCA and the inability of refugees and immigrants to access public health structures. And I say it is criminal, because you are putting not only the health of refugees but also the local communities and people at risk. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me one more minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u214	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u215	You are currently bringing a bill, which does not only solve problems, but also creates much more. It is essentially a string of European directives with several overlappings, which in practice lead to a dead end. You are also bringing anti-constitutional provisions, while even anticipating the military's involvement in the asylum investigation. This bill is an ineffective and ineffective bill, while it plays with the limits of international law and the circumvention of human rights. Overall, the central problem of the bill is that there is a deterioration in the asylum investigation process, it creates multiple obstacles and massification, and so many asylum seekers are out of the system. Again, I say that it is unapplicable legislation and will produce a huge population of people without papers, who will be locked in Greece and outside the hosting structures. You don't give a solution and perspective.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mrs. Gara.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u217	I shall conclude, Mr President. I would like to say that your most criminal energy in me is that you do not highlight the problem as a European and you do not give a way out and a claim to Europe. Finally, Minister - one more second I will speak - I have tabled an amendment which is the responsibility of Mr Hatzidakis, concerning the Evros huts at the border. Please consult him, so that we can give the necessary extension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u218	Thank you very much. I would ask you very much to take care of the time, because it is not that you take more time, but you remove speakers. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u219	Mr President, I shall table in plenary some purely technical improvements to inform Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u220	Now Mr Varzopoulou has the floor from New Democracy, and immediately thereafter Mr Muzalas from SYRIZA. And it is very important that you keep your time, please. Here you go, Mr. Varzopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u221	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is an excellent bill, it will be an excellent law, which will put order on really thorny issues, on real thorny things. This law will apply to three populations of refugees and migrants. One of them is on the islands. I am absolutely certain that it will impose tangible and essential order within a minimum period of time. There are two other populations, though. One is the population of all these refugees and migrants who have been identified on the islands and have been transferred to the inland and who are waiting for the asylum application to be dealt with, whether they are located in houses - that is, hotels, rooms, or apartments - or in organised camps in the outskirts outside the settlements. There is another population: they are the completely illegal, those who have either been identified and disappeared or those who have been paying attention right from the outset. They are arrested by hundreds every day and, as experienced police officers say, they are causing their arrest so that they can immediately apply for asylum and legalise their stay. We know that of these two populations about 3/4 have an excellent - to say it elegantly - low refugee profile. This means that as soon as it gets close - and now it will come very quickly - the day of the asylum application, there is a huge risk - not to say for sure that they will dive into illegality. They will therefore create explosive phenomena in the social environment. The only way to deal with this phenomenon, this risk, is to effectively control their place of residence and movement. We don't have to publish here, we don't have to start here. There are better European practices to tackle this risk, this phenomenon. I mention, in particular, what is being used in Bavaria, has now spread throughout Germany and is also used in Austria, the famous Ankerzentren, the anchor centres, the translation of the German acronym for the words 'leaving, decision, social integration, or return', which are of course not prisons. They are decent accommodations, of course well-controlled and guarded, where a number of services are offered, such as children's stations, schools, medical care, psychological support and, of course, all legal services for seeking asylum. But all this must be done, ladies and gentlemen, one thing is certain: the problem will not be dealt with unless the numbers are checked, unless the entrances are reduced, and if the exits are not increased. With regard to entry, the rules of involvement of the Hellenic Coast Guard, fully respecting humanitarian international law, give the opposite the clear message that Greece is not being blackmailed. It is not blackmailed by the threats of serums, either grounded or grounded. He's just not blackmailing. It is quite clear that we are not sneezing instruments and personnel in order to increase patrols to the full, in order to protect the maritime borders, as we effectively protect the land. It is absolutely characteristic that the immortal way the Turkish Minister for Foreign Affairs expressed himself, using genuinely ignorant lies, thus giving the impression that he is really concerned, thus showing that we are actually on the right track. There's a matter of expenses. I fear that Turkey will not honour its signature. Europeans, too, do not accept relocations. I hope, Minister, that the real effort that Horst Zehoff has now started will have a substantial effect. The only other solution is with Europe in the face of man - made exchanges to ask the host countries to accept back all those who have to go to their homelands. Let me have a epithelium. Why don't we keep them all here indiscriminately? Why not live with them as we live as immigrants in so many millennia? I answer these questions: How many of them really want to stay here? How many real bets in the tragic sense are there? How many want to adopt our way of life, accept our basic values? Ladies and gentlemen, there is a European way of life, the best - in my opinion - that man has made. This European way of life people want to protect. It has nothing to do with origin or language. It has to do with the basic values, with the basic answers to the basic questions of life, what Kastoriadis said "the fantastic establishment of societies". That European way of life is what we at the border are calling on to protect and we will do so. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr. Varzopoulos. Mr Mouszalas now has the floor, and then Mr Janakopoulos, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. Here, Mr. Muzala, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u223	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, three assumptions before my speech: the Europe-Turkey Agreement was a very difficult agreement, with many gaps, helped our country. This is a basis on which everyone is talking and ought to say whether they want an agreement, this Europe-Turkey agreement improved and as best it can or want the situation of 2015. The second is that we are in Europe. Therefore, if no one has a proposal to leave Europe, it incorporates European law into Greek law. A statement: I won't get into this game of remarks and emotions. It is an easy reason in front of a very difficult thing, which is immigration and refugee. The less one has dealt with immigration and refugee, the easier one is being populated. Let me say something positive for the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Civil Protection and therefore for the Government. It was excellent to address this incredible dirty statement by Turkey's Foreign Minister, Mr Tsavosoglu. However, the Minister describes it as'spirits'. What does Mr. Cavusoglu say? That we don't guard the borders, that we shoot refugees and immigrants, we throw them back. It's your MPs! What does Mr. Cavusoglu say? It says that we take the boats and send them back, we prevent them from going to sea. It's called your district managers. What else does Mr. Cavusoglu say? That we're preventing at sea. It's not a bad idea, they say your MPs, the deterrence to the sea. What else does Mr. Cavusoglu say? That we make life here, we beat them, we imprison them, we boil them with oil, we do things. "To get worse than in their own countries," your MPs say. You'll have to deal with this, gentlemen. Why should I tell you something? To safeguard the law, we are pleased that all this burden falls on the Left, but it should be your case. In other words, it should be a case of bourgeois, who went through the Enlightenment, and they realized that the Voltaire, except in French, is something else. That should, in other words, be taken care of. In front of getting out of government, you made this wonderful call and this incredible propaganda. Dissolved the LAOS, dissolved the Golden Dawn, their seeds came to you. We hear every day in the panels what Mr Tsavosoglu said, that is, garbage. You're messing with the propaganda with the management. Your propaganda is bad and it's terrible a lot of time now. You're lying. You guarded the border that SYRIZA's socks weren't guarding them. But, come on. Flows have increased. It's not your fault. It's clear. No one blames you for that. But you're guarding the border? Did Evros stop? Are you kidding? All the way to Thessaloniki, everyone laughs when they hear that thing. So you are the victims of the lies that you have said, but the main thing is that this makes management difficult. Your bill, Minister, is ineffective and ineffective. I will not judge it in terms of human rights. You know, it's minimal in terms of human rights - Mr. Kamines I think made a very good approach, like Mr. Psychoyos - and it's a baroque in terms of detention. You are playing in a couple of places, you are accelerating the violation of human rights, which could be done within the flow of difficulties. It's not good, but it might have gotten away with you. You'll see. A fetish detention, prisons everywhere. And you're lying. It's not just that we're against it. You're lying. You've got six thousand booking places in pre-experienced centers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You're accusing us that we didn't want the detention, you found prisoners inside, we built on the islands two pre-retirement centers, you've made an incredible war not to build in Mytilini, not to build in Lero, not to build in Samos. Where are you going to put them? 80% with 90% are families with three and four children. Where are you gonna put them? Why are you lying? This is something that needs to be solved. Listen to me, 'cause I'm running out of time. I can tell you a lot about the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u224	It's over, Mr. Muzala, but because of previous status, I'm giving you a half a minute more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u225	You are not too kibby, Mr President, to forgive me!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u226	They'll do the same to me, Mr. Muzala.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u227	I'm on my way now. You're pulling UNHCR out of appeals. You are wrong, not for humanitarian reasons, but for efficiency reasons. They're the only ones working full time and doing too much work. I had doubts. I was on top all the time and I looked. They're worthy of praise. To double the commissions, to put three committees on every island to work, exclusively, with the world on the island. You're right, we're right. We wanted to, but we didn't. But you won't make it with this bill either. The returns of those who are not entitled to asylum must be increased. That's it. This bill won't make it. And I'll be done with this. Through parliamentarians, the speech is addressed to the Greek people. I would therefore like to say - and I conclude - that the Greek people must not be afraid. We're tired. People are right. They're tired. We've received a huge wave. We've had hardships. Don't let the "Linz Law" suggesting to dominate you. Remember that with solidarity and a project we have been able to face great difficulties. Ten thousand a day, not two hundred a day. One and a half million in eight and a half months with the solidarity of the Greek people. Do not leave the ‘Linz Law’. We are not at risk of Islam. Those who say that - I have said this very little - believe in the concepts of Greece, homeland, culture. Four hundred years of Turkish rulership have not equated us and they will equate us with seventy, eighty thousand Pakistanis and Afghans and Syrians! So believe in our homeland, so believe in our culture, so believe in what you are supposed to be ministering! We minister them, not you. You are the ones who do the wrong thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u228	Mr. Muzala, you've reached eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u229	Do not leave the ‘Linz Law’. The chaos they're trying to impose because they don't make it, it leads you there. It wants management and solidarity and we can do it. Don't listen to Lynch's screams. Minister, you are the Minister of Citizen Protection. You must not let the "Linz Law" apply to our country. And I'm sure you will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u230	To complement Mr Muzala's speech, Minister, I would like to tell you to take care of your health as well. I don't say it difficult, I'm serious. Because Yannis Muzalas and I have suffered exactly the same diseases during our service. That's why we're telling you. Mr Janakopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA, has the floor for twelve minutes. Then Mr Gikas will be given the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the government and the New Democracy as a whole in the refugee - as in many other issues, for example, in the Ambassadors' Agreement, the economy, the functioning of the state and of the public administration, justice - finds itself in an obvious impossibility to manage the consequences of its opposition choices and an extreme reason for destruction and riskyness, which it has adopted in all previous years with the sole aim of reaching power. It is no coincidence that the entire previous period, that is, the period of government of SYRIZA, the refugee flows were supposedly our responsibility. Today they are naturally attributed to geopolitical reasons. First of all, this is positive as recognition, but it also shows the size of the hypocrisy of your policy, your word and your political choices over the past years. However, the issue here is not primarily a question of hypocrisy but is about your real strategy on the refugee issue. And there is no clearer symbol of this strategy than the fact that the bill we are discussing here today is not recommended by a Minister for Migration Policy, it is not even recommended by the Minister for the Interior but by the political chief of the Greek Police. But asylum law is not police law. It is not a question of repression, it is not a matter of policing but respect for the international rules of the Geneva Convention, humanitarian law as a whole. And I think that the strategy of the government is being summarised in the statements of this House, Mr Plumb, that one is how to resolve the refugee and immigration issue, make life inviolable to those who come, with the sole aim of preventing others from coming. And I think that the New Democracy strategy is very clearly summarized in this statement. It is a statement that has been repeated by both governmental and parliamentary representatives of the New Democracy. This is a extreme right-wing biopolitical approach, and I think this concept is going through critical provisions of the bill. It marks a political turn for the New Democracy, but also a coherent political mutation of its executives. You are actually using the codification of existing provisions as a pretext, as a cover, to bring in new regulations that are actually being circumvented by the Geneva Treaty and also critical and key constitutional provisions. Very briefly, because these remarks have been heard in detail by our rapporteur and by Giannis Mousalas before, I will make some points. Firstly, by drawing up a list of safe third countries, there is actually a step forward that creates the risk of circumvention of a basic principle of refugee law, that every asylum application must be examined individually, that there is an ad hoc crisis. It is not enough, in other words, to think that a country is safe to say that the applicant is not entitled to asylum. The crisis must be individualised and we must see, in particular, whether the particular person making the application is entitled or not to be subject to international refugee protection. Attention, then, here. We have the expectation that you are going in an orderly manner to circumvent one of the basic principles, the main pillar on which refugee law, the law of international protection, must operate. Secondly, you are generalizing the detention status for asylum seekers. This is an extreme measure which is currently applicable only as last and, of course, not for minors or for vulnerable persons. Thirdly, you are putting procedural obstacles to the asylum application, and illegally and unconstitutionally and contrary to what the international treaties provide, it is foreseen that in the event of the applicant's non-compliance, even in administrative rules, the application is rejected as manifestly unfounded. There is also the relevant marking of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. Take note of this point because it poses the risk of being judged as unconstitutional and in this way you too, Minister, as well as the entire government. Fourth issue. The concept of susceptibility is unreasonable. Note: With this tightening, you are at risk of being completely congested on the islands, without having a legal argument for transporting refugees or immigrants to the mainland. You are creating the conditions for congestion and absolute chaos in the islands themselves. Your inability has seemed already since the summer when you took Moria - which no one says is the way it should be, it is an extremely difficult situation - with five thousand people and precisely because you are ideological and obsessive in relation to inland transport, you ended up in Moria being thirteen thousand people forty-five days later. You risk finding before you the very consequences of your own arrangements, the way you restrict the scope of the concept of vulnerability. Fifthly, the interviews will now be made by both military and police for asylum applications and not by officials from the Asylum Service. This is a tragic measure. I think you should think about it again. You have time to withdraw this device. Interviews on asylum are nothing simple. It is not something that can be done by anyone and not by officials who are specifically qualified to proceed to such difficult administrative activities and extremely sensitive personal discussions with asylum seekers. Sixth, the right to access care services is restricted. You remember the noise that had then risen and you were trying to tell us that it was not the case, that you did not, with the circular of the Ministry of Labour, for not providing AMKA to immigrants and refugees. Now refuse asylum seekers also to provide AMCAs. And you are again driving the situation into a health crisis. You are doing so by means of this unacceptable regulation, which deprives access to refugee care services. Seventh issue. Priorization. How do you prioritise? You are prioritising first those who consider that, based on the list of safe third countries, they do not appear to have a refugee profile. So what are you going to do? You will create a treaty where those who really deserve refugee protection will wait months and months, years and years, because you think you can increase your refunds. You would not make it for specific legal and administrative reasons, which you know them. But you are consciously choosing to mock the Greek people. All of this and many others are still harmoniously bound up with an extreme political speech that both government officials and MPs adopt, a speech of racist, xenophobic, anti-immigrant and counter-refugee, which actually legitimises the pogroms against refugees and refugees who want to go to school. It is your personal responsibility, Minister, that in Greece 2019 we see pictures of pogroms from local communities, because you have legalised them with your extreme anti-immigrant and anti-refugee rhetoric. And I know very well that when I talk about the legalisation of these tragic incidents, I am not exaggerating. Your MPs are talking about invasion. The Prime Minister himself described the immigrants and refugees as "The Persian invaders". Mr Petsas, with an unacceptable statement, raises even a question of respect for the law of the sea. Here, Minister, you must be clear and upright in your reply. Will you keep that self-evident? Will you respect the law of the sea for research and rescue, which explicitly prohibits re-proposals? What do you mean'saving the sea'? Do you know that when you talk about'sea deterrence', are you directly violating the law of the sea and being in a treaty of total illegality and international liability of the country? I would like to close by saying a few things in response to an unjust criticism that the SYRIZA government has accepted. SYRIZA and the previous government in an extremely difficult treaty and a European correlation not only unfavourable, but outrageous, attempted to manage within the limits of the possible, extremely difficult situation. I would also remind you that the joint declaration was the only solution to a problem that was not created by Greece or by SYRIZA, but by political relatives to the New Democracy, when the Visegrad countries and their right-wing governments chose to close their borders and create inseparable areas in Greece, among other countries. It is therefore precisely the extreme right-wing idealism, precisely right obsession and counter-refugee logic, which comes and creates the conditions for the worsening of the issue not only in Greece but throughout Europe. I would therefore like to tell you that in this difficult context, we have managed to carry over thirty thousand vulnerable to the inland in 2017 and 2018. Also, with regard to the information you mentioned, Minister, about sixty thousand applications for asylum pending, I would like to say that, precisely because of our interventions in the Asylum Service and in the First Reception Service, we are the second country in Europe in number of asylum applications and the fourth in terms of the average time that asylum applications are being processed. Therefore, the fact of this large backlog - if you want - and of the too many accumulated applications is not related to some administrative weakness but is related to the very size of the problem. Also, 12 and a half thousand refugees on SYRIZA's day managed to access primary and secondary education. Let me also say that this relates not only to administrative decrees or legislative interventions but also to a political will on the part of the government to make a policy in the field. It is therefore clear from our side - and I close - that we are not going to consent to the return to policies of Xenon Zeus and the dystopia of 2012-2014. The refugee question is not solved by the de facto refusal to grant international protection to those entitled to it. It is solved by international initiatives, with pressure in Europe to implement common rules for all its countries, but also by political initiatives in the field of the integration and creation of conditions for genuine acceptance of these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u232	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the Overa High School of Achaias. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I have to say that from Ovrea they love the House very much. A few days ago, we had the Ovrea Municipality. Be well! Minister, you have the floor for a minute, I imagine.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u233	Two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u234	Two minutes, but you'll have the closure in the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u235	Okay. You will allow me to reply very briefly to the parliamentary representative, Mr Janakopoulos. I am very ready to publicly acknowledge the efforts made by both Ministers present, who have already become sick, as Mr Vitsas said before.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u236	You can say that loud enough to hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u237	He's saying it out loud.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u238	However, I have heard the words 'right', 'racism' and 'right' fifteen times. On an issue that needs so much consensus, really how can these two coexist? I repeat. Some answers I've given them ten times, but I have to do it again. Why did immigration policy go to the Ministry of Civil Protection? But this is how it works throughout Europe. The chief police officer of Germany, the Ministry of Interior, is also the head of immigration policy. In France, the Minister of the Interior, who is head of the French police, is also the head of immigration policy. The same goes for Spain and all democratic countries. What's different here? Let's get this over with now. Let's get to the bottom of things. Secondly, I would like to say to Mrs Giannakopoulou - I said before, but she was not here - that I never said, but that in Moria everything is fine. I said that they cooperate well and congratulate local society and the officials, the fighters, the fighters, who have such a good relationship with each other and achieve a result that is very difficult. I did not describe the disgrace of Moria because at least I considered it my duty, as Minister, not to describe things that constitute the shame of Europe. Third theme, move to the islands. Mr. Janakopoulou, you will be informed here by the ministers present that a hundred and twenty-seven posts have been found when we came to the government and transferred five thousand posts since then. I'm saying this because you said Moria was filled. Moria is filled, because as Mr Muszalas quite rightly said, there are problems with the inputs sent by our neighbours and that is clean. List of safe countries. Very quickly I will say that all democratic countries, all democratic Europe has safe countries of origin. So we will make a list of safe countries of origin, as a democratic country that we are, so that we can protect people who need protection and, at the same time, return those who do not need it. There is also one issue for those who do not comply with the instructions or orders of the administration. That's right. I heard Mr Vitsa, when he was Minister, one day and then I heard him again - and I was surprised - to say quite rightly that the laws apply to everyone, the same to rights, is done with obligations. If someone is disobedient to the law, there is very simply an acceleration in the process of examining his request. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. As to vulnerability, there was a discovery here, called the post-traumatic stress. This is nowhere in Europe. It was discovered here by doctors and all those who wanted to preach to them all vulnerable. Result: In June 2019 we had five and a half thousand vulnerable in Moria. Uh, is that a politics? Can we continue with these influxes we have? Should we not protect people who really deserve and need protection? Because, Mr Janakopoulou, if we have so many people and we do not really protect the needy, then we are wronging these people and generalising a policy that is wrong in the end and above all the weakest.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u239	But, Minister, you'd say that in your closure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u240	I conclude by declaring that it is a faithful copy of the directive that is in existence in the bill. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u241	Mr Gikas has the floor, and then Mr Ploris, from the New Democracy, both.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, Mr President. I'll change my speech a little. I have just listened very carefully to the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman falling into one, in my view, if I have listened well, maximum force. He called on the Greek Government, the Minister, to tell him whether the Greek warships or the ships of the Port Authority, or whatever, the Greek authorities are going to apply international law of the sea and the rules of rescue investigation. I think it was an unfortunate moment, because we are on camera, we are seen by the Greek people. I will tell you, Mr Janakopoulou, with all due respect, after so many years of serving in the warships, that any government would tell me the opposite - and that is in our customary law, in our DNA - we would do what is also provided for in the research - rescue and, of course, in the process of rescuing any life. So I think that expression was unfortunate. Sure, there must be a deterrent. Preventing means constrainting patrols, knowing that there is a Greek presence on the sea borders, as in Evros, there is cooperation with the opposite coast - I mean with the Turkish coastguard, as it should be - in order to limit these numbers of immigrants - refugees coming. You also accused the New Democracy, the Greek Government of incompetence. In fact, I wonder: were you not the government, which only managed 22% of the Community's resources to absorb it? Why? Aren't you the government that brought OLAF here, the anti-corruption committee looking for where they went or how 1,4 billion was channelled? Weren't you the government who gave us out of the twenty-six centers the twenty-three without command? Aren't you the government, who gave us about seventy thousand asylum applications pending and some fifteen thousand appeals? So it is not right to talk about incompetence when a government receives a chaos and tries to get one order. He is trying to get one order, because migration - refugee is a difficult situation and a country in the size of Greece cannot simply deal with it. So, with this draft law, what the government is trying to do is to incorporate all these directives from the European Union, but from our domestic legal case-law into a law, in order to speed up asylum procedures, so that we can then move on to the procedures for the re-promotion of immigrants as envisaged. It is very important that the provisions of the bill provide for listing with safe countries of origin, as well as procedures for faster re-promotion. Of course, let us not be foolish, the main issue is not Greek. It's European, it's international. In fact, the Greek Government must give particular attention at this level. And it gives too much weight. Just a few days ago, the Prime Minister himself at the last summit raised exactly the question of the reform of the Dublin Treaty. All fora raises the issue of Burden Sharing, that is to say, equal burden-sharing, and it is happy, I would say, that the time just yesterday by the German Minister Verhoften said that we should finally see the question of the reform of the Dublin Treaty. He even proposed a two-level asylum plan. To conclude, because I do not want to abuse time, I would like to say that it is a draft law which helps the national effort to deal with the refugee - immigration. Of course, it is a bill which also has a few issues, Minister, which, in my view, should perhaps be reviewed. I am talking about two articles, but I do not think they have a more general impact on the bill. So I think it helps the national effort, and of course we will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr. Gika. Mr. Ploris from the New Democracy has the floor, followed by Mr. Hetas, Parliamentary Representative from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Tzanakopoulos has put me in a difficult position, as he flatters me by telling me, in fact, that what I have said at times about deterrent policy has affected the policy of this bill. And why am I saying I'm flattered? I say this because this draft law repeats articles of a European directive. So if I have the ability to influence this draft law, it means that I have also had the ability to influence the European Union when it took off these directives, because that is what the Minister is doing today, that is, it comes up and incorporates things that the countries of the European Union have commonly admitted with regard to the immigration issue and is trying to have an adequate legislative framework. We have to say, therefore, because this is certainly an ideological matter. Very good was the debate that had taken place with the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, in response to a question from the President of Mera25 Mr Varoufakis, on how he understood the country's obligations. We say in a clear way that the obligations of the country, on the basis of the Geneva Convention and on the basis of all international treaties, have to do with refugees. There, then, we have a duty. Who are these refugees? We are not saying it again, but it is defined in the circumstances that they should have specific characteristics. And yes to these people, there is a country's obligation to provide what it is to provide and those who take refugee status to have rights until their refugee status is examined, respectively. The Left always says something else. It says that for all, for whatever reason they come, whether climate change is either poverty or the economic situation, there is an obligation for Greece and the European Union to take them. Oh, no. And here's a basic key difference. I have from time to time made statements, which I am not one of the politicians I come to say,'revolve'. When there are false statements, we say that the statements are wrong. But the part of deterrent policy, always under the terms of international law, exists. So what is this deterrent policy so we don't get confused? The one who comes and does not have the characteristics of refugee should know that the European Union will not accept it, because if the solution to the problem is to get all the countries together, instead of three million on the coasts of Asia Minor, you will have thirty or a hundred million, because everyone in an economic difficulty will want to come to Europe. So what's the model? Yes, those who come from the regions or individually have refugee characteristics should have this refugee status. However, those who come for economic reasons should know that they are not welcome in Europe. Here, this bill is trying to make this separation. And it succeeds, because it gives the speed to consider asylum and comes and analyses the question of detention. So, because there's been a lot of talk, which one of the terms disagrees with the detention? Does he argue that it is necessary to identify the elements of identity or origin, that is to say, the person who is lying and does not say where he comes from? That means obliging him, in other words, to say where he comes from, to see if he's a refugee or an immigrant. To what is objective evidence that there is a risk to public security? For the one who says he can get out and I can't find him along the way? For whoever presents a risk to national security? These are the conditions of detention, so that those who come here are forced to comply with the law, as Article 2 of the Geneva Convention says, because we like to talk about international law and conditions, but also to see the obligations that exist. Accordingly, they should be aware that those who do not have the refugee status and operate in a delusion will also be in detention that is not the rule, but it is the exception for those who do not actually cooperate. In this way there is a stimulus, because in the country there will be people who, in fact, have the characteristics of the refugee status and not those who want to blackmail, invoking a refugee status which they do not have, the European Union and Greece to accept. I'm closing, Mr. President. I did not take the floor on staff, while I could, so I will only take half a minute to deal with this House. Because we like to say about contracts and every time some concepts are used, you go out and say about racism and xenophobia, I invite you to read page 11 of the Scientific Committee. He has a copy of Article 79 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union of 2012. I read this out because you tell us that some concepts are not used in Europe: 'For the purposes of paragraph 1 of the European Parliament and of the Council, they take measures concerning (a) entry and residence conditions, (b) determining the rights of third-country nationals, (c) illegal immigration and illegal immigration'. This is Article 79 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The bill is in the direction of protecting refugees and deterrence for those who do not have the refugee status.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u245	Mr. Konstantinos Hetas has the floor for nine minutes, and then Mrs. Makri from New Democracy. Mr. Hetas has nine minutes, because Mr. Velopoulos spoke and it is both dentology and tritology, all together. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u246	Thank you very much, Mr President. So, Mr. Plori, can we say freely a 'lucky immigrant', then? Since we have your own approval, we are on the right track. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, before I enter my own speech and my own notes, because I am several hours in here watching the speeches of all my colleagues, I will start with some comments. I have heard your prototype and all your contributions, Mr Chrysochide. I have noted some facts and you will allow me to refer to them. You have spoken about integrating these people into society, that is, we have now come to have swallowed the pill, we are not talking about how we will be able to prevent the arrival, the invasion of this daily people, we are simply saying how we will incorporate them into society. We have overcome the first problem, Mr Chrysochide, now go to incorporating them. I heard you say about Kerani, about Thessaloniki, about the new structures. You have heard me, with all due respect, as if you were advertising a package of tourists and saying "see what good conditions we have, come and accommodate you."
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u247	It's the services.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u248	Services, indeed. You said you were in a hurry, so the bill will be passed today to stop, as you said, the boats coming, which do not stop. And I ask you, who told you, Mr Chrysochides, that by tomorrow boats will stop coming? Even if this bill is adopted, since we will provide all this to illegal immigrants, there will be even more, because this is the territory of the promise for them. The boats don't stop, Mr. Chrysochide, and you know that very well. And I know, too, at a human level, if I take Chrysochide out of the minister's chair, that you deeply agree with us in too much. The European Union, Mr Chrysochide, did not help us because you said that the European Union was helping us. The European Union is not helping us because it has made Greece a storeroom of souls. She guards her back, has closed her borders and has let us pull the snake out of the hole. The problem is, above all, Greece and beyond. Do you agree with the European directive, Mr Chrysochide? I want to ask the following question to the Greek women and the Greeks who are listening to us, why did you say: What are we doing, you guys, we here? We're not doing anything. We're transposing a directive. That is what the European Union defines, and that is what we do. Well, I have something to say then. Why should we have national governments? There is no reason to have national governments. Let us make an office, have a fax for Europe's orders and act. There is no need for people in the villages that are now listening to us in towns and in their prefectures to vote for representatives. There's no need for half of us in here. Why should we defend the law of the Greek and Greek women who now listens to us? The fax comes from the European Union, we transpose the directive and we do what the European Union of Germany and Merkel tells us. We've heard things here. The Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 spoke of foreign but global babies. We cried. Of course you're an actor. We cried. And what we didn't hear. Mrs. Lykoulis is not here from the Change Movement. On the one hand, we have the ninety Members. And let me say that we want to talk and press, Mr President, the procedures to speak ninety Members, but the Chamber is permanently empty and is not here ninety Members, as we are from the morning waiting for our turn, and with great consistency and respect, we are listening to all our colleagues. So he said about the baby - who exploits the Change Movement and SYRIZA and all the parties the humanitarian part - that we found dead on the beach. Don't we have kids? Aren't we human? Why do you characterize us as being weird and ringing? We're people and we're hurting the same thing, but you know what? It's not only the baby found dead, it's also the immigrants arrested for attempted rape in tourists, Immigration Accidents on OSH buses, there are passengers at risk, the little Myrto who mentioned our colleague, a crime at Philippoppo where two Pakistanis threw the twenty-five-year-old on the cliff. Why don't we just talk about the baby? We do not take advantage of these politically. Don't worry, Mrs. Giannakopoulou, there's this in life. It's not just the baby. They're also the ones that come with us. I was in Brasna last Friday, Mr. Varzopole. That's where we claimed a vote from the Brasnas in the 2nd district of Thessaloniki. And I walked from Thessaloniki - and I'm sorry to talk to you, but because I see you and you're from the second Thessaloniki, it's also Mr. Anastasiades here from Thessaloniki - to Brasnas, to Vagiohori, to the cross. Mr Chrysochoidis - and you know it - fifteen - fifteen, twenty - twenty - twenty - twenty - to allow me to speak, to speak, to speak, not to babys, to Mr Janakopoulos, twenty-fifths to the height of mine and yours, 1,90, and to walk on the streets. They go through Evros and go to Vayochori, Mr Chrysochoidis, a village forty - fifty inhabitants in which people no longer circulate. I went and saw them, and people have taken the axes out of their chests, they can't be released. Nine hundred have entered the structures in which I have walked, Mr Chrysochide. I saw the half-lifes, they took out everything that was a cross. There's a mini-market that has a carpet outside and only Arabic letters out. This is happening in Greece in a village that we destroyed and swallowed. And I went to the other villages. Mr Chrysochide, ladies and gentlemen, I think - and I said this before - today's sitting in plenary as one of the most critical of the memoranda. Maybe it's in the same criticality as the memorials. It can change rapidly, radically and violently, unfortunately, the social fabric of Greece. You condemn Greek and unborn children with the memorials, Mr Chrysochide, which you said you did not read at that time. I am afraid that you have not read this bill, with all due respect, because what is provided for in the bill, an unacceptable draft law, will open every ferry, every pouch of Halos and every box of Pandora and everything like that exists for the Greek people. You sign the end of Greece here today with this draft law. I told you about Brasna. How many of you here who invoke humanity, your sensitivity, did you go to the villages? Did you go to Samos? Did you go to Kavala? Every weekend our President, Mr. Velopoulos, turns around all the structures. Did you go to Corinth? Did you go to Moria, to Bajori?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u249	Didn't we?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u250	I didn't say you didn't all go. I said: 'How many did you go?' Did you go to Brasna? Did you go to Bajori? The whole thing I told you about you? I am not talking here to hear from you, I am speaking here and the Greek Solution, for the Greek people to listen to us. Greece is listening to us, they have sent us here, we will yell at them, and we will defend them, the Greek citizens who have voted for us. Sadly or fortunately for you that is the truth. They don't speak Greek in the villages anymore, in Bajori. Look at it, it's serious. Don't stay here in your offices, in your costumes, in your leather chairs and in your offices outside. There is a major problem in society, and you need to see it. There are complaints I have and have been registered, Mr Chrysochide, for uncontrolled crime. You're talking about security, drug trafficking. They're complaints of the people who live there. You're talking about prostitution and you know that there are these, don't look at me. You're talking about serious health problems. Every night they come in. Is this a global Europe, a world Greece? With the buds inside with hundreds of them, like I told you men twenty, forty and fifty years old? It's uncontrolled now. And what do we give them here now? Instead of saying that we will protect our country, we will shut up, as Cyriacos Velopoulos says, the hole in the boat that we are going to sink, what are we doing? Service, delivery, decongestion, of course, our islands and we will make an unacceptable spread of all these people on the continent. What are we gonna do? So we're going to tear the problem apart all over the country. And we give them money, we give them allowances, we give them shelter, we give them medical care, schools and maintenance of the principle of family equality, as if we were saying: "You are five, six, seven, who are you, come here as well." At the same time, Mr Chrysochoidis, we are here, together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which I had asked - Mr Kumucaco, you remember and I call on your testimony - what you will do with non-governmental organisations. NGOs don't touch them. Why don't you touch them? We're talking about millions of euros. 80% - and you know it very well - it's illegal. If you close the NGOs, you're reducing the problem. But we don't do anything about it. You, too, have said that 70% of those here are African and Afghan. What kind of immigrants are they? What kind of immigrants are they? It's your confession. It's time to deal with reality. Immigration is not solved with wishing or management. It wants political decisions that are possible, essentially, at a political cost, but we must do so, because the price is great and the goal is great, to save our country, to save Greece. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, very briefly. For the 'push back', our President said. Really, listen to something. As long as they come, Mr. Kumucako, the problem won't be solved. You know that, too. I am sure that if you also take off the Minister's title that handles a very difficult situation, you agree with us. Make decisions, close the NGOs. Take these people to places where we will staff them and build sanitary and feeding structures, until the legal and illegals get back away from society. We have spaces and islands in our country, which can be manned and built there what we are building in the mainland. Grab the traffickers, the slaves, and put the life expectancy, never see the sun again. So get rid of those who go in and create unpleasant conditions. That's the only way to solve the problem. All the rest, Mr Kumucako, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, they are not solutions and our Greece this evening, today at midnight with the signing of this bill, these European orders, enters into a very great tour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, Mr. Heta. Mrs. Macrie has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u252	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u253	Minister, you'll talk right after.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u254	I have an answer to a question raised by Mr Hetas in Parliament, which should not be answered. He said that if I or someone else, another member of the government, did not have the ministerial status or the ministerial responsibilities, we would accept the concept of 'push backs', i.e. the relaunches. Let's get something straight...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u255	That's not what I said, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u256	He didn't say that. It's wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u257	He says, Mr. Kumucaco, he didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u258	That's not what I said, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u259	Let's get something straight. Listen. The policy of this government is clear. The Aegean will not be a clear vine, but will not become a wet grave. Clear things.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u260	I didn't say that, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u261	Anyway. You, Mr Heta, say that you did not say that, Mr Kumouchakos said a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u262	But he didn't say that. You're not listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u263	Mr President, please speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u264	Mr Velopoulou, and Mr Heta, it is well known that the Minister, any minister - not Mr Kumucaskos, but myself and anyone - is giving a 'push back' order, is going to prison. I don't know if you know or you don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u265	But he didn't talk about it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u266	What can we do now? Read the law to see it. I do not say that he said so, I say that any Minister or the following minister mandated 'push back', he goes to jail. Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u267	I didn't say that. I want it to be written in the Minutes. Give me the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u268	Tell me. Didn't you say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u269	I didn't say that. I said that if you did not have the Minister's title, I think you would agree on many of what we say. We have never said 'push back', Minister, you have misunderstood. We are all making it clear to the President of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u270	Good, it's pleasant.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u271	I didn't say that in my speech. I'll make it clear and write it down in the Minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u272	All right, Mr. Heta, it's clear from everyone, me, and so on. Mrs Makre from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr President. I am not going to make any comment in the speech by the previous colleague, simply in the fact that he feels that he, his leader, is the one who monopolizes sensitivity and interest. You will allow me to make just one comment. We will not manipulate the structures and services. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the Greeks are a people who unfortunately count on the history of many national tragedies, which is why he stands with unrelenting respect for human suffering and with enormous solidarity with the uprooting of people from their place and the search for a new, safer and peaceful space. After five years of irresponsible mismanagement of the flows, the Greek people now gain a clear understanding of the phenomenon and strongly support the right of refugees. It is difficult, however, to show tolerance to the enlarged wave of immigration affecting the country. The reason is obvious. As long as SYRIZA ruled, Moria was only there for those who hosted. That's all the rulers saw. The humanitarian accounts were not counted by the people of Mytilini and the situation in the camp we learned from the reports by the foreign media. It was forbidden to enter Greek journalists and only the 'convergences' and the NGOs had free access. The rest of us did not need to know exactly who they were conspiring there and what their real quality is. Are they refugees or immigrants? Before the elections, we learned that it is over seven thousand, long before the new waves of this summer. After the elections we learned that there are still around seventy-five thousand asylum applications, most of them from Afghanistan, Pakistan, Africa, migrants and few Syrian refugees. Greece is the first in arrivals of immigrants and refugees in the Mediterranean region. This year it accepted some forty-five thousand six hundred from a total of seven thousand four hundred, a much larger number than the arrivals received by Spain, Italy, Malta and Cyprus cumulatively. According to the UN High Commissioner in September, the highest monthly number of arrivals since 2016 was recorded, ten thousand fifty-eight people. The problem is real, unresolved and has undoubtedly deteriorated because of the ideological incoherence and proverbial inability of SYRIZA. However, the management of the immigration-refugee issue and their choice not to listen, not to react, does not prevent them from now being used as an object of opportunityal opposition speculation. The screams of SYRIZA, to whomever they are addressed, are not convinced. The issue is national and, as it is evolving, it is a threat to Greece and the risk of deadlock is very great. On the other hand, the little solidarity between the European partners in this matter is in no way helping. If the initiative helps, Mr Minister, Mr Zerihofer, the German Interior Minister, that will be very pleasant. It is not enough, therefore, to manage the problem, but a solution is needed. The bill comes to heal the actions of SYRIZA - ANEL, who have dealt with the issue with zero border protection, with inertia and hypocrisy towards human suffering for party benefits, with unprecedented inadequacy and inability to manage the flows, with a mocking of the agony of many of our fellow citizens for the degraded situation in Evros and the islands, by disseminating European funds allocated to the country to deal with the issue, as we all know that OLAF, the European Anti-Fraud Office, is established in the country by investigating a number of cases. So these actions are coming to heal the bill under discussion from the Ministry of Civil Protection at this particular critical time. He comes to heal and solve huge problems that have been inherited from the past. This bill marks the change in policy orientation in legislation and in the day-to-day management of the issue. Border controls are intensified, the asylum procedure is accelerated, the islands are discharged under the responsibility of the State. The proposed draft law seeks serious and absolute respect for fundamental individual rights an important part of the legislative framework governing the provision of international protection. A single coherent legislation shall be introduced and adapted to all the provisions of the European asylum system relating to the recognition and status of third-country nationals or stateless persons as beneficiaries of international protection, the status of refugees or persons entitled to subsidiary protection, the reception of applicants, the procedure for granting and withdrawing the status of international protection, and the procedure for granting legal protection. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will omit to refer to a few points in the bill, so that I do not violate time. I therefore believe that this draft law is a brave political decision, imposed by reality, in accordance with the policy pursued in recent years by all European states, in order to cure and deal seriously and effectively with the issue, to put a definitive end to anarchy and infringibility at the reception stage, but also to speed up the procedures for examining asylum seekers. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] Problems are not solved by fans of inertia. The New Democracy will also manage this difficult issue, convincing the citizens of the need for bold decisions, obviously without being hidden and without being hampered by the selective amnesia of the SYRIZA. Nothing is easy, but it is a battle that must not be lost and will not be lost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, too. Mr. Burnus has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u275	A moment ago, Mr Koumoutsakos tried to answer Mr Heta, but he may eventually have been unconscious to respond to Mr Ploris, who eight years ago told us that border guarding cannot exist if there are no losses and to be understood if there are no dead. Now that I heard him a moment ago, he was very institutionalistic about his tastes a while ago. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, as you did with the Prespecies Agreement and the horrific patriocardia with which you were dominated, so in refugee cultured a dreadful, xenophobic hysteria, sowing poisonous "fake news" and teratologies. Now that the time has come to deal with the reality and the lies that you have moved, your outraged insurmountability and the extreme right-wing ideals with which you are approaching the problems of the country. You have now discovered that the refugee has geopolitical causes, that it is due to the country's geographical location and to the destabilisation of the countries of the Middle East and Africa. Instead of preparing the Greek society to tackle the new phase of the refugee, you are trying to handle the various extreme right-wing authors you elected and the thousands of voters you cheated on. For four months, you left on 8 July in the morning the decongestion program and allowed the islands of the eastern Aegean to be suffocated. The SYRIZA who had the border "patient dogs", left you with an already increased flow to Moria's Cyt on July 7, with five thousand six hundred eighty-one people and on October 30 in the wider area of Mytilini, including the Moria area, there are sixteen thousand eighty-nine refugees and immigrants, fourteen thousand six hundred eighty-four of whom are trying to survive within the Moria Cyt and outside of it. The number of people in Moria's CYT has tripled, and the world is setting up constructions in the "foot", to fit in the adjacent plots. This improvised camp has been called "jungla", such as the corresponding section in the Calle of France that was presented as a global shame. I put it in the Minutes - [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Burnus, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Also in the Minutes, I will present to you from the "jungle" the boxes of electricity with the thousands of cables, which are embedded above the clipping tents and anarchy...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u276	Now that's what this is about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u277	Yeah, 'cause he's outside the CPU. This was created here since July. And if you don't know, don't fly. Here we have tight cables over the tents, which, with the rainfall of the next few days, we will be in danger of having people burnt out of electrocution. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Burnus, presents for the minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In the draft law presented, it revives the extreme right dogma of the Samara era. You think you will prevent refugees and immigrants from coming if you make their lives difficult. You are delusional that people who are suffering, wars and dangers, which in European societies we are even finding it difficult to imagine, will be frightened by detention centres and by the strict conduct of the host authorities of a European state like ours. All you do is trample the country's international obligations and betray the principles and values of a civilised society, to avenge people who are already here. You want to create dozens of structures for precedence, closed detention centres, in the islands and inlands, i.e. you are practically setting up new prisons for foreigners throughout the country. Also, there are provisions in Article 39 to increase as much as possible the population of these closed centres, penalising completely disproportionately the misconduct of poor cooperation with authorities, when you know that because of the functioning of the system, you are demanding refugees things that are impossible. You completely deprive under Article 51(1) minor irregular immigrants of the right to education by violating the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. What will our society really gain from juveniles who stay out of school? Do you not know that schools are the best mechanism for adapting and socializing a child to our country's rules and customs? Ten and a half thousand refugees were put by the SYRIZA government in schools and special reception classes the year that passed us. Aren't you the ones complaining of the supposed inability to adapt these young people to our societies? What, then, will our society gain if you complicate access for asylum seekers to work? Aren't you the ones whimpering about the hard-working refugees, who just receive European Union allowances? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. You are violating international and Union law on refugees, which requires the examination of applications for international protection to be carried out individually and not collectively and on the basis of the country of origin, precisely because one can come from a safe country, but be part of persecuted ethnic minorities or political groups. You say that we do not have a so-called wave of refugees, but only economic migrants. You are not even studying the evidence they give you, because, with the increase in the summer flows, we returned to a refugee arrival profile, after it became known to Syrians living in Turkey that Erdogan wants to evacuate them and take them to the 'dead' Syrian zone. So we returned to refugee profiles with the Afghans first and second of all the Syrians. The most dangerous of course - and I end with this - because the extreme right-wing obsessions are always at the expense of national interests, is that you are turning refugees into immigration and, indeed, to a bilateral problem between Greece and Turkey. But if the problem is a refugee, it is an international problem and, above all, a European problem. If it's immigration, it's our problem. Improve, in other words, the possibilities for sharing the responsibility for management with the other Member States and abstain, as you have shown in the recent Malta agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u278	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u279	It is a bill based on the logic of repression and your election illusion of mass returns to Turkey. I present in the Minutes how many returns have been since 2016, with the return of one of Mytilini for which you chartered a ship with 12,500 euros and was accompanied by forty men of Frontex. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Burnus, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] These are the mass returns you would make to Turkey, when we made a hundred in a quarter and they were indeed few. Finally, combining the repressive logic and the illusion of returns will result in the number of prisoners growing in the closed centers, which will be locked in our country and suffocating into the structures that you will make. You have denounced Moria, but you will fill the country with Morries.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u280	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u281	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u282	I will give you the floor, because you are right, since my colleague referred to you at the beginning of his speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u283	First of all, this term of taste and unbelievable taste is to come out. Who has taste and taste, it's not nice to call himself from the Step of the House. Secondly, I have a lot of answers to that. Ultimately, Mr Colleague, yes, I am responsible for a statement. But I didn't make a Moria where you were raped, and you were the ones who tolerated it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u284	Mr. Kontogeoros from New Democracy has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u285	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law of the Government: 'Towards international protection and other provisions'. In my opinion, it is our obligation, before we reach agreement or disagree with the proposed provisions of this bill, to agree that the seriousness of the problem is not offered for party controversy, for impressions and popularity or for solidarity. It is also necessary to respond wisely to some unrelenting questions that arise, which demonstrate the complexity of the biggest problem facing our country over time. Question one. Are the six East-West everyday flows of people, particularly towards our islands, all refugees from the Syrian war areas or most of them from various Asian and sub-Saharan African countries? Question two. Does our country alone be able to deal with such a large problem, which is constantly developing undeterminedly with undetermined consequences for both the hordes of incoming and its own country and its citizens? Question three. Does anyone believe that Europe is acting in solidarity as it is, or is limited to, any financial aid that the various NGOs, who are escaping like mushrooms, or FRONTEX, who operate as a wheelchair for modern Turkish slaves - traffickers? That's a fourth question. Is there any doubt that refugees and immigrants entering neighbouring Turkey are being used, against their will, as a lever of pressure both on Europe and on our country by the Turkish government? That's a fifth question. Eventually, should there be controlled borders in our country, such as in all civilised countries in the world, or should we send a message to all the unpopulants of the world that we are a'speaking vine'? That's a sixth question. Should asylum procedures be accelerated to those who, in fact, are entitled to it and those who are not refugees and who are illegally entering our country be re-launched in their countries of origin? [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] Seventh and last question. Do some of us here agree, that our country should become the largest refugee and migrant camp throughout the world, without ultimately having the opportunity to offer them help and to meet their needs? Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Dublin II Treaty has in practice proved to be the Treaty which leads to an unequal distribution of asylum seekers in the countries of the first entry of foreigners, forcing Greece, which is the main host country, to face the tsunami of illegal immigration alone, without European and Community solidarity to the extent that this should exist. In short, more and more Asian foreigners in our islands and in the mainland, whose stay will be of a lasting nature, with all that that implies for the future of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed draft law is in the right direction. It is trying to systemify and adapt to a single piece of legislation all the existing provisions, which will regulate all matters relating to the provision of international protection, the status of refugees or those entitled to subsidiary protection, the procedure for withdrawing the status of international protection, the procedure for granting legal protection. It is true that in this effort we are alone in the face of a major problem of global scope, which has huge areas of humanitarian crisis, which highlights the lack of real solidarity from the European Union, the absolute exploitation of these people from Turkey, Greece, which is the first country of reception as an infinite store of souls without the end, with the spread of illegal immigrants throughout its territory, the escalating and uncontrolled flows of illegal immigrants who pretend to be refugees, are caught in our country because of the Dublin II Treaty, where their stay will be of a lasting nature. For these reasons, national understanding and the avoidance of extremes must be ensured. It is also necessary to know the truth that we as a people have been immigrants in many countries in the world. Yes! Illegal immigrants, however, never! The main migration waves of the Greeks became following transnational agreements - Germany, Belgium post-war, etc. - and invitations to cheap workers - America, Australia and other countries - after strict controls, see Ellis Island. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, just a minute. The comparison of our country with the European countries and capitals, London, Paris and others, is unfortunate, since it concerns countries with a population of at least ten times the size of Greece, colonials in the near future, which were lymbling the wealth of their colonies and exploiting their peoples. In our country we have a regular and methodical settlement - we have to understand this - which, together with ageing populations, the birthhood and migration of young people due to a crisis, makes the situation complex, with unforeseen consequences for the immediate future. We must all give particular consideration to what Greece we want and what country we will deliver to the new generations of Greeks. We must leave the labels on xenophobia and racism aside and ensure the independence and freedom of our country. The Government has to deal with the problem with utmost care, directly requiring the revision of the Dublin II Treaty. The Ministry of Public Order must immediately...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u286	Mr. Contogiorg, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u287	Just a minute and I'll be done, Mr. President. The previous one spoke seven and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u288	We won't make comparisons.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u289	Excuse me. He must give immediate priority and believe that the country cannot become an endless hot spot. A few words about small local communities, like my special homeland, Evrytania. There are huge problems for the local population, with mountain relief and incomplete infrastructure. They cannot and must not become part of the problem for the sake of two or three illustrious entrepreneurs. Finally, I transfer to the National Representation that the vast majority of my fellow citizens and institutions of my country, Evrytania, are opposed to every form of settlement with illegal immigrants in our country, while at the same time stating that we do not accept lessons of sensitivity and democracy from anyone, which we have proven in a variety of ways in our historical path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u290	Be well. The truth is that no one has gone, nor refugee nor immigrant, to Evrytania so far. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-five students and students and two teachers attending the fifth High School of Trikalons. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs vulgaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u291	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I note that from the point of view of Officerial Response, particularly, the same violin continues. SYRIZA has the contraction of humanity and everyone else is inhuman. Because there is a lot to be said here and because they were heard out of Ethiopia, and because my colleague, Mr Burnus, is not here - he has said the word 'dead' and because you must not be scratched in the bag of soap, we are not inviting the dead, nor sitting in the balance. However, because Mr. Haritsis, who has escaped from him, has had to be more informed, without going into the matter, I am tabling on the Minutes fully valid, directly from the Athenian Agency, your achievements since 2015 and then the cost of human lives. [[At this point, the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Sophia Vultesis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I say that because it's not humanity to invite everyone to your home and then put them in impoverishment because you can't help them. Nor is it humanism to make general invitations and reach the boats more people than you can rescue. Because that's what you did from 2015 until the time you left. The law is deterrent, nothing else. Only law prevents evil. Because the law is all afraid of him and the law must be implemented. And that's what's happening right now. You've dismantled all the laws. Whatever the law was deterrent, you've dismantled him, asylum, detention, deportation, citizenship. There is nothing that has not been in SYRIZA days and has not been a general invitation. And that's why all this happened. With general invitations, however, problems are not solved. And now I want to go to the main reason why I have taken the floor, because all my colleagues have anyway developed the bill. The law we are voting on today is a deterrent and a dissuasive signal, because no man wants to come to a country in which he can be punished. It's simple. If he knows that the country is a clear vine, that the law on illegal entry will enter and be abolished - because that is what you did with the 2016 law - he goes the message that this is a centre of transit. He can come in, get in, get out, go across the street, etc. But there is a second issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u292	Did you say that to Mr. Kumucaco?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u293	Listen, I have my own opinions. The geostrategics were also in 2011. The war in Syria didn't start now, it started in 2011. And the problem of the Kopanios was in 2013 and 2014. You remember that. Because here you call on the Samara government. Without there ever being any subject, an accident took place and you swore to the Samarus - Venizelos. I gave it to you. I don't want to put people on the balance. You, however, sit down and think about what you did and there was this humanitarian disaster over your days, which you deny and which took place in absolute silence, while you represented the humanists. There is another chapter, the European Union. The European Union must stop this transaction. She can't keep putting herself in the bazaar. Does he want to make a deal with Erdogan about immigrants? He's giving him accession negotiations. He wants to make a deal with Zafe for the name? He's giving him accession negotiations. What's that? I don't understand how that works. There have been dozens of summits, conferences, visits, talks, decisions, statements, overnight meetings of the European Union, the European Council of Ministers, celebrations of new decisions every time, terrible and terrible, which is not the case. A joint statement with Turkey has known since 2016, when the attempted coup was made, that it does not work. None of the decisions taken by the European Union is working. There's nothing that's decided and done. It has accepted the voluntary basis for participation in the refugee question, while one of its directives does not apply a country, immediately the sanctions come. And, of course, it was also that terrible decision of the European Union in June 2018, where they said they had to build transfer platforms in third countries. They did not have time to say it and then the third countries came out on each other to say that they did not agree. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a moment more, Mr President. So the European Union cannot have never sent the asylum experts from Greece who have agreed to it. I hear anyone about Mr. Zehofer. Excuse me. Mr. Zehofer did not agree to a government coalition with Mrs. Merkel on the refugee issue and then, if I remember correctly, Mr. Tsipras - he told us that he was forced - to agree to return the immigrants from Germany to Greece as the first country of entry to make Merkel government with Zehofer. And now all of a sudden Zehofer became a friend of immigrants. Hypocrisy must be stopped and the message must be sent to Europeans as well. Whether they have the European Union, where everyone will be disciplined in solidarity, whether they have decisions that will be respected or close agreements that operate and do not blind or then the problem will be too great for Greece and for the European Union itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u294	Thank you, too. Mrs Mani - Papadimitriou has the floor, followed by Mr Zebbles from New Democracy. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to respect the time to be able to speak as many Members as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u295	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is undeniable that our country has been experiencing a painful reality in recent years with the dimensions of the refugee - immigration issue. Addressing this problem is a priority for the current government and this draft law is the first but decisive step by a series of actions and legislative initiatives to be taken. As Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis also pointed out, the refugee - immigration is a challenge on the basis of which solidarity and humanism are being tested and has managed to put the issue on the agenda at the last summit of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law brings together, until now, the relevant legislation, systemicises and adapts the relevant provisions in a single legislation in contrast to the current legislative framework, with which the phenomenon could not be dealt with effectively. It is also clear from the figures that sixty-seven thousand pending asylum applications, fourteen thousand outstanding refugees. And - if possible! - in the four years of governance of SYRIZA, just a thousand eight hundred sixty-six re-progressions. And yet the Qualified Opposition reacts to the bill. I sincerely wonder, ladies and gentlemen, from the Officerial Response: Are you satisfied with your actions to date, which have created images of shame for our country and, of course, do not reflect the humanism you call upon? Why can we forget, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerial Response, the devastating situation at the northern border, in Idomeni, in the terrible conditions for the people living in the camps, but also the consequences for the economy of the exclusion of the railway line, the image of Moria, the Aegean islands and mainland Greece? There is no doubt that all of this is not an honor to a modern European state! This situation, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be perpetuated by burdening our country and its international image. A stricter but even more just system for granting asylum is therefore introduced by this bill, and only to those who deserve it, while respecting the human rights of the applicants, but without any margin of abuse. So the main aim of the bill, which is clearly required, is to speed up the process of controlling asylum applications and the return procedure for those who are not entitled to asylum. Finally, the appeal-making machine, where the Asylum Service has so far been sharing with the rejection decision and pre-printed documents with the appeal, ceases. By the provisions we are discussing today, the application now presupposes a specific document on the basis of a similar application of the administrative procedure applicable to all cases, whether foreigners or Greeks. It also ceases the phenomenon of thousands of unpaid decisions on applications because it is not possible to identify the applicants. Proceedings can now also be done to a prosecuting lawyer or to an adversary, which is absolutely a legitimate process throughout our jurisprudence. Here I would also like to point out that a number of objections have been raised, particularly from the Qualified Opposition, to points in the bill, such as, for example, the applicant's self-determination. However, it is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to ensure that each applicant is legally identified separately, as is the case for the individual inspection of applications, it is essential to examine in detail, objectively and non-discriminatoryly on the basis of individual examinations. Because the identity of the person asking for asylum from our country, as well as the objections to the composition of the appeal committee, must be investigated. Here you will allow me to say that the formation provided for by three administrative judges provides all the guarantees for the proper, objective and rapid examination of the appeals, taking advantage of the important legal knowledge of the members of the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA Government has proved to be unable to manage effectively the refugee - immigration problem, on the one hand, because it has sent out the wrong message of attractive destination, on the other hand, because it has proved inadequate to establish a proper procedure for identifying and granting asylum to those entering our country. Clearly, the approach must be based on respect for human rights in the interpretation of the Court of Human Rights and Community law. And that is precisely the reason why there is a distinction between those in need of international protection and those who do not fulfil the conditions. We must therefore manage, for the above reasons, as a responsible state, the conceived and uncontrolled establishment of all those who enter our country by laying down specific rules, because that is how every favoured state must operate. And in this very right direction this bill is moving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u296	Thank you for the time too. Mr Zebplis from New Democracy has the floor, and then Mr Koutsoubas from New Democracy. Here, Mr. Zebble, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law, national legislation is in line with Union law and the directives set up by the common European asylum system, while in a balanced and proportionate manner it defines international protection policies, taking into account the increased flow of movement and the capacity of our country for the reception and integration of third-country nationals and stateless persons. We must also point out, because more than one side has been criticised, that the application of Union law is not a card. We do not choose every time whether to apply it or not. The criticism made when Union law is not applied or when it is delayed, is justified. The opposite is unjustified and ignores a basic principle that Europe is a web of rights and obligations. The fundamental principles adopted by this bill are self-evident in the civilised world. Greece is a country with land and sea borders, which has an obligation to protect and safeguard, that it is also a favoured state entity that does not allow those who have no legitimate cause to stay on its territory, and above all that the effective protection of those who are truly entitled to asylum presupposes the existence of a firm and effective rule of law. In short, it is a complex, strict but just legislative framework, which provides for flexible and rapid procedures with inappropriate timetables. At the same time it respects democratic legitimacy and international human rights conditions from the first to the last stage. Today, during the debate in plenary, this draft law has been criticised with arguments of diameter rather than completely different ideological origins. They have heard about intolerance or crimes against the nation, on the one hand, that it is a tough, unscrupulous and restrictive law plan and, on the other, that it is a European inspiration legislation that adopts too liberal concepts. In this sense, one might argue that it is a prudent and moderate piece of legislation, but bold and ambitious, which politically reflects the middle space. However, with the dimensions that the phenomenon has taken place in today, with the asymmetric flows of refugees and migrants, it is clear that ideological searches are excessive luxury. Common sense, in terms of consensus, is needed to tackle a top national issue urgently. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well established that a serious deficit has been presented in the past at a management and organisational level to deal with the refugee - immigration. There was a management slackness, which combined with the pathogens of the Greek administration and the ambiguities of the law allowed the abuse of asylum law to a large extent. It is indicative of the climate of mercifulness and relentlessness that prevailed, of the monumental and misguided verbal wordings, which, however, sent incorrect and dangerous messages on the other side of the bank. However, what we are interested in is the footprint and the result of this policy. I think that the figures which have been heard show the terrible failure: the sixty-eight thousand asylum applications pending and the only one thousand eight hundred third-country nationals return when the Commissioner for Immigration, Mr Avramopoulos, said that at this time they should be thirty-five thousand. So instead of thirty-five thousand returns, we had only a thousand eight hundred. It is clear, therefore, that we had a mechanism that had already been stoved, and that would completely collapse with the slightest new pressure that would have existed. This pressure was not too late to come by working on the migration from the neighbor's leadership. Of course, before we got here, we had both the time and the resources that went beyond EUR 2.2 billion, in order to structure a more reliable and resilient mechanism for granting asylum, refunds and integration. Unfortunately, resources have been dispersed and our country has remained undisturbed. However, it was not only the Greek society that tested the consequences of this mixture of administrative insufficiency and ideology. There have also been corresponding objections internationally by human rights defenders. Since September 2018, the International Committee on Legal Affairs and the European Council on Refugees denounced the systemic imperfections to Greek law, and the practice resulting from unaccompanied children in Greece to be deprived of the right to housing, health and education. In fact, the Committee on Social Rights accepted the complaint, as were similar complaints in the past and the Secretary-General of Amnesty International. There is no doubt that the broad interpretation of vulnerability and the ideological and inappropriate identification of the concept of immigrant and refugee violated the Geneva Authority and the rights of refugees, created stores of souls, vagaries and "Mories". To conclude and not abuse the time, I would like to say that in a world of closed borders, where their dreams of young people and hopes for a better life are dying in frozen containers, our small and poor country has lifted a burden greater than its own. I wish it could cope with and alleviate the injustice and misery involved in the distribution of wealth on three continents. However, what he can certainly do is develop social inclusion policies for immaculate people, demonstrating humanity, solidarity and understanding, these universal virtues that come from ancient Greek society, which gave birth to the sacred institution of question for desperate people who seek refuge to protect themselves from war and violence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u298	Thank you, Mr. Zebble. Before Mr. Koutsoubas goes up to Stepma, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House is organised, thirty-four students and students and three educational attendants from the 5th Trikalon High School (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Koutsoubas has the floor and then Mr Couvelas from New Democracy. Here, Mr. Kutsuba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u299	Ladies and gentlemen, I have followed and participated in the entire committee procedure and, indeed, I have to say that they have heard positive proposals from all sides in the right direction. I also expected this climate of positive intervention to be reflected in the plenary during today's debate. I sincerely regret that I am disappointed, because today you have proved - I say it to the opposition - that the opposition has shown that you are stuck in your left-wing ideal. You want to insist that you maintain the acquis of the Left, of social sensitivity, which I categorically reject. I say it for the first time and for the last time. You can't keep invoking it, because the suspect was born in a cabin, I grew up in two rooms with a kitchen, ten children, ten more people. So I know what refuge means, I know what poverty means and many of you haven't lived it. So this advantage of social sensitivity on the left is no more than that. So I do not intend to convince you today with my intervention to vote on the bill. Although you are of the opinion that legislative intervention is necessary to change the entire existing legal framework, you are insisting on this left-wing idea. You want to show something different. The Greek people will judge us at the end. But I have a duty to convey some thoughts and thoughts that concern me and many, perhaps from us and from the Greek society. The question is this: why have we reached this point? Who's responsible? Are immigrants, refugees? Is the Greek society responsible, the local communities that do not accept them? Are there any third parties responsible? Is the state responsible? Anyone or all of them together? Let's not hide, let's say truths. We are probably all, over time, because both Europe and Greece were unprepared, unprepared to accept this wave of flows. Of course, the situation has been alarming. Europe and Greece are facing a humanitarian crisis and are unable to respond, while indications have been evident from time to time and time has been sufficient to form a coherent response plan. However, Europe's leaders unfortunately - Mrs Vultesis said so before - they were not able, they were late to realize the scale of the problem and then reacted fragmentally. The Greek state was weak and unprepared to deal with the issue, because it had not been prepared accordingly, as it should have been. You don't expect the war to take place to make shelters. The armed forces don't get guns when there's a war, but they're getting ready. And I wonder, without wanting to criticise: In time, our own state - I am not saying New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK - all of us, so that we do not blame third parties and not ourselves, what have we done so long to prepare ourselves? We did nothing and we have to tell the Greek people the truth. That's the way it is. The question, therefore, is that, while we had all these problems in Europe and Greece, SYRIZA also came with the logic of the unguarded borders, with the logic of the outdated vineyard - I had said so in the previous parliamentary term - so that the flows would increase and he, too, could not, weak and unprepared, deal with the problem. So, today, how's the matter? Shouldn't we make an intervention? Is that not necessary? So what does that law do? With the new law in the face of the inefficiency of the old law, a new regulatory framework is to be created, i.e. to lay down the rules with which the state must operate. Aren't we a coordinate state? Should we not have laws and rules with which to function? That's what the new law does. Of course a piece of legislation must have social acceptance, and even though voices have been heard that they are wrong, that the rights of refugees - immigrants or Greeks are not protected, I believe that this law, the transposition of the directive, retains a balance, respecting the rights of Greek citizens, respecting the rights of refugees - migrants who have the right to protection and, above all, respect for international obligations. I will close with this because time is not enough. We therefore have a duty to vote on this piece of legislation, because if we do not vote on it, we will be partners, collaborators and co-responsibles to which the enlargement of this problem will give rise. Ladies and gentlemen, at the last minute I would like you to stand creatively against this bill. It is a necessary legislative intervention. It may not be the perfect law. A law, however, is considered to be perfect, functional or effective in practice and in parliamentary democracies - which is why we have parliamentary democracy - laws are made to change. If we see something's wrong, we're here to change it. But you do have a duty, but you do, as a Greek Parliament, because we have a supreme mission, first of all, to legislate and respect the rights of Greek citizens and to legislate in accordance with international conventions. That's what this law does, which I invite you to vote on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u300	Mr. Kouvellas has the floor and then Mr. Stefanades.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I think we all have the image of the three-year-old refugee, Ailan, on the coast of Turkey in 2015, of becoming a fertilizer for the waves. He was shaking us. He was outraged us. Well, we're not forgetting each other. It could be the child of anyone, just had the misfortune to be born in a place where warfare is still raging today. Of course, war is not discriminatory, it hits everyone independent of age, color, race. We MPs from central Macedonia became witnesses in the first months of 2016 of shame against the human being in the Idomeni camp. I think most of us from there had visited the camp and had a picture. Then the local society there, in the Kilkis region, had endured carterically and supported the situation humanitarianly, but also the whole of central Macedonia. On boats of shame there are still stacking people of all ages, pregnant women, people with disabilities and, unfortunately, many unaccompanied children. About thirty thousand souls were gathered on our islands a month ago, due to the increased flows of the summer season. Their residents there have long exceeded their limits. I heard SYRIZA's rapporteur earlier talking about an international problem and not just bilateral between Turkey and Greece. I'm glad we agree on this. It is certainly an issue that concerns the European Union as a whole, and that is why we need to incorporate directives into our national law within the framework of the common European asylum policy, of course, with full respect for international law and the values of humanism. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] It is a positive development, the view expressed by the German Minister for Home Affairs, that in future the European Union's asylum procedures will be initiated by the host country, which is situated at the European Union's external borders, but will be completed in other countries of Europe, where asylum seekers will eventually be accepted. This initiative obviously follows on from the intervention of Mr Mitsotakis, the Greek Prime Minister, at the European Union Leaders' Summit about ten days ago, where he put on the agenda the need for a new European asylum mechanism based on the European co-responsibility and solidarity of the Member States. Where were we a while ago? We all remember it. We had only made a thousand eight hundred six returns to Turkey for the last four years. It was formally expressed that there were no sea borders in the Aegean Sea. The state handled the issue with ideological syndromes. We had refugee reception services only 40%. We had a legal regime leading to extreme management deadlocks with 85% of immigrants classified in vulnerable groups. We have had accommodation structures under inhuman conditions and an opaque financial management of European funds, which has caused public intervention, and is also in the microscope of the European Anti-Fraud Office. We had a system of functioning non-governmental organisations without clear competences and roles. Today we have about eighty thousand asylum applications and related pending appeals. It is good that the House is aware - and this, as the previous speaker has said, of any party - that the management of the refugee-migrant case is a crucial and major national issue, but it must not lead us to self-isolation. As such, therefore, neither political nor party confrontation. It is a problem that comes from outside and imposes consensus and a common national line to tackle it. Unfortunately, with what happened until recently in our country, the belief that Greece is a state without organization, without structures was built. They just said that it's enough to get there, and then it's easy to stay. This management concept and the pathogens of previous years have led us to the present deadlock. This must be overthrown as soon as possible and we must move on to organised management of the problem in Greece. As the Prime Minister said from the beginning, neither fences nor walls do we want, rules do we want. The bill that is in our crisis today systemifies and codifies the legislative framework and lays down rules that speed up and tighten up the asylum procedure. Of course, it also requires the return of those who are not entitled to asylum. So the fact that rules are imposed and these rules will always be respected with respect for international law and humanity send messages both abroad and within our country. Messages abroad, to the international traffickers' ruthless circuits, that it will no longer be so easy to come and stay in Greece for their victims, in Turkey that it must respect the joint declaration of the European Union - Turkey, in the European Union that we must jointly address the issue, but also within us all citizens, who wonder exactly what happens with people arriving in our country and seeking asylum, to the local communities who are being called to contribute to the needs of addressing this issue and worrying about security and local social cohesion. Local communities are not xenophobic, they are hospitable, but they are asking for answers about the profile of those who will be hosted in Greece, how many will they be, how long they will remain temporarily, how they will be integrated and how we will later manage their fate and future.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u302	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u303	I shall conclude, Mr President. So, let Greek citizens feel that there is a plan and we will deal with the problem, migration and refugee, with speed and seriousness. So I call on all of us to vote on the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u304	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to keep the time. Mr Christodoulos Stefanidis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u305	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are in front of a bill of extremely important importance, in my view, which deals with an issue of enormous importance for the country. You will allow me a special sensitivity, because my prefecture, Samos, has been so affected by the caging of refugees - migrants and others, which is disturbed and at risk of social cohesion. This, of course, applies to Lesvos, Chios and all the islands of the north-eastern Aegean. Ladies and gentlemen, immigration is not today a phenomenon. It's as old as the appearance of the human species, our kind. From the prehistoric, that is, from the appearance of the mindless man, the homo sapiens, in the valleys and in the steppes of Eastern Africa, immigration was initially associated with political, social and other reasons for survival. Our country has experienced immigration and refugee throughout and around the centuries. What can I say? From the stagnant crisis in the 19th century where many people left our homeland asking for asylum in other countries, particularly the West, Asia Minor, the huge immigration to save our relatives from the Turks and, of course, today, where we have the much more painful migration of young people, who are calling for nests and understanding and work and scientific action in the developed countries of the West. As a nation that has experienced similar situations we have memories and know how to show humanity and understanding for refugees and immigrants who cross our sea and land borders. The recognition and protection of persons entitled to international protection is from the ancient humanitarian act. I would remind you what Assyllus says in Iketidis: 'The sacrifices of the man who is pleasing to the beggar, the gods honor as offerings of a God-fearing man'. I stress this in response to the recent debacles - and Mr Chrysochide described them as'shortstones' - of statements made by the Turkish Minister of Foreign Affairs that our country - if possible! - shoots, drowns and repulses migrants. We recognise that immigration is part of humankind's evolution, but in general, appropriate measures must be taken to protect the vital area, the acquis communautaire of each country and our own. We must not forget that each country has its own borders, its own customs, customs, its own written and unwritten laws. Not all asylum seekers are political immigrants. It is worth mentioning that in 2019, more than fifty-three thousand people arrived in Greece. Of these forty - two thousand entered the islands from the sea and the rest from the land. Of course, today the first country in figures of attendance, as we know, is not Syria but Afghanistan. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] This bill, by speeding up, ladies and gentlemen, to Articles 39, 47, 59 and 60, provides for effective respect for asylum seekers, both minors and disabled people, and does not declare in legislation all due respect - as the previous government has done - but with specific measures, in particular, it will protect and control this issue of immigration. As Mr Chrysochidis has explained, I think that this bill can and must be able to deal with this problem. I would also like to refer to Articles 51 and 52 relating to education - which is important - of those applying for asylum, while Article 55 refers to medical care, which is very important too. To date, ladies and gentlemen, the practice has been when we talk about rights for these people to speak only of rights, but now the issue of their obligations towards our country is also raised. Of course, there is a need for a legal framework which excludes the transfer of asylum to those who do not respect the quality of the refugees, and the conditions for international protection, as stated in Part Three of the bill, are laid down. Of course, the bill aims to decongest the islands and protect people from the circuits that exploit them. It also becomes clear that specific rules are in place, which must be respected and respected on each side. For all these reasons, we have to vote on this draft law. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall conclude. I heard the special speaker of the Change Movement this morning, who said we should get used to living with the refugees. Yeah, to get used to living, but all together, all the country, all the Greeks. I would like to say that we must all take this into account and not just the islands of the eastern Aegean, which are affected and which are able to cope with this unprecedented crisis. So I call on you to vote on this bill which is in the right direction and which will solve, we believe, a lot of the problems that have been accumulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u306	Mr Lazaros Tsavdaridis is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u307	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our country is finally going through the era of the realistic treatment of the refugee - immigration problem. After four years of fantasy world, where unscrupulous refugees were "living" on the benches, after four years when the "dog dogs" had become almost the official slogan of the previous SYRIZA government, the new New Democracy government comes to put things on their right foot. Greece is a hospitable country, it is a country that respects the pain, because it has experienced it, it is a country that respects the oppressed, because it is a country that respects human rights, because it has been blunted in its DNA, but it cannot be a country that accepts everyone without control, without any rules, and when anyone who violates self-evidently, unequivocally, justified and proven cause, then he himself misinterpreting the character of the hospitable country, turning it into a country that is exploitable and perforated. After all, our country has paid for all these years and continues to pay the price of the international refugee and immigration crisis. In this context, and European solidarity must be reviewed, as Europe has not yet shown sufficient samples of wisdom to address this complex problem. Where is the fair distribution of refugees in all the Member States? Why is there a European relocation programme that will drastically reduce the number of asylum requests we are called upon to manage? Why does the discussions not go any further on the creation of a European return mechanism? Where is the real confirmation of the acquis communautaire that Greece's borders are Europe's borders? It is true that European solidarity is being used only to finance the countries that form the external borders. In this light, with optimism, we see the new philosophy in the management of the refugee question expressed by German Minister Horst Zehoff, whose central idea is that the European Union's asylum procedures should begin in the countries that are at the external borders of the European Union, but which will be completed in other European Union states. We hope that this plan will be promoted and approved. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy has found a chaotic situation. We were inaugurated by SYRIZA in the years of our previous government for an Amygdaleza, which, compared to the Moria of ten thousand stacked souls, was a five-star hotel. In the four years, SYRIZA became only a thousand seven hundred returns, when only in 2018 the number of asylum seekers in the country reached sixty-seven thousand. An important aspect of our actions to speed up, simplify and tighten up asylum procedures by introducing a bill on international protection, which focuses on the rapid separation of lips from those who do not fulfil the refugee's characteristics and the provision of protection to the first as a supreme humanitarian act, a draft law that reduces the steps to examine applications, corrects the errors of the asylum system implemented by the SYRIZA Government and finally introduces rules which will clarify the rights and obligations of asylum seekers. Of all the extremely important provisions put forward, let me briefly refer to three. Firstly, the detention regime is changing so that thousands of foreigners are not lost by the supervision of the authorities, as was the case with previous government. No more "peace on the squares and benches and then we lose them".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u308	What kind of populism is that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u309	Don't bother, Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u310	I didn't say anything, I didn't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u311	Please. We've heard populism and populism since this morning. Secondly, it is clearly foreseen that the breach of the terms and rules of operation of the reception and identification centres has the effect of stopping the housing and essentially of the applicants from them. No more at the level of the rules. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Thirdly, the definitions of the directive are stricter as regards what constitutes family members, while the concept of vulnerability is stricter, as post-traumatic stress is finally removed as a reason for vulnerability, which, because of the flexibility in interpretation, has led to everyone entering the 'gulls-boilers in Saint Panteleimon'. Ladies and gentlemen, our country is asking us for self-evidently not to go through the difficult canvas alone. Our message of all our local societies is clear: we are hospitable, yes, but we can't stand it any more, our society - especially after years of crisis and especially without rules and limits - other oscillating, other disassembly, other erosion of cohesion and the sense of security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u312	Mr. Cigris is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a very important bill, which will employ Greece for the next few decades. It is a problem that we need to take seriously, because it can be the biggest that our country is receiving at this time. We'll have it with us for years. Greece knows of refugee and immigration. Greece knows from pain and from outsourcing. Today we all know that this is an issue that requires humanity, solidarity and respect for human rights. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware that this is a deeply European issue. It relates first and foremost to Greece and Cyprus, secondly to Malta and Italy, thirdly to Spain and lastly to Portugal, but to all of Europe, because our states have European borders. If, therefore, our European partners do not fall into the problem, if they do not step up border controls, passport visa controls, financial support for the Mediterranean countries and especially the South-East Mediterranean, the problem will in fact remain unresolved. But we have to ask ourselves: does Greece have an immigration policy in recent years? So let's ask a few questions. Do we know how many immigrants are in Greece and who are they, where they work exactly? Do we know how many people are legal and how many illegal? Have we ever done an investigation to see how many can the Greek economy stand? Do we know, in fact, how many we need and what the criteria for legalisation are? We want, for example, some people who come from where, what age, to serve what? All serious states in the world have specific criteria for legalising migrants. But let's see what today's grim situation is. Thousands of asylum applications have been lodged from 2016 to 2019. There are now sixty-eight thousand asylum applications pending. The time for examining the application is two and a half years. If it is decided that you are not a refugee, you are actually circulating somewhere on Greek territory, obviously illegally. Within two and a half months, in July, August and September, the Greek sea borders in the Aegean had spent about two and a half thousand refugees and immigrants. The problem is very serious. We must stop ostriching, put the head in the sand, ignore the consequences of a serious problem, which has serious consequences for public order, social cohesion, public health. There is a basic forensic principle - at least we are teaching it in the first few years - that multiculturalism creates at the same time and increased chances of infringing. The second generation of immigrants, even legal, are a population border. They are neither part of the State of origin nor of the State of integration. That is why we must legalise and incorporate the people we want to welcome, but we must know who they are, who they are, who they are, who they are, who they are and then treated as Greeks while the rest of them returning to their homes. That's what this draft law does. He puts rules for the first time. In essence, that is to say, it speeds up the asylum procedure, which must be provided in at least two, not more than three months. Illegal? Does anyone find that unreasonable? Anyone who finds it unreasonable has to tell us why. Why should a man be troubled and stay in a vacant line between legality and illegality? Why should this man live in terrible conditions? Why should this man suffer from infectious diseases, in danger of causing public health problems? Greece, ladies and gentlemen, and with this I will close - it must finally cease to give the international public the wrong reflex. Greece is really a very hospitable and humanitarian country, but it is also a state favoured and a rule of law which has borders which are guarded. We must finally treat our state as our common home. No one enters our house uncontrollablely, but only after we invite him to host him. We are, in fact, hospitable, but in our home, no-one comes in. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that not only should the governmental majority vote on the bill, but we should all vote on it, because we are today being judged against history. We will either face the migration problem and the refugee problem or that will drown us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u314	The President of the Government, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u315	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, a month ago and in the context of the Prime Minister's time, from this step, both in my prology and in my denology, I described our policy towards the successive waves of unscrupulous and outdated waves that our country unfortunately accepts every day. I had spoken about the need to protect our borders. I had spoken about the necessary separation between refugees and economic migrants. I have obviously spoken about the European dimension of the problem, but I have also spoken of the rules under which those who deserve it will be able to remain in our home country will be incorporated into Greek society under human conditions. And today the draft law which will become the law of the state when this debate is completed is completing the coverage of a great gap. Greece finally acquires a clear, structured and operational asylum system. I would like to congratulate the Minister and the Deputy Minister for this legislative initiative, for the procedure that has been followed, for the fact that many of the comments made in public consultation have been incorporated in the text of the final draft law, which was tabled for the vote in the Greek Parliament. It was precisely the shortcomings and contradictions in this area that have so far allowed mistakes, delays and often images of chaos. Everyone knows what the new government has just received. Thousands of people stacked in the islands, scattered in the mainland, problematic structures - such as Moria - almost seventy thousand asylum applications remain pending and despite the huge waste that OLAF is investigating, only 22% of European funds have been fully exploited. One single element is enough to describe the situation that we have received and the policy of the previous government. Of the tens of thousands of immigrants and refugees who have arrived in our country over the last four and a half years, there have only been a thousand eight hundred six returns to Turkey. I repeat, there have only been a thousand eight hundred six refunds, when nearly seventy thousand asylum applications are currently pending. And the most returns that were made were voluntary returns, which proves in practice that the entire asylum system remained essentially in the form of prolonged paralysis, at the same time signalling that people may come to Greece to stay undetermined, without any control, but also giving Turkey the right not to apply the joint declaration signed with the European Union and also giving Europe the right to strongly criticise us, because we as a European country, a European border state, are not in line with our obligations under the joint declaration signed by the European Union with Turkey since 2016. Everyone also recognises that such a complex problem is more easily addressed at birth than five years after it has been gigantic and that the illusion of the open borders requires an organisation to adapt to the realistic policy of safe borders and that the idealization of immigrants who are'saving', takes boldness and time to become a daily life of a state and of citizens who care about it. But I'm not here to hide behind the weaknesses of others. Migration is already against us, and we have to deal with it both at European and national level. And we will address this despite the found shortcomings of even strong organisations, despite the different opinions and the different voices which are emitted today by the European Union itself, which has not yet reached a definitive policy on this issue, by complicating international solidarity, but also national responsibility and by looking at the hunters of the world and the rights of the Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said at the outset and as many Members of the House have developed, the great extent of the arrangements that we are discussing today is that they are establishing for the first time a solid international protection law, which serves three key principles: Firstly, it codifies five different laws, a presidential decree and dozens of scattered provisions or directives. All of this is in line with Community law and with the judgments of the European Courts. Secondly, it simplifies and shortens the granting of asylum to the real refugees, giving priority to children and families, to which it gives access immediately to health and education. And thirdly, it integrates those who seek protection in a context of respect and cooperation with the Greek authorities. Those who paradoxically claim asylum, but who will offend the country, do not have a place in our country. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In short, it is an integrated response that gives the migration and refugee problem an organised, democratic state. For example, I will only mention a few forecasts that testify to this dual approach. Strong rules that put an end to illegality and arbitrariness but also sensitivity that gives additional rights to the wronged. From now on, each application should be examined within six months instead of nine which have been valid until now, and the decision should be given to the person concerned within ten days instead of twenty. If, in the meantime, the applicant does not cooperate with the authorities - he has left the country without permission - the request will automatically be considered unfounded and will of course be a candidate for departure. That is why the new system will first examine the cases of vulnerable persons and also those with infringemental behaviour, so that their different courses can be carried out in good time. The hospitality of whoever finds himself not applying for protection will also be interrupted immediately after his arrival, whether he has concealed property resources or has violated rules of operation of the structures in which he resides. The general 'traumatic stress' that you all know is difficult to ascertain by doctors and which - to say it quite simply - had become a familial, so that many could invoke it falsely, be regarded as vulnerable and transported in the inland. On the contrary, not only the unaccompanied and vulnerable people are now integrated. We are introducing new provisions in favour of real refugees. Members of the applicant’s family will no longer be considered, except for spouses and children, and their non-married partner. The same will apply to offmarried children and their parents and to those who generally have custody of a minor child. In particular, minors will be introduced at the respective primary and secondary levels. If their parents do not respect this obligation, they will have sanctions. Very soon we will be able to announce a special programme for the five thousand unaccompanied minors, of which unfortunately only a thousand today have the elementary care of an organised structure. After all, all legal refugees will have access to work. A special number will also give them access to care, and after six months they will also be part of special employment programmes to stop Greece from attracting foreigners, who have so far been seeking protection only to find work in another state. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that refugee migration flows are due to deep problems, to war crises, to major economic inequalities. Therefore, large-scale interventions are needed on the basis of international law, respect for the borders of the Treaties, peaceful cooperation between peoples and governments, financial support for countries that today have great difficulty in providing their citizens, their nationals, the prospect of a good life within their borders, and I have no problem repeating this now. But I'm also a realist. I see the difficulties, I recognize the medium-term data. I know very well that the drama of millions of fugitives is being used by some countries as a lever for its own geopolitical purposes, but also that of course there is also a field of action of circuits that trade very expensive and often in vain human hope. Apart from analyses, we must also have a specific action plan in this time and under the circumstances. At European level, it is well known that we are highlighting immigration as the new challenge for our entire continent, claiming common protection of its eastern borders. I therefore very much welcome the new mobility caused by the recent German initiative for a comprehensive review of European asylum policy. After all, I had discussed the Greek positions with the German Minister for the Interior, Mr Zehofer at the Maximos Concert Hall about a month ago. This issue, namely the need for Europe to expressly acquire a common asylum policy, a common policy on the issue of the refugee immigration issue, I put it at the recent summit, and urgently calling for a review of the Dublin system. That is where I put it - as I do in all my public interventions - and all the European countries before their responsibilities. I will repeat what I have also said to the Council that there cannot be countries which enjoy the benefits of the free movement of citizens that the Schengen Convention ensures and at the same time refuse to stubbornly even the minimum sharing of the refugee immigration problem, for reasons that they have to do with the internal balance of certain European governments alone. There can be no European solidarity. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] On the other hand, we are serving three needs. We protect our borders, save lives in the Aegean and land the islands of the eastern Aegean. Already in our seas, we are triggering a modern monitoring system. Port patrols are increased. We offer more thermal cameras and more flexible gears, floating means. Our target remains the same. No lost life in the Aegean and no inflammation of our waters without control. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] At the same time, in cooperation with the Ministry of Interior, the local government and the operational support of the Ministry of National Defence, we promote the organized relief of our islands by transporting refugees to the mainland. In this effort we want the co-operation of the municipalities and local communities. I have said many times that they should not under any circumstances be surprised. Instead, those who are willing to help in this great national effort must be rewarded. We ensure that this spread is carried out with caution in the number of refugees and with priority in families, so that this process can be made more acceptable to local communities. I repeat that they will be strengthened to have the power to assimilate this burden, this burden of emergency hospitality. So this policy is now being complemented by the Asylum Act. It is a law which, among other things, also sends a clear message: So far to those who know that they are not entitled to asylum, they are trying to get in and stay in our country. They will be returning either to Turkey quickly on the basis of the joint declaration or to their homeland, and will lose the money they gave to the disgusting circuits of the traffickers. At the same time, however, the new system also sets limits to the blurred action of certain non-governmental organisations, but also calls on me to say this - some who are consuming for sensitivity from some remote and theoretical observers, to enter the real battle on the ground and at last to take their responsibilities. Ladies and gentlemen, much of the world, unfortunately, lives today in conditions of economic tolerance and often of political freedom. Millions of people are potential applicants for international protection. The solution, however, is not to open the gates of the country wide, to welcome them all. This would condemn the Greeks themselves in denial of the dream but also condemn Greeks in a worse life, and this would in turn close our open-hearted and hospitable society, distort our traditions, ideals, eventually arm the fans of xenophobia and racism, as is unfortunately the case in many European countries. The policy of open borders is the same mistake as the policy of closed borders. We have lived ten years of crisis, yet we have lifted and lifted with dignity and fairness to our shoulders the responsibilities of three continents. Our country is well aware of the refugee situation, which is why it will give refuge to those in danger. But this will be done by rules, coordinates and structured. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Only those who want it can and are entitled to healthy and educated tomorrow can be fertilely incorporated into the national trunk. Because I do not hide from you that as I admire the achievements of Giannis Antetokounbo, so I also delighted in the parade of 28 October the excellent student with origin from Africa, this girl who so proudly kept the blue-white. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm closing up with one truth. Solidarity or it will be manifested by a system or simply there will be only in words and slogans. And that's not a point of view mine. It is the thought of a great hunter, philosopher Hannah Arent, who was persecuted as a Jew from Nazi Germany, fled refugee to France and from there in America, where he lived thirteen years without citizenship. It was her who defended as much the right to have rights as anyone used to say, but she was the same to say that human rights can only be guaranteed in practice by organised political communities. That is exactly what our current legislation defends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u316	The President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Alexis Tsipras, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u317	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin by reminding you of a well-known popular saying: 'Everything here is paid.' That is, of course, the case for what is happening in our lives, but ultimately also the case for what is happening in political life. I just heard the Prime Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis, and I have the feeling that today's accountant must have been one of those of the central left who has hired Maximos. For almost all of your Members, Mr Mitsotakis, who went up to this Stepma, had a very different line from the line you gave, especially as regards your reference to Antetokoumbo and the student from Africa who held the Greek flag and you were very proud, like all of us, of that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u318	It's the same line. You just didn't hear them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u319	Let me talk. We listened very calmly and quietly to the Prime Minister as he was speaking. I feel, therefore, that on an extremely critical issue, a national issue such as the refugee issue, you are facing, I would say enclaved between the rhetoric that you have developed in the run-up to the election - and that most Members, statemen, mayors, representatives of your party in the media and public interventions, continue to develop on the other hand - and on the other hand, in the seriousness of the problem, which you must now manage and provide solutions. As opposition, then, you adopted an extreme rhetoric. You did not hesitate to do so on other issues, crucially, nationally. You did it in the refugee. Your main goal was even on this sensitive issue of riding this wave of extreme right-wing populism that is a big wave and not just Greece. It is a real and a great wave in Europe, it has a very large dimension and it also creates conditions for the representatives of this wave to be close to governments, in important countries such as neighbouring Italy. Of course, in your aim of being able to patronise your ears, attract the sensations and concerns of a world, you used almost all the means, you told consciously lies, that SYRIZA and Ms. Tasia brought them. That's what you were saying. At a time when the biggest refugee crisis since World War II was taking place - on our own platforms - at the same time you talked about left-wing ideas and accused us of not guarding the borders. And when we were talking to you about International Law and the obligation of the country under the law of the sea to rescue vulnerable people at risk and not to relaunch them at risk of being in front of new Pharmaconesia, then you mocked us that we were supposedly stateless and did not recognize the existence of maritime borders. And what you did not say, in order to criticise us even on this sensitive, difficult, complex international issue. Until you promised that from the next election, funny and refugees and immigrants will end, knowing that there is a state in this place at last, they will stop coming. And it didn't last three months since your election and where fifty passed, there came another hundred fifty and two hundred and two hundred fifty! They doubled, the flows were tripled as soon as you were elected. You're obviously not responsible for this, but look at an irony of luck. And where was SYRIZA and Ms. Tasia, who invited all those who were multiplyed? To the opposition. So you could not give such an excuse. So then you discovered that the refugee - and immigration - because you have now said so refugee - immigration, and I will explain why this is a problem, but in any case - what you said that the refugee - immigration, as you have baptized it, is a geopolitical problem. You found out. Congratulations, you're actually welcome, I have to tell you. Of course, for everything you accused us, none of you were found to say even that it was an exaggeration, brother, we were wrong, an apology for all these acrobatics in the previous space. Only the Minister of Civil Protection visited Moria in July and - to his honour at that time - spoke of his positive impression from the fullness of the services in dealing with the refugee. But when he was also in front of the contradictions of your own political choices, he remembered that what he received was not exactly full of services, but "gulug". The question is what you've been doing these three months until the knot reaches the comb. You have shown, in my assessment, how uncomfortable you were to face an existing crisis, an existing international geopolitical problem that is "slashing" in our country and which is an open wound. I could say by saying that on the only issue we didn't leave you, eat from the ready, the only thing you had to prove your readiness and manage crisis, you screwed up. Efficiency has, of course, been shown to fill the state with "blue" poster, you who had made the SYRIZA poster flags. You have also raised the wages for them, of course, because even though they are more, they cannot take the same money as those of the previous ones. Yours are more capable, they're excellent. You have, of course, shown yourself to sharing the financial margin that we have created and to tell us above that it is your work, that from July the economy has recovered in the country. Before, as you were known, you were saying this from this Step, we had a fourth memorandum. And now from this fourth memorandum you have the possibility of giving benefits. So on this, you have shown readiness, you are ready. In the first real difficulty you have shown your perfect tolerability, your terminal inability. So what did you do from juli then? First of all, on the first day, you have decided to dismantle, abolish the Ministry of Migration Policy. You have entrusted the refugee to the Ministry of Civil Protection, making this issue of repression. From the first moment, you have shown the wrong way to see the problem. And you expelled people with huge experience in this matter who had handled crises and knew how to deal with them, obviously because you thought they were not close to your views. You have delayed unacceptably the transport of vulnerable groups from inland islands, which were ready and planned and which had to be carried out in July, not September and October. And so from about eight thousand Moria had when you took over, it's five thousand six hundred. And from five thousand six hundred that Moria had when you took up, today, nearly fifteen thousand people. All five islands when you took over had about fifteen thousand, and today the population touches thirty thousand. There were no asylum seekers in Symi for more than twenty-four hours three and a half - four years of the refugee crisis. The Mayor of Symi came out in a media medium - and I saw him with my eyes - and he had time to say: "Sixteen years I am the Mayor, I have never seen a more incompetent government." Since then, of course, we've never seen him in the channels again. [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] I hope he's okay, at least, man. I'll visit him at the first chance. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Now sloppy and then a feast, you create informal hospitality structures, without guaranteeing decent living conditions. You are transporting refugees to the inland and not only are you preparing for the local population, as we have done by sending executives to explain to people the needs and the timing, but you are adopting - your members today, you have tried to avoid it - they are adopting your executives an extreme - at least those we see in the media, in the channels and in the morning shows - by comparing the invasion of refugees. But you, too, committed to the same mistake, not today, but you suspected. Compare the arrival of refugees with the invasion of the Persians! I don't know what to say anymore. I believe that at least you would be able to understand the difference and the current historical treaty. Of course your choice to turn the refugee into a refugee - immigration - in order to satisfy some extremes or rather a large part of your voters and the public, unfortunately - because I want to be honest not only the extremists in your party - is a wrong choice. And it is a mistaken choice, because today, when we speak almost 80% of cases come from a war zone, they are fleeing from fire and from war. It is also a wrong choice, and you will find it in front of you for a reason, and I would therefore like to warn you. Because if it is immigration and not refugee, do you know what the European partners will tell you when this issue is discussed at a next summit? “ Why ask for relocations, since they are not refugees and are immigrants? Why would you ask for a review of Dublin? Therefore, since they are immigrants, you should consult with their countries of origin and with Turkey and return them.' It is a mistake to make this choice and obviously to satisfy public opinion. So, what do you achieve in this way? All you do, in my view, is create xenophobic reactions in local populations, and then you wonder why local societies are reacting. But why are they listening to you, they've heard you all these years and believed you, so they're reacting. Brasna is your creation, your own. The problem, however, is that you continue to listen between the heavy and difficult reality that requires serious and effective planning, which also requires conflicts both within the country and abroad, and on the other hand between your need to continue mocking the ears of the electorate, the electoral clientele and the public opinion, which you have created in the previous period, who want to listen to the 'false' - let me express you - that you will be vague and hard and put to the border. And continue the fireworks. You will do - you say - massive refugee returns to Turkey. Are you really saying that? How can this be done? And let me make a report here. You will tell me: "Agreement...", yes, this difficult agreement, but this agreement has a significant effect that deaths in the Aegean have been stopped, flows have been reduced, but it also has difficulties. Based on this agreement, how can you do that? And in any case, as you speak of numbers, you blame us for doing just a thousand eight hundred returns. It is true, because it is well known the problems you want to face, I believe you will not manage to deal with this bill. However, in addition to the thousand eight hundred returns there were seventeen thousand voluntary returns to the countries of origin, according to the Immigration International voluntary return programme, there were over ten thousand family reunifications, i.e. over ten thousand people left to reunite with their families in Europe and twenty-two thousand relocations took place. While we were fighting this difficult issue over fifty thousand people left the ground. Will you make 50 000 returns to Turkey in the next 50 years with the Euro-Turkish agreement? I think you may or may not understand that it cannot be done or consciously mocking. They're going to, he says, big boats make artificial waves so small boats can change directions. But who says these things, is that possible? You know that all this is both legally impossible and technically impossible. But I will say that, even if it wasn't, all these supposedly brave things will bring about very difficult situations. I hope that we do not find ourselves in front of them, because if you want to deal with this asymmetrical invasion and threat, you must know that invaders are nothing but afflicted and vulnerable people, families with babies and these nonsenses can only be left in words, because if they don't stay in words and escape and in practice, we will have other accidents and drowning of innocent people, such as this incident we saw a few days before Kos. So I have the feeling that today you are legislating more to satisfy your opinion of the electorate than you hope to achieve something. [[Applause from the SYRIZA Wing]] And to satisfy her, you're making two more incredible simplifications. The first is that it turns refugees into immigrants. The second point is that the refugee issue is being transformed from an international, European, national or even worse into a Greek-Turkish. However, I fear that the worst of all is that you have adopted a sense of setback for national interests against the refugee crisis with the major issues of Greek-Turkish relations, with the Turkish violations in the Aegean Sea, with the violations in the Cyprus exclusive economic zone and the Syrian zone, saying in fact the Government's representative that we should not be too strong and go beyond the thin line on these issues, because it will have an impact on the flows. The government representative said that. We, ladies and gentlemen, did not have three hundred a day in 2015. We had five thousand and eight thousand a day, and we had Europeans closing the borders. It was a real emergency, with the country still bounced in bankruptcy, in which you led it and let us pull the snake out of the hole! The risk of turning into a black box in Europe was real and real. I sincerely hope that the country will never be found again in the face of such danger. And then I remind you that we have sought a solution and we have achieved this Euro-Turkish agreement. Is she excellent? No, it's not excellent. Does he have weaknesses and problems? It has weaknesses and problems, but thanks to it we have drastically reduced the flow and, above all, the deaths of innocent souls in the Aegean Sea. As long as we fought for this agreement, however, I personally had to go three times as Prime Minister of Turkey in six months. Three times in six months I went to Turkey. But I did not even think of making discounts from our national positions in Greek-Turkish and Cypriot in order to take down President Erdogan and our neighbours! Not once! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And the question is, if you think that if you are quieter, if you talk less, if you do not get over - as Mr Petsas said - you say - 'the fine line', then you will have better attitude than Turkey in terms of flows. I don't know if you believe that. If you believe it, you're wrong. In any case, I wonder: In the last three, four months - remember - before the elections a central issue - there were no drills in the Cypriot EEZ - what was it? You blamed us for harming you for having Saturdays then. You're dealing with this, though? Where is the voice of Greece against not the voice but the expansionary cries of Ankara? Where are you all so sensitive to our national themes that you were going to the rallys with the Greek flags for the narrative for the northern neighbours? Where did you all hide now? Where's that sensitivity? Not only did you hide, but instead of shouting about International Law, you cry out your inability to draw a word, your inability to demand the application of the acquis that we inherited you at European Union level, namely the application of European sanctions to Turkey for its illegal conduct in the exclusive economic zone of Cyprus. And then comes Turkey's Foreign Minister, Mr. Tsavosoglu, and makes these unacceptable statements that Greece was supposedly mistreating refugees! Who says that to? In Greece. In Greece, which received the credit of all Europe and the whole world in the 1915 crisis, in Greece, which visited it even by Pope Francis, along with the Ecumenical Patriarch, to give credit for her attitude to refugee! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And you are not in a position to answer him on the substance - you have, of course, responded to him, but not on the substance - obviously not, because it is true what he is saying. It's true, absolutely false, inadmissible. But you are not in a position to answer him on the substance of the matter to you why. Because most of the things that half of the Members of Parliament, Mayors and Members of the New Democracy falsely blame us for, you have suggested from time to time, television stations and public speeches. What have you sometimes said to your own executives? "Conserving our maritime borders from invasion, looking at prevention at sea, and re-promoting is not a bad idea, if necessary. To make them understand..." - said some more extremists - "that their lives in Greece will be more difficult than where they come." That is what they were saying and unfortunately they still say to your Member States and to your Members. How, then, can you contradict these provocative statements? And how can you defend this acquis that we left, having Greece on the right side of history in the biggest refugee crisis since World War II as an example? Of course, I have to tell you that even today you are not able to see the total frame, as your line has always done on the major humanitarian issues. And you referred at some point to'sensitivity professionals'. All right, we're charged with professionals of sensitivity. The Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe, Mrs Miyatovic, who visited our country, also ranks the'sensitivity professionals'? You know what he said today? He said: "I agree with the concerns expressed about the extended possibilities of detaining applicants for international protection, but also to increasing the maximum duration of their detention, on the risk of circumvention of the right of effective recourse by those applicants whose applications are initially rejected, on the use of the concept of'safe third countries' as a means of superficialising asylum applications without a fair and individualised judgement of asylum applications." That's what Mrs. Miyatovots said. SYRIZA doesn't say it. We don't talk about that. But the words that you do not know, such as the word'solidarity', are known to them by International Law. The Geneva Convention is aware of them. That is what the European directives are all about. And, let me tell you, both International Law and the Geneva Convention and European directives are contrary to specific provisions of your bill. We will invite you to reread the general principles of the World Health Organisation, the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, Directive 2013/33 of the European Union. All this provides for access to health services, education and work for asylum seekers. I therefore call on you, Mr Mitsotakis, to respect the rule of law and to include all categories of beneficiaries in the AMKA performance. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Because we're already witnesses of emergency people. who do not have access to medical care and doctors who are now forced to violate this law - in honor of them! - that you made to keep the Hippocrates' oath, but mainly to have their own human conscience clean. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I would therefore ask you to withdraw these provisions. We're witnesses of children who can't register in kindergarten at primary school. Most importantly, however, this will also have a huge impact on public health if they cannot have access to public health care. Improving the opinion of vulnerability. Until the asylum service decision process you are changing, legislating the performance in the most precarious way 'only by registered letter'. What you do not understand, however, in all the things you do, such as, for example, making the reservation up to thirty-six months - will solve the problem? - is that no matter how hard you create, no matter what mountains you put in front of a man who fights for his life, who fights for the life of his child, he will rise the mountains. With right-wing spoonfuls, with nationalist lies and right-wing repression, one cannot deal with the refugee issue. We, ladies and gentlemen, have tried to deal with an issue that goes beyond the country's capacity, goes beyond what we can do as a country. It's huge. I'll be honest with you. We're not excited. But we're relieved. And we are also in our consciences that we have done our best. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We're relieved, because we finally prevented the whole country from becoming a whole country when the borders were closed, a storeroom of human souls. And we are with our consciences, because despite the difficulties, despite our omissions, we have moved within international legality. And we took steps forward. We attributed citizenship to second generation immigrants born in Greece who attend Greek schools. This is recognition of the phenomenon Antetokubo and not to celebrate when it only puts baskets. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We are defending the rights of asylum seekers and we have defended their right to access to work. They joined the Greek schools of 12 and a half thousands of refugees in special reception classes. Tens of kindergartens were created in hospitality centres. We have ensured the uninterrupted access of refugees and immigrants to medical care, granting AMCA to all. And most - and we are proud of this - we have rescued, the Greek Port Authority has saved over four hundred and thirty thousand human souls in the Aegean Sea. That was the great achievement of our efforts to deal with the refugee crisis these years. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We obviously didn't do everything perfectly, and in a country that was still in the memorials. We have, however, managed the problem with our thoughts in human dignity and with our eyes in Europe. And I want to close with this: Your bill except for ideological, the worst thing for you is that it will prove completely ineffective and completely ineffective in relation to the objectives you set yourself. I would ask you to try to understand and take advantage of the European dimension of the refugee issue next time. Follow Europe of solidarity and human rights, not the Europe of nationalism, the extreme right, no matter how attractive. For once in this Chamber you said "we, Orban wins 40% and 50%!" Follow Europe that accepts to assume part of the responsibility for refugee and not the illegitimate Europe of isolated nationalist governments. No Orban, no Salviny can at the end of the day stop the man behind it from burning, sword, war. I really hope, for the sake of our country, that you understand as quickly as possible that the refugee, internal security, European and international relations in the country are not a matter of simple communication management. When you understand this, I hope you can take the necessary steps. Only let's hope it's not too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u320	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u321	How much time would you like, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u322	I will not need much time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u323	The Prime Minister acknowledges that there are too many Members to speak. Thank you, Mr President. The President of the Government, Mr Mitsotakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u324	Mr Tsipras, let me begin with a general report, commenting on a reversal of your speech. If I understand correctly, you told us that anything good has happened in the country in the last three months, that must be credited to you. The upgrading of the economy by S&P is on your side. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] The Greek problem is founded on you. Relief from the 22% reduction of the EVY is believed to be true to you! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The spectacular improvement of the economic climate, the result of the election result and the constant government that the country currently has. Oh, I forgot! You have not been able to do all this, Mr. Tsipras. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You wanted to, but you didn't make it. They would have happened if you'd been able to stay in power a little longer. You'd have done all this and a lot more. I'm sure of it. Only, Mr Tsipras, you did not have to take the country to elections on 7 July. You chose it yourself. You could continue to perform your duties by the end of October. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In this case, I am sure that all of what we have achieved and much more, you would have done it. The more time passes, however, Mr Tsipras, and the more this government performs, it improves the daily lives of the citizens, the greater the need to discover a different opposition account. Because no one believes in you and your message was clearly sent by the Greek people on 7 July. I'm afraid I'm just afraid you haven't noticed yet. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Once again, I told you this and before the elections, you insist on opposing - because as long as you were in the opposition government you did - a fact that exists only in your fantasy world. I understand, Mr Tsipras, that you are disturbed, in particular, when the head of a centre-right party can stand in the Greek Parliament, and proud to say that a girl from Africa lifts the Greek flag and is enthusiastically applauded by the New Democracy Parliamentary Group. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Why do you still see ghosts that exist only in your own fantasy world? I would like to ask, Mr Tsipras, because once again you have spoken about 'the right-wing populism'. Tell me, Mr. Tsipras. Is it extreme right-wing populism, to recognize that the sea has borders and that they must be guarded? You were the one who said the sea had no borders! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is extreme right-wing populism to make the necessary differentiation between those who want to escape - how did you say so? - 'from the fire and the sword', that is to say, that they are entitled to international protection, and those seeking economic refuge in our country? We have personalised examination procedures, whether a request for asylum is well founded and some are approved and some are rejected. Why, Mr. Tsipras, do you insist that you deal with them all in the same way? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is like telling us that all those who enter Greece - all of them without exception - are refugees, when you know very well that the profile of those who are going through the Aegean, has changed dramatically over the years of 2015. And in any case in 2015 - you are very proud of the way you managed the crisis at that time, Mr Tsipras - I would like to remind you that Greece was, in fact, only a single station on a course of hundreds of thousands of refugees and immigrants, who ultimately sought refuge in Europe. They passed through Greece and left. The problem started when Europe closed its borders and I did not see you giving a fight at that time. Because this is the operative cause of the problem, which has actually made Greece a potential storeroom of souls! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Where were you then to give their struggle and convince them, otherwise, that, after they want to show so much solidarity, why not let the borders openly welcome all the devastated people in the world? I was surprised you spoke twenty-nine minutes and you didn't say a word about the bill. It's a question if you just give it a minute. I doubt you've even read it. You did a comprehensive theoretical analysis, where you told us what was good you were doing, but on the substance of the draft law, you did not have any specific criticism. So I ask you directly:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u325	What if he read it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u326	Well, let others judge that. I wanted to ask you directly, Mr Tsipras: are you satisfied with being a sensitive Left, from the fact that in the end, in the process that you followed, no asylum applications were finalised, only if there was a very long period of time? Are we in this way defending the rule of law? Are we responsible for those in need of real protection, real refugees, not to know whether, after all, they can enjoy international protection? So, exactly where does your criticism focus when we come and say 'yes, we want to speed up asylum procedures'? And since you spoke about the struggles you have given the European Councils and about how you were the leader of the internationalisation of the refugee - your own so-called immigration - refugee in our own vocabulary - problem, do you not remember your European partners, Mr Tsipras, at the summits to make you most critical of the fact that we have seventy thousand asylum seekers in our home country, that we have almost seventy thousand asylum seekers whose applications are not finally avenged, until a final decision is taken, and because of this delay and uncertainty, the agreement between Europe and Turkey is actually being jeopardised, why is it quite simply not returns? Didn't you hear that? Did you just hear the things you were attracted to? Because that was the criticism - and I am sorry to say, it was justified - that Europe was exercising in our home country, because the agreement, the declaration of Europe - Turkey, at least as far as the returns were concerned, were not implemented in practice. What we have received and how you were ready to move so many vulnerable people, let me question this very strongly, because we have barely received fifty places for possible relocation to the inland. But we also received something else. We have received a process of holes, a scooter, where everyone invoked vulnerability, in cooperation with various suspected non-governmental organisations, so that it can move inland. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And then, taking advantage of an extremely problematic aspect of the agreement, namely that from the interior they cannot return to Turkey, remain permanently in the country. Didn't you know, Mr. Tsipras, that thing that had been set up with non-governmental organisations, private doctors, who gave blankets - blanket certificates of vulnerability, invoking post-traumatic stress? Did you know all this when you ruled or escaped your attention or hostages of various activists, suspected non-governmental organisations and under the pressure of the left opposition, have you insisted on whistling indifferently? You have no reason, Mr Tsipras, to be proud of your policy on refugee immigration. We have every reason to feel totally entitled to the criticism we have given you. However, I would ask you, Mr Tsipras, to read all the statements made by European officials, at least to read all the statements and not just those that suit you. Because, once again, here in Parliament in your way you are reproducing fast news. As you said, for things I have never said - invasions in connection with the Naval battle of Salamis, totally unscrupulous things that have never been said by me - so you said that the European Commissioner has criticised the government. Only what does the Commissioner say? Watch out. "The situation of migrants, including asylum seakers..." - note, the Commissioner by magic makes the distinction between those who claim protection status and migrants, migrants are immigrants -.... [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] ..................................................................................................................................................................... - Listen, Mr Tsipras - "...over the last twelve months!" As far as I know, we rule three out of twelve months. The rest of you nine ruled. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course, once again, you have made sure to hide it from the Greek Parliament. Why is that so? Because you've just had the pencils down for a long time. You handed us a situation completely messy. You claim that you had a ministry, which was completely non-functional to deal with these issues. Of course, you also inherited this issue in the current government with a roughly flammable bomb. Mr President, I should like to close with one last point, which concerns the external aspect of the refugee question, relations with Turkey and the so-called transformation of this issue into a bilateral Greek-Turkish problem. Mr Tsipras, I have publicly condemned Turkey's violating behaviour, not only in the Aegean but also within the exclusive economic zone of Cyprus. We, too - and you, when you were a government - took the lead in the context of European sanctions, so that Turkey realised that these behaviours cannot be accepted. I publicly condemned Mr Tsavosoglou's unacceptable statement, which leaves appallingly insinuating the way in which we face a difficult situation in the Aegean. And I spoke openly by saying that those who themselves are working on the refugee - immigration problem, are not entitled to swing the finger in Greece and appear today kings of the king. But no, Mr. Tsipras, you more patriots than New Democracy! That's too much! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We have clearly spoken that at European level it is important in managing the refugee - immigration issue that there should be open communication channels with Turkey. We have never made any setbacks, and under no circumstances have I understood that these two issues can in any way be linked. You said, in other words, that we were supposed to make discounts on the national fronts, so that we might turn Turkey down in some way. There is no truth to this and nonetheless something that is not supported by any public position. Stop in this Chamber finally lying and twisting the truth! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And one last thing. You have used a phrase in the dialog of your speech that you are as SYRIZA, as the Left, on the right side of history.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u327	Greece, not SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u328	Look, Mr. Tsipras. This faction has given many struggles and its central policies choices with more important entry to the European family - when some were in the bars and against this option - were ultimately vindicated by history itself. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And in any case, if things were to be destructive in July 2015 as a result of your sad manipulations and your officials, Greece would be on the wrong side of history with your own exclusive fault! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And if it was found this time on the right side of the story, it was because in this Chamber on August 14, 2015, when you had lost your parliamentary majority, this party put above all national interests and put back to save the country! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So, then, be a little careful when making such grand announcements. Let me remind you that there were those days when you deceived the political leaders, telling them that you are not going to be in elections to announce them a week later. In any case, however, I think that is a little well-known. But, Mr Tsipras, on this side, which has the courage and the ability to see the national over the party, please especially from your own side, especially from you who played the crowns - write the fate of the country, lessons are not accepted!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u329	The President of SYRIZA, Mr Tsipras, has requested the floor. I express the hope of understanding in accelerating talks of political leaders, in view of the fact that we are just in number twenty-four to fellow Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u330	As before your hope didn't come true, I'll try to make it reality. I'll at least try not to get far. Mr Mitsotakis, I have heard you start your dentistry by saying: 'But why did you vote?' Who says that? You who, as chief of the opposition officer, have been recorded in modern political history as the second day when he was elected President of his party, and for three and a half years he asked for elections. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And now you're telling us, "Why did you do elections? The results of your own policy would be fruitful over these three months." Six months ago this Step you were still talking about a fourth memorandum. Did you forget? And today you want to convince the Greek people that the course of the Greek economy is due to the fact that you were elected as Prime Minister in July. And since July the heavens have been opened and the country has found bliss! Who are you selling these to? Who are you kidding? But because you cannot even harmonize yourself, I would like to refer you to the preliminary draft of your own budget. For all the great achievements of the SYRIZA government in the Greek economy are described in detail in the draft of your own budget paper and squid, for the debt and for the "safety pillow" and for the financial possibilities that the country has after leaving the memoranda in August 21st, 2018! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I also heard that you were a centre-left leader, a centre-right... I beg your pardon for the 'centre-left'. I'm confusing you. You have Mr. Chrysochoid and I'm confused! I heard you say that you are the leader of the centre right and that you are centre right. Even the leader of a centre-right, who is entitled to speak for both Antetokubo and the immigrants. I wish it were your resignation, Mr. Mitsotakis. I wish that was your political speech. I wish! Just yesterday - just yesterday! - the executive and MP Simopoulos of Thessaloniki went and complained that, in the parade in Thessaloniki, we had the courage to have representatives of the Roma and that we must rethink this because it does not honor the national anniversary to parade children of a lower god in our national anniversaries. Will you denounce it as the leader of the centre-right, not a party flirting with the extreme right? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I am not going to mention, of course, my favorite Mr Voridis, who was even denounced yesterday by your MEP, Mr Kymbouropoulos, for a racist report on disability. Is that your centre-right? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But not to talk about individual cases, I would like to remind you of the following: have you voted for the bill that we brought about citizenship to children born in Greece? Did you vote for it? You didn't vote for it, Mr. Mitsotakis. You didn't vote and you're coming here now and you're enchanting us for Antetokubo. It's hypocrisy what you're doing. At least have the courage of your opinion. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You have accused me once again - with the same extreme perception that you were being prosecuted, so now that you have spoken out of text, you have drifted into the most extreme logic - that 'it is not', he says, 'right-wing populism to tell you that maritime borders must be guarded'. Mr Mitsotakis, we accuse you of one thing, not so much of the fact that you have often come and surprise us, taking more extreme positions from parties that were in this Parliament, such as the People's Orthodox Alert, which you have now inspired almost all of them, are your co-pilots, Vice-Presidents, Ministers of Priorities are, but because what you are saying is inappropriate, they cannot be implemented. What exactly do you say to us today - and you used to say it before - that you did not sit in the chair of counter-population, but do you have the responsibility of managing? How exactly are you going to guard the sea borders? The Law of the Sea will apply it? Will the International Law apply it? What exactly are you going to do? Tell us we know. I spoke of the four hundred thirty thousand rescues that the Greek Port, which is our honor, our pride and our pride that saved four hundred thousand human lives. What exactly are you going to do? And I say this because, unlike your convenience to accuse me of lying, supposedly, and making news, I speak with statements from your representatives, Mr. Petsa, of your Government representative. He said: “More patrols mean more tragic incidents.” And we ask you directly: Why do more patrols mean no more rescues, but do they mean more tragic incidents in the Aegean? That's the dangerous idea you've got. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And, of course, with regard to our critical national issues, listen, Mr Mitsotakis, there is no monopoly of patriotic sensitivity. You cannot come here and show yourself that your party has the monopoly of patriotic sensitivity. And it's unbelievable, because the Left at critical moments in the modern history of this country has always stood at the forefront of the struggle to defend ideals, homeland, freedom, democracy. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And at the end of the day I do not allow you to trade in patriotic sensitivity today, you who have swept away, you have discredited, you have divided the Greek people for the name, to come out after the election and say that you will respect it and honour it by the Prespecies Agreement. Well, then, trade in patriotism and sensitivity to national issues no more. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Yes, we are proud of this agreement because today is the Greek warplanes supervising the airspace of Northern Macedonia and not the Turkish war aircraft, as they would have been, if we had not taken this historic step. We are proud that we defended the patriotic interest as the majority of the House at that time judged. We are proud that even today, where the neighbouring country is in difficulty, we are taking initiatives in favour of stability in the neighbouring country, while the Greek Government at the summit was following Denmark and the Netherlands to deal with the Western Balkans. And we are proud that we see one - one of your MPs coming back, of course - and trying to put your mind on you, not to think and not to be visionary, and not to omit the prospect of your fellow nationalists winning in the neighbouring country, because then I will see your leader begging the leader of VMRO not to be here and reject the agreement that we signed. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But for further information, please address Mrs Bakoyannis, who has urged you to stop thinking about such things. So I was saying that the Government representative, Mr Mitsotakis, spoke about the fact that we should not be too intense and overcoming the fine line on these issues, Turkish violations, Aegean Sea, Cypriot EEZ, because it will have an impact on the flows. No make news or lie. And I'm telling you, it's the wrong idea, it's a harmful national perception. Change the trophy, change the table. You are not going to get Turkey in your hopes to reduce flows if you keep tons of them. And I come to close, because I promised the president. But what can I do, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u331	Mr. Tsipras, your promises to the President are in vain. But I always hope.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u332	I conclude by saying this: Mr Mitsotakis, I said that the country was on the right side of history at the critical times of the refugee crisis. I didn't talk about SYRIZA nor about my resignation, I talked about the country. It was on the right side in a Europe divided, in a Europe divided. You wondered where I was back then. But let me remind you who was closing the border at the time. Where I was, the whole Greek people know. Who was closing the border then? Did Mr. Orban close the border? Did the people who fought for this were your fellow citizens in Austria who threw the Social Democrats Prime Minister to become Mr Kurts Chancellor after that? Who were they who closed the border? Who were those who led to Greece becoming a black box? Obviously, it was neither the Social Democrats nor a single part - to be fair - of the European People's Party. You then accused me of finding them with my political opponent, Mrs. Merkel. That's why I found them. Why Europe should be given a solution and why we put a party interest in the national interest and in July 2015 in the refugee crisis, if you like. We have defied the political cost of refugees and the rescue of the country and the Macedonian, and that is why we are proud. Not because SYRIZA, but why Greece in our years was on the right side of history.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u333	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u334	The Prime Minister has the floor, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u335	I would ask you, Mr Tsipras, to make a statement, if you have it, to the minutes of the House. Now, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u336	I got them. I'll testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u337	Please make the statements. You have them, I imagine, don't you? Why don't you testify?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u338	I'll testify when I want to, not when you want to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u339	Check them out now. I'm waiting! I'm waiting! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You're not going to testify, because you're just lying again. Why didn't Mr. Petchas say that? Put down Mr. Pecha's statements! It doesn't change the houi, Mr. Tsipras. Once a liar always a liar. I do not want to repeat it, but unfortunately I am constantly given the opportunity to do so. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] A brief sentence on the issue of border guarding. Mr. Tsipras, you know, I imagine, what the Maritime Border Surveillance System is. I imagine you recognize that the country must have an overall picture of what is happening at its sea borders. I imagine you know that this is a project that, for four years, on your own days, was cancerous and nothing was done at all. I imagine you know that many of the Port House's thermal cameras when we came to things weren't working. I imagine you know that part of the surveillance of maritime borders is to have a real picture of when boats start from Turkey, so that we can alert the Turkish coastguard to intervene, and if it does not make it possible to ask Turkey for an account why it did not.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u340	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u341	Mr. Vitsa, please. You in particular?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u342	These may sound very simple, but obviously in your ideal world, in your worldview, all these are fine letters. For us, Mr. Tsipras, it's not, understand! Things have changed. The Port will save every man who is at sea, not because he has a legal obligation to do so, but because that is what our morality, all morality, the morality of the Greeks demands. But you made a reference to some implied in an accident, which, unfortunately, cost life to a young child. At 5.00 in the morning, a boat without lights, without a lifesaving, crashed with a port ship. If there was a serious maritime border surveillance system, this accident would have been avoided, Mr Tsipras. That means surveillance of sea borders, even if you cannot understand it! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Obviously - and I am closing with this - I would advise you to continue invoking how well you have done it all. Carry on, because I think you're offering a great service to New Democracy by conflicting with reality, as it at least was reflected in the election results, unless, since I made extensive references to post-traumatic stress, you do not suffer from post-traumatic stress, but from post-traumatic stress.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u343	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u344	Mr President, let's finish this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u345	Only a phrase in relation to the Minutes. Mr. Mitsotakis, I hoped you would not have the level so low today and say, 'Get it in the Minutes now'. So I will bring you the transcript of what your Government representative said and you will either go out publicly and you will undo what you said about make news and lie or lead him to his home. You'll have two choices. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So stop this "caramella" - you in particular! - about lies, about make news. Stop this "caramella"! I'll do it in the next few hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u346	Thank the political leaders. Mr. Maraveyas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u347	Mr President, may I have the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u348	No, Mr. Simopoulos. Believe me, it's not.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u349	Mr President, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u350	Mr. Simopoulos, I told you no. Have a seat! It's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u351	If that's possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u352	Mr. Maraveya, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u353	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government and the draft legislation are continuing on the path it has taken for four months. It continues to seek, as it has done for taxation, property and investment - as it does for immigration - to use common sense to respond to self-evident. And what's the self-evident here? It goes without saying that the international protection of foreigners in Greece must only be about the real beneficiaries. In other words, refugees cannot be economic immigrants. Refugees are not the criminals of ordinary criminal law. Refugees must not be those who refuse to cooperate with the authorities, give false evidence of origin, are infringing and so on. It was not only self-evident but also imperative that the legal structure that was created mainly in SYRIZA, based on the famous philosophy of justice, should be reviewed in different areas of our country. I would remind you of the liberation of foreigners who were found before 2015 in closed facilities with the new minister, Mr. Panoussis, who described the newly built Amydaleza as a concentration camp, the disappearance of foreigners who, after 2015, the next relevant Minister of SYRIZA Mr. Christodoulopoulos did not know where they ended up, but simply that they did not stay in hospitality centres because they preferred to be melted in the squares. And thirdly, the overaccumulation in the Aegean islands of all kinds of new foreigners who soon multiplyed when SYRIZA's theory of non-existence of maritime borders became known. Of course, the New Democracy never said that. Also, the non-discrimination between the different categories, as everyone was now considered vulnerable in one way or another. So it ended up in vulnerable groups more than 85% of immigrants and the most common reason was post-traumatic stress. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] The question therefore arises: Why did SYRIZA, with all the special priorities it had set at the time - and which we all remember - rushed to open in 2015 an additional front? So, why did you almost immediately abolish the current illegal immigration management system created by New Democracy? Apart from your ideas, which undoubtedly played a role at that time, it seems that the political objective of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government was the permanent establishment in Greece of a large group of impoverished people who are willing to remain in the country dependent on the state, people who wanted to operate as a catalyst for the transformation of the public sphere, namely the transformation of both the state and the Greek society. And that's not what we say. It is said by the national strategy for the integration of immigrants from SYRIZA, published in June 2018. Unfortunately, not only were they written, but they were also attempting by a government which had no priority for the citizen but its own ideas. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion is an attempt to apportion all the distortions of the four-and-a-half years that have led to a clear vine in the area of immigration. This extends the right to detain foreigners at all stages of the process and for all persons. Non-compliance with transfer decisions will now lead to either a direct return or an absolute priority examination of their case in order to speed up their removal from the country. A general summary of the deadlines for examining requests to the first and second degrees shall be given. Failure to comply with the conditions of operation of the hosting structures will now lead to interruption of benefits and detention of foreign offenders. In addition, the issue of lists of foreigners with a shorter term of validity is being introduced. Their non-renewal for any reason will lead to a rejection of the substance of the application for international protection status. The vulnerability criteria are limited in order to identify from Greece the same criteria that other States of the European Union use. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I shall conclude. The second degree treatment of foreigners will no longer be completely suspensive and will not automatically give the country the right to remain. In each reservation, time will be measured from the outset and foreigners will therefore not be released because of the cumulative overrun of the eighteenth month. Finally, there is the restriction of access to work with six months' stay under conditions and a right to withdraw access to work in the event of a rejection decision. These, ladies and gentlemen, are some of the obvious contributions made by the new government to the asylum system. This is a common mind approach, which is trying to simplify and achieve the examination of requests for international protection. It is the obvious obligation on the part of the Greek state to operate the rule of law for all. Leaving away from ideologies and party purposes, we legislate self-evidently. I am sure that in this fixed path of flexicurity and development, our government and our homeland will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u354	Mr. Chrysochoid, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u355	Yes, Mr President, some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u356	Here, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u357	I'm only gonna need a few seconds, Mr. President. I am making some legislative improvements to the draft law and I would ask colleagues to share them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u358	I would ask that they be photographed and distributed to the rapporteurs and parliamentary representatives of the parties. The series of speakers is as follows: Mr. Michaelides, Mr. Akiupis, Mr. Tsakalotos and then Mr. Koumoutsaskos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u359	Mr. President, when am I supposed to talk? I'm a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u360	Mr. Bukkorore, after Mr. Kumoutsakou, Mr. Pafilis has asked for the floor. To intercede three - four colleagues and then speak as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u361	You're ignoring us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u362	Parliamentary representatives have no more rights than other Members. I say this for all the Members of Parliament. On the contrary, you must make it easier for the Members to hear. Here, Mr. Michaelides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u363	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point, Mr Andreas Michailides presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today cannot obviously be interpreted by the government's so far samples of writing about the refugee - immigration issue, samples of writing which are disappointing, to use a politically elegant speech. All political declarations, even your opposition speech yourself in the previous period, have collapsed miserably. You were talking about the huge burden that the islands of the eastern Aegean have lifted and you have built the monotonous - of course existential - deprivation of their decongestion. Today on the islands there are thirty-five thousand people. Never since the March 2016 Joint Declaration and then that figure reached this height, not even half of it. As a Member of one of the islands that have lifted the burden of receiving refugees and immigrants, I will of course not say that there were no periods of increased flows and that the Cyts were suffocating, but there was never such a population, nor was living conditions in the Cyts more difficult than they are today. Of course, this is not only due to high flows, but also to the sharp interruption in inland transport that you have implemented since the end of August. You were talking about border guarding and you had made it a blunt one - perverting even - a reversal of Alexis Tsipras's speech on maritime borders. Now you find astounding that the sea borders cannot be sanctified. I would like to inform you that within three days alone, 29 to 31 October, colleagues of the New Democracy, four hundred and seventy people arrived on our island, and this is of course an indicative example, and indeed the last arrival - since I have previously heard the Prime Minister speak of effective border guarding - only four kilometres from the central port of Chios. You strongly accused SYRIZA of inviting or even sending such a signal to refugees and immigrants to come to our country. Of course, you have been forced, at the expense of increased flows, to speak of geopolitical reasons leading to increased population flows. There are, of course, other aspects of your policy to which you are insisting on conservative ideas and logic. You have said by the mouth of the Prime Minister that this is a purely immigration and no refugee issue at all. Let me inform you, Minister, that according to recent information from the Chios Welcome Office, elements of September 2019 - which I will submit - 85% of the people who arrived on the island come from Afghanistan, Syria, Somalia, Palestine, Congo and Iraq. What happens in each of these countries I do not think I need to talk about. They also continue to speak your central executives, such as the North Aegean Regional Commander, for example the other day, for intruders. It seems that Brazilian-type reactions have not yet made you aware of the consequences of the xenophobic subjugation. You announced 10 thousand people returns to Turkey in 2020. Here we are, and we will see. I would point out, however, that, based on official evidence between 2002 and 2015, when you and PASOK ruled, the returns to Turkey on the basis of both the Greek and the Euro-Turkish readmission agreement were about half of what you want to do in a year. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, if you are kind, I would like a minute. I would like to mention - perhaps fragmented - some articles in the bill. I would just like to make one comment, since time is pushing on the vulnerable category and the decongestion of the islands. You seem to remove various cases of vulnerability, such as post-traumatic stress, especially for surviving shipwrecks, with a provision that we have introduced. At the same time, you say nowhere in the bill that vulnerable persons are excluded from the geographical restriction process.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u364	Mr. Michaelides, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u365	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u366	Of course, but hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u367	So how are you going to disintegrate the islands with such predictions? Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude by saying that, although it is not in any way our intention to imitate the catastrophic and ethnicist opposition that New Democracy has experienced in the refugee - immigration,...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u368	Mr. Michaelides, I'm gonna turn off the microphone. Please, get it over with. You can see the timer across the street. Anyone who goes up to Stepma only cares about themselves and does not care about others.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u369	...we're not going to vote on the bill you've brought. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u370	Mr. Capus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u371	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since this morning I would say that it is like us, our resignation, for four and a half years and SYRIZA has been ruling over the last three months, because what I understand and what is said in this Chamber is that they have done well. What did they do and what did they leave? Thousands of eight hundred returns, seventy thousand applications pending, fifteen thousand appeals and what is said is that they left five thousand in Moria. I'll think that's a success. They could have been fewer, since you do not know how many refugees or immigrants there are in Greece, nor do you know where they are and what they are doing. NGO uncontrolled, financial control by the European Union for funds of 1.4 billion. These were the achievements of four and a half years. This bill comes as an obligation to society, to Greek citizens, but also to refugees and immigrants. The picture in the Eastern Aegean is a picture that does not look for a price for Greece. The cry of anguish of counterpopulation for supposedly protection of the devastated is cry in the void. The only structure for protecting refugees and migrants is Moria. It has become a disgrace to Greece and Europe. The government is obliged to legislate to lay rules, always respecting our international obligations. The sensitivity, ladies and gentlemen, of counter-population, is not just your case. Sensitivity exists from all Greeks, from all over society. So, saying 'rules', we mean: We must make it clear that there must be a separation of migrants and refugees. The problem today is mostly migratory. You say it's refugee. We're not gonna fight. You cannot, however, disagree that those who come from war zones and who are proven to be threatening their lives will be able to apply for asylum. It will be handled within a short period of time, abolishing two of the four phases. Those who prove themselves to be from areas that are not warfare, but living conditions are difficult because of economic problems, climatic conditions or anything else, these are economic immigrants. After they have been checked, they should be returned either to the country from which they came or to their country of origin, if they do not always fulfil the conditions. Safe country determines who it is. It exists on the European Union's websites, so we do not need to say anything more. The logic of 'applying and losing' cannot go on. The Greek citizen wants to know who lives next to him, who he meets. In simple terms, be a legitimate resident of this country. At the same time, this has to do with the security of the country itself. The country can't be a clear-cut vine. The country has borders, whether we like them or not, and has land and sea borders and they will be kept. Your inertia, your so-called sensitivity, the fact that you could not predict in 2015 what would happen later, led the country to dangerous situations, giving the impression that here anyone who wants to come and then disappear, without knowing the principles where he went, who he is, what he does. In other words - as we said before - a clear vine. This country doesn't want it - I believe - nobody, nor do you. You incentivised the traffickers unintendedly to speculate after they found open borders. And what was the result? The result was unhappy people to pay the traffickers badly and then Moria was waiting for them. That was the dream of theirs and the sensitivity of ours? This draft law best aligns European and international law with national law and sets out the principles of international and European law clearly and clearly. In addition, it covers certain gaps left by European legislation in the most appropriate way, for example Article 39(5). Apart from the technical issues, however, international developments which are taking place lately in the wider region of the Eastern Mediterranean and the Middle East make this bill more necessary than ever in its substance. In addition, the positive aspects of the bill are the care for minors in terms of education, social assistance and medical care to beneficiaries of international protection on equal terms with Greek citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, we will once again say that immigration and refugee is not a problem for our country. It is a European problem and, as such, it needs to be addressed. In conclusion, I would say that we are at a time and in a geographical area where everything is changing rapidly and this bill offers the necessary adaptability to meet today's needs in this matter. One thing only doesn't change and regrets me this: the obsession of the Officerial Response to insist on proven wrong policies and to back up a bill aimed at real improvement in existing conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u372	Before I call in Stepma Mr. Chakaloto, Mr. Janakopoulos has the floor for a minute. He wants to submit a text in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u373	Thank you very much, Mr President. As Mr Mitsotakis steadfastly provoked Mr Tsipras a moment ago to submit to the Minutes the controversial statements made by Mr Petsa, the Government representative, which concern firstly, the correlation between the Greek-Turkish disputes with the refugee problem, I would like to submit to the Minutes by 31-10-2019 a press release - that is, today - which has been posted on the website of the General Secretariat of Information and Communication, where Mr Petsas clearly states that: the main issue at this moment is that we have to walk on a thin line. What's the thin line? On the one hand, we condemn Turkey's invasion and the Eastern Mediterranean, in particular in the Republic of Cyprus and, on the other, we have a huge humanitarian problem, the war area, refugee - migration flows, which you should try to control in a way that is always for the benefit of the weaker. In other words, we have a very clear set-up on the refugee issue with national issues and Greek-Turkish differences, but also...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u374	Well, not on the substance. For a minute you asked to testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u375	The second statement concerns...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u376	You won't read it. You will be tabling it, otherwise you will be speaking after the two pre-parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u377	The second statement concerns the connection Mr Petsas has made, that with the increase in patrols there will be an increase in tragic incidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u378	Mr. Janakopoulos, don't make me regret giving you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u379	Allow me, because there has been a challenge on the part of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u380	Good. We're done. Put it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u381	I have the impression that Mr. Mitsotakis will be in an extremely difficult position and will have to withdraw...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u382	Mr. Janakopoulos, I'll turn off the microphone. You can't play with me when I'm in the Chair, otherwise you'll expect to talk after the two previous parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u383	We were provoked to testify...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u384	All right, put it down and not go in on the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u385	Excuse me, I don't think I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u386	You're breaking because you've spoken for seventeen minutes already. You're intruding.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u387	Respect the colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u388	All right, Mr. President. I still don't respect colleagues! I'm putting it down for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u389	Check it out. We're done. Mr. Chakatus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u390	Mr. Ministers, do you remember in '89? Remembers the promises of the centre-left and centre-right parties that after the collapse of the Eastern Bloc, neoliberalism returns both to the economy and to the economy and to economics, we will have growth and growth of productivity, which we have not seen, because we have increased disparities and crisis? Do you remember what you were saying about the political side, that we would have a dividend of peace and that wars would be reduced? Thirty years later, we have continuous wars, we have the return of the policy of the great powers that are interacting with protectors, with'strategists' and with gangsters. Are problems solved by Putin and Assad, Trump and Erdogan? Did the Prime Minister have the courage to say about Hannah Ared, that a constituted state has the rights? Is that what you see in the Middle East? Is that what you see in Erdogan and Assad? They'll feed Hannah Ared's bones on the report that the Prime Minister made. There is an invasion in Syria and we are not listening to anything, but Mr Avramopoulos tells us that we should not do anything, because we need to be careful about the same subject Mr Janakopoulos spoke about. Because it's not about the invasions we have for people, for the municipality, for the people! It's to solve the protectors with the great powers. Weren't you those political forces you supported the Blair and Bush warriors? Didn't you go to the meetings? Wasn't your prime ministers who did a tubeki for this situation? That's why the girls in New Philadelphia went out to the streets, because they don't want the militarisation that exists in parades? And now you're incriminating the victims. Victims are incriminating, because you are unconscious. I don't know, Minister, what would you say to a little girl who's from Afghanistan, who's supposed to be not a refugee, but an immigrant, if she told you that they killed in front of his mother, sister and grandmother. How would you deal with this? With what empathy? Do you have to start reading literature or something from art? Should you read the lyrics in the Pagogian songs? Should you read Pat Barker who wrote the book "The Ghost Street" where it explains exactly what stress the post-traumatic is? In 1918, tell your Prime Minister, famous William Rivers, the psychiatrist analyzed what this stress is after World War I. Should you read or see the 'Chaus' project by the Tavian brothers, see how refugees are fleeing, what tragedy and always with violence against women? And that's what you're talking about with numbers without understanding. There is awareness of the fact that you arbitrarily want to distinguish immigrants from refugees with preferences, with doubtful legalisation, without the individualisation that every person is entitled to be heard about the asylum requirement, which is in the Geneva Convention, as if I were not a safe country, I could not be a person who has circumvented my rights as a person with a different political opinion or with a different sexual orientation. In the debate on the budget, ladies and gentlemen, I said that this budget cannot incorporate the medium-sized strata you have said. You have no hegemony - as Macroy did at the moment in Chile - to incorporate and that is why you have the repression. You say that now we must not have a second degree for asylum, not de jure, because you fear the courts, but de facto and you make it almost impossible for you to go to the second degree and make the closed detention centres, the ghetto. Did you go, Mr. Chrysochide to Italy? Did you go to Sicily? Did you ask if this works out there? Are you happy with how Salvini used these centers closed in Sicily? You didn't. Why didn't you? Because effectiveness is not what concerns you. Do you know what it's about you? Making a new account, a new right-wing identities based on law and order in and xenophobia. It has nothing to do with efficiency and it will not be effective. I conclude, Mr President, with a work that I have already mentioned in this Chamber, Mr Spilberger, the 'Sydler List'. I remind you it's a black and white play, which only has a color when it shows a little girl who goes to the holocaust and has a red coat. And why does Spilberg show that? He shows it to identify it. Who's that little girl in the red coat? Is she a Jew? She is a Jewish girl from central Europe, from Thessaloniki, from my mother's school in Ascension who lost all her friends who were Jewish. He's making her human. That's what Spilling does. That's why we're telling you, it won't be just immigrants, it's not just refugees, it'll be Hassan, Fatima and Ilan. Because we'll never forget him. And you look at me ignorantly, because you don't even know who Eilan is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u391	Because I cannot escape my medical property, the Prime Minister has not questioned the medical entity of the post-traumatic shock. The Prime Minister questioned some of my colleagues in medicine who signed post-traumatic shock papers without having to do so. Because you said that this was questioned...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u392	You're not going to comment on me. I'll talk again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u393	The bill quite rightly trusts the doctors of the Public National Health System and other public bodies. You who are in favour of the national health system of the public, I assume that the corresponding article will be voted on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u394	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u395	Mr Tsakalotos, nothing is written in the Minutes because you have taken the floor without giving it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u396	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u397	Right now, no. Therefore, since you think that you can take the floor without the President-in-Office giving you it, nothing is written in the Minutes at all. Good. We're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u398	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u399	You don't have the floor, Mr. Chakaloto. What do you want to comment on? You don't have the floor. Nothing is written in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u400	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u401	Good. I reject your judgment, you have the right to do so, though. No problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u402	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u403	Calm down, Mr. Comrade!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u404	Calm down! Nothing is written in the Minutes. Before giving the Minister the floor, I think that what I shall say unanimously is approved by the House. Yannis Spanius left life today, a great creator. We regret that. I don't know if he had any familiars. If he had, our condolences to his family and his friends. Well, Mr. Kumucako, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u405	Thank you very much, Mr President. I can only give a reply to Mr Tsakalotos who is leaving. Sir, if you'd like to hear...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u406	The President answered!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u407	You'll find out. Apoda, Mr. Chakalote...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u408	That's your democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u409	Leave these to us. That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u410	Mr. President, can we move on?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u411	He says he's out of line. He doesn't swear. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u412	Aposta, Mr. Chakalote, you have once again attempted to do humanitarian lessons on this party, referring to the truly giant movie of Spilberg, the "Sidler List". Don't you understand that this can't be done at the National Representation? Don't you understand how peculiar, stupid it is to have lessons of humanity and sensitivity of social rights from one side to the other? Democratically elected by the people? How foolish is this strategy and what do you think brings you? Can he bring you votes? But, besides that, I will stay on two points of Mr Tsakalotou's speech before we get to the point. He criticized Fukuyama for thirty years. What were Fukuyama's views in 1990 and Mr Tsakalotos came to say that he was wrong to say it and badly said it? What did he really mean? Is that the subject of the conversation? But to go to the other and the second and the most serious. Speaking of these girls in New Halkidona, she gave them a full excuse. Mr. Chakatte, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u413	Personal reports please cut them off. You are addressing this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u414	... a lot of blood has been spilled in this place, and for this symbol, for this flag, to make some hammers and there's some people in the political system who support this hammer. It's a lot of blood, a lot of history and lots of games. Don't do it. You poison Greek society, youth. You are poisoning the political dialogue. At last, come to your senses. Obviously, what I have heard is an inviolable conclusion that post-election stress is not only a top issue in the SYRIZA, but is spreading throughout its entire parliamentary group. That is the only way I can understand what has just been said. So let's go now, actually...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u415	You're a minister, be serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u416	Who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u417	I said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u418	Oh, you? Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u419	Mr Kumucako, you are addressing this House. You are not addressing any colleague who may be yelling.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u420	We have the right to reply, Mr President. Indeed, the country has been experiencing disproportionate migration and refugee flows lately, for reasons outside its borders and ultimately outside its control. These increased flows, however, which system came to find and actually become the stronger ones? What system did they find in the country? Let's see what the old asylum system did. It created tens of thousands of pending asylum applications, minimal returns, essentially refusal to accept the right to those who had it, namely international protection. Because when an application makes two and three years to be examined, you are essentially denying the right to those who have the right to international protection. He finally held them all in Greece. So this system was finally the largest, a giant attraction, not control and deterrent. So this system must not change? Can we continue to go with increased flows, with this deficit, problematic, inefficient system? And obviously, changing the law, with our new law, was not a communal trick, it does not serve communication reasons. And you know why? Because it was part of our programme statements. In other words, once this government has formed itself, it has said that this asylum system will be changed and, indeed, it will be done before the end of the year. So we are doing so a lot earlier, because we are doing what we are saying. So that's the law that comes here. Does anyone object that it was sick, old and ineffective with the seventy-five thousand pending cases, with zero returns, with reception and identification centres over-lossed? Why don't you find out now the over-used centers. In Samos it was 500 percent more people when we got the government and 100% more to Moria. And corresponding numbers were in all the islands and in the mainland. Not in this absolute number, but the situation was chaotic. So we come to change that law. Yeah, we're stricting him. Yeah, he's got to get tighter. International protection must be provided only to those who really deserve it and who have this right in time, not to wait for undetermined time and, essentially, to be impoverished in a vain expectation. It was heard that the law was more stringent than the previous institutional framework. This law seeks to be supportive only of those who really need international protection and not those who want to abuse the asylum system. In this perspective, yes, it is more stringent than the existing institutional framework that is changing. However, at the same time, the law is fully in line with the country's international and European commitments. In this context and in its necessary tightening, yes, we have institutionalised the conditional detention of the applicants. What we have done is to fully incorporate the relevant Article 8 of the directive on reception conditions. We didn't do anything more. In order to be able to detain those persons who are dangerous to national security or public order, or those who have been finally rejected, they shall reinstate a request for asylum only to prevent their removal from the country. Refugees will be dealt with by independent committees, involving three judges, which increases prestige as judicial bodies. Here, then, with three words what this law does. It was necessary to change the previous institutional framework and we are coming to correct this big mistake, the big deficit, the big problem. Normally, if you really are interested in the country being more efficient in managing the refugees, you should have voted in favour of it. You do not do this for purely micro-political and micro-political reasons. Because there's no other reasonable reason. The proposal for a law we are tabling fully implements the philosophy of the government, which is that a successful immigration policy is based on two pillars. Respect for human rights and at the same time the need to defend the country, the state, the sense of the security of citizens and of the country itself. It is what I have sometimes described as democratic rigour in two words. For democracies must be strict and protect themselves, always respecting their worthy core which is respect for human rights. So here's what we're doing. Nothing more. Everything else that has been heard has been an attempt to justify unjustified, dive into the past. However, it is worth making a reference to two very serious issues. You accused the government of bilateralizing immigration and refugee relations with Turkey and doing so bilaterally. Yes, sir. Mr. Vitsats is not here, as is the previous Minister, Mr. Musalas. How many times did they meet bilaterally with their Turkish counterpart? How many? One, two, three, four, five? How many? Why then that wasn't bilateralization and it's ours one? Explain it to us. Well, to make things clear: We will continue to speak with the Turkish Government on this issue, because that is what we have to do. But how? stressing - and we have stressed it on the Turkish side - that this is the Greek-Turkish dimension of a Euro-Turkish agreement. An agreement that has many gaps, many weaknesses, which has been shaped for your time. That's what we received. And there's a lot of gaps that aren't the time to say who they are right now. In particular, it is the geographical limitation, and it will be time to discuss this, to see where the responsibilities are. But you said one more thing. You said that the sea borders eventually cannot be protected. That's what Mr. Tsipras said. There is, but how will you protect it? Is this a place? Is that a political position? Of course, the maritime border is a difficult border, but does not every state owe every democracy that respects itself to do all it can to provide the greatest possible protection at borders and border control? We do, by means of floating means, by new means, using the money that has not been exploited, because that is what we have to do. Because if we do so, then we can tell the Europeans that we are doing our duty and it is your time and your obligation for this European border country, the one that first accepts the bone migration and refugee wave to be supported with solidarity, not in words and statements, but in actions. This pressure will be exerted and we will be able to exercise it even more forcefully, even more convincingly to Europeans if we have done our duty, namely more returns, a firm procedure for examining and granting asylum, protection and control of our borders. And then be sure that our position will be much stronger in the great debate that opens in Europe for the new European Asylum System. We will be present, active, with proposals, with ideas and, above all, having recorded our effectiveness and willingness to monitor in a way that respects human rights the refugee - immigration that is a great challenge for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u421	Mr Pafilis will be speaking as a parliamentary representative. The same goes for Mr. Bukowo. It's six minutes plus three second, so total nine minutes. After Mr Pafile, two colleagues, Mr Mandas and Mr Bogdanos, and then Mr Bukokouros as a parliamentary representative, will follow. And you, Mr. Giannakopoulou, if you would like any intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u422	For a little while, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u423	I too, Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u424	Yes, Mr. Vitsa, you too. Mr. Pachilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u425	There's a humanity competition. Really, what humanism do you talk about in the capitalist system, when less than ten people have wealth as much as 40% of the world's population? What kind of humanism are you talking about bombing the Americans who bomb NATO killing children who destroy countries all over the world? And you who are talking about SYRIZA's humanism, and the New Democracy, of course, consider the agreement to be the greatest success with the people's killers. You consider it a great success and you speak of humanity and mention poems, which you say are left when you say that NATO is good and protects our borders. Shame on you! What humanity, really? What humanism are we talking about in this society of barbarism? So stop at least. As far as migration is concerned, I would like to say that we will not go to historical sources and how migration has evolved in the history of humanity. We are going to ask the hot questions, and here we must answer every political force to the people, because you have made your choices. First, what is the fault and people are torn out of their homes, from their homes, taking the risk of not getting out alive in thousands of miles? Is this war? It is. Who's causing him? Your allies, hypocrites, the European Union and the Americans. Aren't they doing the wars? Mr Tsakalotos said that after 1989 the history of humanity turned. But in 1989 the President of the Coalition and then Commissioner, Mr Damanakis, and the coalition said that the Cold War was over and we enter the highways of peace and progress and we welcome Clinton. And before she finishes her word, Clinton is slaughtering Yugoslavia. So what do you say, really? Is this war? Who are you with? Aren't you all together with those who make the war? And with the European Union you are also with the Americans and with the imperialism and you have called on NATO, which has slaughtered all mankind, to protect the Aegean. So the people sit there to listen and understand. The second issue. Why are they leaving? Why are there rich countries and people leaving to live in Europe, I will say about Europe afterwards, and in other countries? Liastic exploitation by multinationals, big capital and local urban order. You political parties, who are you with? Are you with them, or are you with the people who resist or are you with the peoples and the revolutionary changes that need to be made to pass the wealth in the hands of the workers? You are and you support this barbaric system. Unless you tell us it's an angel society. So the world, because it matters, to draw the conclusions for this whole interest. We do not question anyone's sensitivities, but in politics things are judged by the results and by who you support, who you leave and who you go with. So how are the refugee from the European Union? Here's the hypocrisy. Warfare. Let me begin: Libya, Iraq, Syria. Where there is war, they are involved, and they are the ones intervening with the Americans. So what does the European Union decide? The Dublin II. Here to deal with as political forces. New Democracy, PASOK then, Change Movement today, Coalition: Long live Dublin II. They've all voted in favour and I'll get the Minutes. You're gonna get it like Papadiou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u426	Four, I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u427	I say, the coalition. Look, when you go to a party, inheriters, and in his story. You're not going as a virgin. Let's go down. So I'm saying Dublin II was decisive, because that created...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u428	Dublin III.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u429	What do you want now? Shall we take a lesson? Who voted against? The JRC. And for nationalism, we were accused of that. What we heard: 'You do not see Europe, which embraces the world and which is of peace, and you want to put barriers'. That's the kind of story we heard. What are you going to say to the world today? Are you going to apologize? No, of course, it can't. Third matter. The big problem is out. What did we propose as a Communist Party of Greece? We do not ignore what society we live in. We say to Turkey, which is the five or ten or how many million refugees are, the UN, the European Union, on the spot ID, where everyone wants to go, with the ships and planes, with the money they have and solve it. Is that correct? I think Mr Chrysochoidis will say that he is right too. So tell us what government backed us? What party? Nobody. You were dragged behind the European Union's policy and the disgraceful agreement made by the Europeans and the Germans - and that is, if it were - and they did it by mid-term, not directly. They took the shot, they made the deal, they served it, SYRIZA swallowed it. The New Democracy then criticized and now it says that it will best implement the disgraceful agreement you denounced. Isn't that what happened? Why didn't you support our proposal? What else has your Europe of values and ideas done? What has Germany's BSE, the German Industrial Association? It called for five hundred thousand to absorb them in industry, for the reasons they are known, because Europe needs a workforce. And he took eight hundred thousand, the best, and then he closed the cliff. What has the European Union, which you all worship, done with regard to this German policy, which says: 'Finally'? Nothing. Vizegrad countries. Well, aren't you talking about the European Union and the ideals? Tell us a measure taken by the European Union against the countries of Visegrad which closed the border. What's he got?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u430	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u431	That is correct, but you are with the European Union and you are saying that we are right, but you are going with the others. That's how it's done. So what did the European Union do? Nothing. Did he take any measures? Yes, but the Greek government of SYRIZA knew to kick off the Syrian Embassy. Why did you do that? What are you gonna say? Who were you with? Who forced you? Why would you have to expel the embassy with the agreement of the New Democracy? Why don't you bring her back today? Because you politically support the interventions and war that bring death and destruction. What else is the European Union doing today? Now we're all doing what we don't know. SYRIZA found an opportunity, because the New Democracy actually goes further in a more reactionary direction. You set them up. What's he doing today? Incorporating European directives. It shall, as has been said, incorporate Union law. Do you disagree, do you in SYRIZA? Why did you then adopt the European directives? And did you think that you would bring something better on the basis of this line that the European Union is now giving? You wouldn't bring in.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u432	We'd brought something better.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u433	I don't want to say it with another expression. You'd bring it up sweet while the New Democracy would get it straight away. That's what you'd do and that's what you've been doing for so long. Do not use another expression - it does not make us talk from microphones with such expressions - about exactly what it would be. Incorporating the directives and - now I have heard it - legislate on your electoral clientele. So are you and each other. We have this ping pong and we have two hours to fight Mitsotakis with Tsipras, namely the New Democracy with SYRIZA, for who will best manage a problem that has been created and supported by all the governments. Finally, we are going to ask some questions. Really, we ask you: these circuits, the slave trade, why doesn't anyone mind? It is not today the powerful imperialism, the powerful forces - not to say it like that and you are irritating, but that is where they find out where the leader of ISIS has pierced - that they cannot trace slaves anywhere! To speak honestly, because we know each other. Can they not get caught either in Turkey or here or anywhere, unless there is an accident? Because that's how it works. They can't? Where's your power? No, they can't, they don't, and they're promoting it. And you know something to finish, because I don't want to abuse time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u434	You already abused him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u435	I conclude with this phrase. Our proposals have been tabled by our party's Secretary-General, our rapporteur, Mrs Manolakou, and Maria Konnaka will also speak. We'll tell you something. Whatever strictness you do, Mr Chrysochide - and this is not a personal matter, we have also been classmates - no matter what measures you take will not stop the migration flows. And I'm not just going to say it on political terms, and I'm going to say it on some other terms that some people understand. Who's the one you can't fight? The one who's determined to die. When a man knows he's going to die or cannot live in his place and decides even if he dies to do all this, you can't face him. Whatever laws you want to make, you'll just get worse, and I don't want to talk about the terrible circumstances. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u436	Mr. Mandas has the floor. Mr Bogdanos will then speak, the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy will follow, Mrs Giannakopoulos will make a one-minute speech, followed by Mr. Lodge, who is in the Chamber because Mr. Vitsas asked where he was - Mr. Llovertos, Mr. Davakis and Mr. Vitsas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u437	So, when's my turn?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u438	From what I can see here, Mr. Vitsa, with your party's agreement, you have entered the place of Mr. Musala. You have the number 34. Here, Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u439	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have all witnessed an international and multilateral humanitarian issue, a question with political, social and moral implications. Refugee and immigration are a complex and multidimensional problem. It is a matter that requires delicate, but also decisive manipulations and is a problem that puts our state and our entire society to the test. First and foremost, however, we must put some evidence on the right basis. It's element one, then. The refugee and immigration issue started about 2012 due to the civil war in Syria and quickly received uncontrolled proportions. It is a complex issue, a difficult matter to resolve, but also a matter with a strong religious and political background. At the same time, however, it is also a field of international confrontation: America, Russia, Turkey, Kurds, Europe, almost all the countries of the Middle East, different interests and different agendas conflicting in Syria's territory. Element two. All these years our country has been at the heart of the issue. Greece is a country of entry, a first European station for thousands of people from Syria and Iraq. We are not interested, however, only in them as a country. Again because of position again because of Europe and mainly because of the lack of a targeted policy in recent years, our country has become the first destination target for residents and other countries: Afghanistan, Pakistan, Somalia, Congo, non-war areas, economic migrants trying to enter Europe illegally and using Greece as a way through. And so, while the tensions in Syria are falling, people's flows are rising. The statistics are vague in this respect. In 2015 and 2016 75% of those entering Greece were Syrians. Today is about 20%. And about 50% are Afghans and Pakistanis. What does all this mean? It's simple, the 2015 refugee became an immigrant of 2019. Some, of course, may wonder at this point: why not be a host country? Why don't we solve the demographic problem? We used to be immigrants, weren't we? Well, I think we should make it clear once and for all. We are not a country hosting economic migrants, because we cannot be, nor can we become, for many and complex reasons. Element third. What has the previous government done for all this? What left us as a deposit? Unfortunately, the responsibilities are heavy and do not fit into discussion. In summary only: foreign policy, confusing messages, who forgets that 'the sea has no borders', allegedly humanism, avoiding taking up a responsible position, management failure. Dear, gentlemen of SYRIZA, you have wasted time and money. You have organised nothing properly, you have wasted resources and you have played it with sad humanists. What about everyone's worst? You didn't even have a specific policy! Everything was in the'seeing and doing' level, making the day, the week, the month. The results are, of course, visible to everyone: seventy thousand applications for asylum pending, only a thousand eight hundred returns to Turkey over the last four years. And so, you made our country as the number one destination for the traffickers' circuits, which, as you know, are always looking the easiest way to do their job. Element four and last. Where does all this leave us? What are we doing from now on? Let us be clear, ladies and gentlemen. In the blur of SYRIZA, we respond clearly. We want as few as possible to leave our countries and we want those of them who come and stay and do not have the right to stay, to stay here as little as possible. And this very diplomat serves today's bill. So, what's he doing? The first and foremost priority is the simplification and acceleration of granting asylum. Now within a quarter there will be a final decision. Secondly, it puts an end to the ambiguity and chaos that is the main obstacle to the poor to date. Everyone will now know how the system works, what the rights are, what the obligations are. Thirdly, the compliance and cooperation of asylum seekers with the national authorities is prerequisite. Let us also be clear about this: do not comply equal to no desire for protection. So a return procedure. Fourthly, refugees are finally separated from immigrants. Refugees follow the asylum procedure and in three months their case is closed. Immigrants shall be transferred to closed pre-regulatory centres and re-propelled. And fifthly, we will now have a clear record and certification of non-governmental organisations. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you all to be realistic. Migration is a difficult and complex issue, which will continue and will likely be intensified. In the interior, a very careful management policy is needed abroad and a good communication policy is needed. Today's bill achieves these exact goals. It is the government's duty to give this two-front fight, protecting human rights, guaranteeing the safety of citizens, without false tears from the Step forward of the House, against the monopoly of humanism which the Anti-Population attempts, respecting only our obligations as civilised rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u440	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-three students and students and four educational attendants from the 19th Municipal School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Bogdanos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u441	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to express my pride, my pride and my satisfaction at the recent decision of the Ice Arena not to extradite to the Islamic Republic of Iran, Mrs Sarare Kandemi, who would otherwise be in danger of death and her daughter would be forced to marry her father before she closed her nine years. This is a decision that just highlights the supremacy of our liberal democratic culture over all kinds and shades of totalitarian regimes and underlines the spirit of King Ferraios's order: "The Greeks accept all the wrongful and exiled foreigners from their homeland because of freedom". The draft law, which we are debating today, therefore, allows for the execution of this sacred task of granting asylum to the real refugee and together safeguarding the legitimacy, public order and social cohesion in Greek democracy. The clear and explicit distinction between the refugee, that is, the one his life is in danger and the one who is merely seeking better luck, is absolutely necessary. It is, I recall, a consistent and undeniable practice of international law and it is also our obligation to our partners in the European Union. And at this point I would like to emphasise emphatically a great qualitative difference between the current government and the previous one. We are never going to call racists or extremists or fascists Greeks who reasonably worry that, without planning, without reasonable migration flows, mainly of Asian and African Muslim populations will exacerbate existing problems or create new ones. I would remind you here that those who easily make designations, those who lift up the eyebrow or finger, are the same, who left EUR 1.4 billion untapped, indifferent to the effects on the local population, on the islands, towns and villages of the hinterland, by pouring together refugees and immigrants in inhumane conditions, without any provision for accommodation, care, education, health, security. It is worse for those who, perhaps, want the worthy and demographic exhibition of Western societies, because where economic Marxism failed, they want to impose cultural ones. We will never say that our seas have no borders. We will never accept lionisms that we will fill Europe with jihadists or immigrants. Nor will we mock Greek and foreign partners, speaking of methadone immigrants, ranking 85% of immigrants in vulnerable groups, moving just a thousand eight hundred six returns within three years or leaving seventy thousand asylum applications for the next government. With this draft law, therefore, a clear, functional institutional framework is being created that speeds up the asylum procedure, facilitates those who will be called upon to implement the law, closes wicked loopholes and provides clear and clear information to those who are thinking of illegally entering the country, that we will not make it easier for them to invade or stay here. This is an institutional framework that enables the islands and temporary residence centres to be effectively decommissioned and deprived of traffickers and traffickers of human lives, and dark in terms of action and financing, non-governmental organisations to "deal" on human lives. It is an institutional framework that will enable us to demand with good demands for Europeans finally to assume their responsibilities. I would like to highlight the forecasts for Greek language learning, for the obligations, rights and privileges involved in the even temporary conditions of hospitality in Greece, because - as we must remember - the Greek nation is a community of origin, but above all it is a community of culture. Some of them are staying. They should be organically and productively integrated in our societies. Greece is a country of Orthodox Christian tradition and liberal legacy. It is not a country for drones, allowance hunters, or for fans of Islamic law. I close with the following: The universal reference to the Hellenism of Scythic origin Anacharsis, the Greek-Syros Digenitas Akritas, the Roman of Melodou, but also Kavafis, the Hellenism of the excellent boys and girls who lifted up on Monday who passed the blue-white, fully conscious of where the symbolic weight of honor and responsibility comes from shows us the way. That is our answer to ethnic denial. This is our response to intolerance, to any kind of compact view that is the foreign to the values and ideals that are identified with our nation. A few days ago, ladies and gentlemen, from the heavens of Thessaloniki, Major Dimitrios Volakakis reminded us that "this people do not kneel, only in front of their dead". With today's bill, the government is still taking a decisive step towards implementing its obligation to serve and protect this single and deep human people. For the present and the future of Hellenism, I invite you all to vote on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u442	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Bukokoros, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u443	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, while I hear the SYRIZA and its members appealing to the New Democracy for illusions, for ideas, for ethnicism, I understand the lack of political positions. And of course, I see what the Prime Minister said, that the post-election stress of the SYRIZA officials is evident. You are looking all night to interpret what the Government representative said, to read behind the lines, with cuts, and to draw your own conclusions, forgetting what your ministers have said. Was he the Minister of the New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, the one who threatened to open the Greek border and fill Europe with jihadists? Was it the Minister of the New Democracy or the leading Minister of SYRIZA, who directly expressed his views that demographic can be resolved with immigration? Or was it a New Democracy Minister who said that immigrants are melting and disappearing when a hundred and fifty thousand people do not know what happened to that country? What exactly are you proud of your policy? I heard the former Prime Minister say that deaths have stopped over your days. Who told you that? And before the European Union-Turkey Agreement, and after the accidents on your day, there was a lot of it. We had hundreds of victims. They're estimated to be over three hundred. These are recorded. You have also been presented by my colleague, Mrs Vulture in the Minutes. Read the details of the accidents that have occurred on your day. But here we do not weigh the victims. It's always possible that an accident at sea is when it's human - how much more people - at sea. You come here and say that for your days everything worked perfectly and on the days of the New Democracy it will all go wrong and we will have human victims. Let's take a look at the evidence that's been filed in the Minutes. But what else are you proud of? Are you proud of Moria, of Samos, of Earned? These are your creations. These are creations of your own days. The President of SYRIZA has come to criticise - if you would like - and the Observation System, which the Prime Minister has explained very well to you, is a system which will inform the Turkish coastguard of the smugglers' boats, etc., so that, ladies and gentlemen, it can be demonstrated and with evidence that Turkey does not comply with what has been signed in the agreement with the European Union and to substantiate that it is working on the immigration - refugee issue and that we also prove this in Europe, which is the key part of the signing of this agreement. What did you choose for research, rescue and surveillance? Do You Remember? PP3 and 500 million soups. Where are PP3 and the 500 million, ladies and gentlemen, chosen by the SYRIZA Government for research, rescue and surveillance? It would be a good thing before we criticize, look at our own things. Of course, criticism is always annoying when you have lost - and recently - power. But we don't have a short memory. It is an issue that requires understanding, which requires consent. It is a national issue. We all agree on that, but we are doing differently in accordance with our political - party interests. What management are you talking about? What else are you proud of? You have only absorbed 22% of the funds and are controlled by both OLAF and mismanagement. Absorb very little and administer them, as things show and investigations, in a very bad way. So where is it assumed that you've worked right? Where is your pride in managing immigration based? Now, let's go see what the law is. Minister, I hear the Left accusing you of levelling the rights of refugees and immigrants completely. I also hear the end of the ward of the political scene on the right accusing the bill of jurisdiction. We have cross-fire. Some say that rights are disappearing, and that you are giving a lot of rights. I guess you're walking right. I guess the bill's on the right track. From that point on, what's the law? It is a solid and clear piece of legislation that aspires to become a tool in the hands of judges, in the hands of committees, in the hands of lawyers, in the hands of all those involved with this burning issue. What else is that law? It is the dictatorial piece of legislation which incorporates international law, Union law, international agreements signed by the country and from which it is bound, and above all, it produces national law, because we are the ones who are dealing with the problem, and that is now abstract. Of course, we are calling for European solidarity. Of course, we are pleased by the Maltese Agreement. Of course, we are pleased with the statement made by the German Minister for the Interior. Of course, we must step up the debates on the change of the Dublin II Treaty. All of this is a prospect of a more adequate response to a matter that is not just about Greece. But to say that everything was perfect and to have lost a hundred thousand people, not to know the official Greek organized state where these people are, to have created... [[Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] One hundred and ten thousand, a hundred forty, a hundred fifty. But there are tens of thousands of them, ladies and gentlemen, for whom there is insufficient evidence. Why do you know what the system you implemented was? It was a system inefficient, which was a magnet for the flows. Unsolved procedures, which have never resulted in a result and the average period for final examination, were two and a half years. Hey, doesn't that magnetize the streams? From there on, as far as the placement in Greece is concerned - and the Minister told you, and the Prime Minister said so - there will be no surprise. No local society will be surprised. What do you think? You are accusing the New Democracy today of building structures in land Greece, what SYRIZA had announced. And we ask you: Four and a half years why didn't you create these structures? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] They said so, Mr. Comrade. Your rapporteur said so this morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u444	We support this!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u445	He criticized.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u446	Don't say anything you want, Mr. Bukowo.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u447	Mr. Bukkaro, don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u448	The vulnerability had become a machine. The field doctor couldn't know what that advice the private doctor gave. You have come to call "prosperous" 85% of people with any profile. This, too, created problems. Does anyone really think that such a matter can be handled without detention and without refunds? This proves both the ideology and the prism under which you dealt with the issue and it was no more than what you heard in the slogan "let everyone come and do what they want". Shouldn't a favoured state set terms and rules? Only rights, no obligations? That's exactly what this law does. It houses a public administration situation in order to better manage the issue. Structures at less than 30% level. Four hundred and fifty recruits told you, the Minister said that they would be made directly at the asylum office, but also at other competent agencies. How, then, do you claim with what evidence has you handled this? And to God, do not blame local societies for xenophobia and racism! The Greeks have proved to be committed to the hospitality rules. Do you know what brought feelings of fear and concern to the surface? It was the "Identified" and the "Mories" that you created and brought back the reflexes of the societies that are afraid of what will happen, for what will come, for what will come in the morning. Because the state of anarchy in Moria, the fires, the murders, the rapes, do not send the right message to the Greek society.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u449	Mr. Buquoir, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u450	Greek society has not suddenly become racist, as it is easy for you to blame local communities and municipal authorities. We are therefore ambitious for this reason, and we call on you to vote for it, that this bill will be a useful tool in dealing with a complex and difficult issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u451	And because it is entitled to it, but also happily represents its entire parliamentary group, I will give the floor to Mrs Giannakopoulos for two minutes - because she has taken her protagonists and dentology - for one intervention. Here you go, Mrs. Giannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u452	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today we are discussing a serious and very complex issue, perhaps the most difficult problem facing our country. And you know, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have to have a debate, with our agreements, with our disagreements, on a first step that needs to be taken. This has to do with the incorporation of the directives, their codification and, above all, the simplification and as shortening of asylum procedures as possible. And instead of doing this on the substance, unfortunately, I am very afraid that we are using it as an opportunity either for bulbs or for micro-party controversies or for operatives to become one. Mr President, it is not possible to enjoy this debate with lessons about so-called patriotism and who is more patriot than the other. Unfortunately, we have heard both Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Tsipras struggling about who is a more patriot. I firmly believe that everyone we are in this Chamber here is the same patriots! Nor, on the other hand, can some lessons from humanism and use examples of three - year - old children as a confrontation on such a sensitive issue. That's gross, it's unacceptable, it's totally doomed! I am very sorry - Mr Chakalotos is not in the Chamber - but lessons of humanism from the founders of Moria cannot be taken! As also Minister - Mr Chryssohoidis is not present at the moment - you must understand that you have been too late. You have to understand that you have been unprepared. At the moment, you are taking a first step, but you must bring in a national plan to which we will be able to conduct a substantial national dialogue. Today, for the second time, the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe, who once again confirmed the inefficiency in managing this issue, the inefficiency of both the present government and the previous one. So let us agree on a few things - and I shall end with that, Mr President - to force Europe to guard our borders and strengthen itself in a border guard. Let us agree to change the joint declaration of the European Union - Turkey. Let us press for the relocation process to the other countries of the European Union. Let us put the request back to the change in Dublin II, all together. Because, unfortunately, if we do not agree, we will be at the expense of the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u453	Mrs Giannakopoulos, I was a Member of the European Parliament when NATO bombed Yugoslavia and the Council of Europe did not remember visiting Belgrade at that time. A card also remembers talking about human rights. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a statement to this House. The Finance and Justice Ministers have today tabled a draft law: "Amendments to the Criminal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure and the relevant provisions". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Mr Philip Loading, Member of the Cyclades of the New Democracy, has the floor. Then there's Mr. Lippi and Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u454	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard too much all this time and I feel that we are in a virtual reality. So let's start over. Imigration is, as we all believe, the biggest social problem. We all understand that the Greek society is tired, but also the Greeks have never turned their backs on immigrants and refugees. Of course, our remote islands are suffocating and inland areas with housing structures have many problems. It is therefore necessary to keep our own borders in order to stop refugees and immigrants from becoming a lever of pressure from other interests in the Aegean. You, gentlemen, brought the country into the current situation - which we have received - on immigration. So our aim is to control our borders and take care of those who deserve asylum. At the same time we demand, of course, European solidarity and cooperation with international fora. Of course the most important debt of both the European Union and Greece, as a member of Europe, is to protect them, to ensure fair asylum procedures and, furthermore, to ensure sustainable living conditions in serious organised structures. With the present bill, then, we are evading and unblocking the bureaucratic procedures for bringing asylum to those who really deserve it. We define border guards with a simultaneous rapid-efficiency programme for returning those who are not entitled to them in the countries from which they come. But what is the main objective of the asylum plan? As a gentleman, to restore an operational, proper framework for asylum, but also to show and, of course, to show the existence of a state to third-country nationals. Let us not forget, therefore, that the system left by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government acted as a point of attraction for third-country nationals. So he practically left the Greeks without protection. And, of course, it left them unprotected - but for you, who are invoking humanity - and the refugees and immigrants, who have had to protect them, and have covered those who have nothing to do with the concept of international protection. So we put an end to this bill, to anarchy and to infraction at the reception stage. For the first time, we predict that in the event that foreigners do not comply with their transfer decisions to other structures, this means that they do not want protection and will be referred back procedures. And because I have heard the rapporteur for the Greater Opposition take the sword of transparency, let us come to the tragic situation in the reception centres, but also hosting refugees and immigrants, who - as we believe - are a lack of transparency. That's the result of all that money you've taken. And, of course, the European Union has made complaints about the ways in which it is managed. Who, then, shared the two billion euros for the refugee? How, and for what reasons have millions of euros been made available to deal with this whole issue over the last four years? Indicative of the whole situation - to remind colleagues - were the resignations of two Secretarys-General over the last four years by the Ministry of Migration Policy and, of course, they have been accompanied by various complaints and mismanagement and non-transparent procedures. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A bit of your tolerance, Mr President. You have certainly declared your pride in all this. You declared proud of the one million illegal immigrants who in 2015 went through the country to the European Union. Even now you are fighting the strict framework that our government brings.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u455	Finish, Mr. Loading.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u456	So all this is an irreparable blow both in the country itself and in its credibility with the signature SYRIZA and, of course, ANEL. So what do we do? We only bring asylum to refugees in transparent procedures
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u457	Mr. Loading, leave what we're doing and close.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u458	I'm closing, Mr. President. We continue with respect both to Greeks and Greeks and to international law and social acquis. We are guarding our borders, which are also Europe's borders. For all these reasons, Mr President, we are also voting in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u459	We are moving with our colleague from New Democracy, Ljupe Athanasio. Here, you have the floor, Mr. Lippe.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u460	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill deals with a vital issue for our country. Greece, because of its geographical position, has been at the main gateway of refugees and migrants in Europe. To date, the management of this serious situation has been more than ineffective. The demonic legislative framework, the undersubmitment of asylum services and the lack of any serious planning they had brought our country into a borderline, leaving many people from third countries unprotected. At the end of last July, sixty-seven thousand asylum applications were pending and fourteen thousand appeals were awaiting examination, proving the scale of the problem. This is an extremely complex matter, and it is very much about the implementation of the European Union-Turkey Agreement. However, the national management of the matter is also important. Today's bill sets out a serious and understandable framework for dealing with the situation for the first time. First of all, what is being done for the first time with today's bill is to consolidate legislation on international protection, taking into account national and European case-law. To date, the relevant provisions have been dispersed and it has been extremely difficult for anyone to have a clear picture of what ultimately applies in any case and what is not. The organisation of individual provisions under this bill also agrees with the Citizens' Counsel, because this promotes legal certainty. The specific provisions of the draft law bring major improvements to all major issues. If applications for international protection are rejected, there will be a possibility of bringing an action, but now an application should be made by means of a document setting out specific reasons, otherwise it will be rejected as inadmissible. The integration of minors into primary and secondary education - so far I would remind you that it has not been compulsory - and in the event of a breach of this obligation, parents, adults of the family, as well as Greeks, are subject to the same sanctions. Also, in the new provision, applicants for international protection will not be able to enter the labour market immediately, but only if six months have elapsed since the application was lodged and there is no primary decision without the delay of the applicants themselves. A major and significant change is that there will now be a legitimate performance, even when the applicant itself cannot be identified, as is very often the case in practice. With the new provisions, performance will be legally performed to the attorney or authorised consultant. This will enable all deadlines to run and speed up return procedures. For the first time, it will be possible to decide to refund applicants even before a decision is taken on their application, as, for example, where the application has been rejected as manifestly unfounded. The creation of a list of safe third countries will significantly facilitate proceedings, since those from these countries will be presumed not to be entitled to protection unless specific conditions are invoked for themselves. Up to now 85% of immigrants were among vulnerable groups. The categories of those considered to be vulnerable are now identified and the post-traumatic stress is no longer the reason for vulnerability. A reasoned recommendation of the competent medical staff of the host centre is also required to refer them to social protection bodies. Finally, the incredible lawlessness that prevailed in hospitality is tackled decisively. With the new regulation, when we have a serious breach of the regulations on the operation of host centres and, above all, when violent behaviour occurs, there will be a break in material terms and a check on the possible execution of criminal offences. This will restore security within these areas. The implementation of the new provisions will speed up the procedures for examining requests for international protection. The return of those who are not entitled to protection will be made in a more direct way, since the rejection decisions will also be adopted. The measures that we are voting on today will help effectively to distinguish who really need protection, to return to their countries those who are not entitled to remain on European soil and ultimately to help those who need us on the basis of the principles of humanism, international law and the Geneva Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u461	Mr. Ioannis Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u462	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, immigration is by far the biggest problem facing the country today. Anyone who doesn't understand it, I think he lives in another country. Society boils and boils for many and various reasons. There may be an exaggeration in society no doubt. There may be a fear of intense concern in society, clearly there is. But why is that? Because migration, together with the great demographic problem, is a serious problem, which we have not yet managed to deal with in this country, and the migration of Greek young people who go abroad to find work, to live decently, has caused a treaty of ethnic and cultural alteration of our society. It is the only issue that can alter and weaken our country's social cohesion. People see that. Some people are approaching the whole thing by saying that those who react are racist. We're not racist. Real racists in Greece are a small minority. Most Greeks do not believe that there are higher and lower tribes to be racist. There are no higher and lower breeds. All humans are the same. We do not judge people according to their political beliefs, with their sexual preferences, with their religious faith, with the color of their skin. That's what very few of them do. The majority of the Greeks do not. Greeks are not racist. Are they scared? Yeah, they're scared. Are they too scared? Maybe, but their fear is based. What's the basis? You know, in this country at times we have incorporated in our society many foreigners who have come to this country. I remember because I grew up in Byron, which had many Armenians who had been rescued from the genocide of the Turks in the early 20th century. They had come to Greece and had found with the Greek refugees in Asia Minor a refuge in those areas. Armenians were fully integrated into Greek society. In many cases they are more Greek than the Greeks. At times they have been integrated into Greek society and many who were Albanians. And in the last wave of Albanians that came after 1990 most of them have been integrated, assimilated to Greek society and function normally in society. Why? Because they don't have a problem with our way of life. They have no problem with our culture. They have no problem with our culture, with our values or with our laws. There are, however, others who have a problem with all this and do not want to be incorporated. Fantastic Muslims will never be integrated into Greek society, as they have not been incorporated into any Western society. They were neither incorporated into Britain nor France with a history of decades. They do not even integrate into what is multicultural societies, which Greece is not, such as the United States, Canada and Australia. And they're not even incorporated into Sweden yet. The problem with Muslim immigrants in Sweden is too great. But it is not that we are racists in Greece. We are faced with a problem greater than our powers. What does that mean? It means, in practical terms, that those who have the right to receive international protection, that is to say, political asylum, must be welcomed in our country. The decision of the Ice Bay that yesterday gave political asylum to a woman from Iran who was being persecuted for her beliefs and her way of life is brave. It's brave, and we all applauded it. But we cannot accept anyone who does not respect the laws, values, our culture and want to impose their own values, their own laws, their own culture. I'm not saying if we're inferior or superior. I accept that they have a higher civilization than we do. But it's not us and we don't want that. This is the real fear and the real corner of the Greeks today. That is why I think the draft law tabled today in this House, which is being voted, is in the right direction. That is enough - because, as Roydes said, in Greece, it is not enough for a law to be passed, it must also be implemented - that this law must be implemented properly and implemented in a timely manner so that those who really need international protection can obtain and stay in Greece and those who must not be able to leave and go abroad again where they come from. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u463	And we, Mr. Loverdo, and actually in time. I say the next five minutes: Mr. Davakis, Mr. Vitsas, Mr. Villardos, Mr. Voloudakis and Mr. Zachariadis. Mr. Davakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u464	Ladies and gentlemen, we have followed once again, I regret to say this expression, a hypocrisy recital on behalf of the Vice-President. A hypocrisy that sets up ghosts of racism, intolerance and appalling syndromes, especially on a side that currently has the legislative initiative, when fresh are the memories of all of us how you handled the refugee issue. In this management, I will exclude the Armed Forces, who have effectively unleashed the whole case. I would once again like to honour and thank the women and men of the Armed Forces, who, without them, have not known where we would be in recent years. I believe that this is also the former Minister, Mr Vitsas, who has managed this issue with the executives. Prime Minister Mitsotakis said that this bill, this legislative initiative looked at the hunters of this world, and so is, but also on the rights of Greek citizens. To these people who, for a number of reasons, come to our home country, move to the area mainly through the seaside, but also on land, and indeed need to receive humanitarian treatment. In this Chamber a moment ago, as was said before, only the division was an officer's opposition. Now, just now, Mr. Tsakalots reminded us of the tragic case of Eilan, this baby, a child who is all of us, who in the Aegean waves exploded dead on a shore, confronting and separating this fact by giving a picture of fearful syndromes, as I have said, and all those who compose things that we have never thought about, we have no mind to face in all our appearances and our political and personal life. Therefore, instead of consulting in terms of humanism and management adequacy on an issue that I fear is still at the beginning of, there are things in this Chamber that, unfortunately, do not honor the Greek Parliament, its representatives and people who I believe are also called upon by their institutional role and by the faith and oath that we have given the Greek people to manage the biggest issue, as Mr Loverdes said before, after the issue that has to do with demographics. This is what our country is to face. This balance is therefore one of four parameters, such as humanitarian, the possibility of this place to welcome thousands, hundreds of thousands of people, the issues of internal security, which must also be taken into account, and also the neighbor's work. On such a matter we are coming, I would say, immaturely - and I address, in particular, the officials of the Officership, particularly her Chief of State, SYRIZA, who handled this issue, was a handler of the issue, who mentioned things that are not there. We are therefore called upon today to deal with them. This makes this bill, a bill that is free of past failures, has past experience and raises issues which, as a tool, will give a solution to the chronic problems and the failures that have so far existed. I believe that by voting it will become an important tool and will be used in the context of a new, holistic approach to the immigration issue, which our country is currently facing. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not move forward at all, we will not improve our political customs, if I say so, of management bills, of other times' ideologies, bring about divisive tendencies of this level that you are taking to us on this side. Nor were we racists, nor are we fearful, nor, I would say, people who are trying to ideologicalize situations which at the moment need more direct humanity. This is what faces and solves this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u465	Vice President Vitsas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u466	I hope I will be quick, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u467	We have shown tolerance to colleagues, will we not show the co-chairmen?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u468	I am presenting for the Minutes the part of the New Democracy election programme on border protection. You haven't done very well. [[At this point, Parliament's Vice-President Dimitrios Vitsas presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] I am also tabling the book 'Repeated on the refugee - immigration issue in Greece 2015-2017'. [[At this point, Parliament's Vice-President Dimitrios Vitsas presents for the minutes the above-mentioned book, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Also, for the Practical albums whose photos were taken on November 6, 2018 by all hosting centers etc. [[At this point, Parliament's Vice-President Dimitrios Vitsas presents for the minutes the above album, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] It's not Mr. Bukokouros here and others from New Democracy. What is this 'three administrations'? The other twenty-three what was it? Self-managers? To understand: they just had command from the Ministry of National Defence, and I imagine the Minister knows, I hope he knows, how we handed over a plan to him how much they're going to go through the first reception and identification service. It's a whole law ready to be filed in the House. I am also tabling the national accession strategy in the Minutes, which has been drawn up. I'm filing it now, so I don't take any further care of it. [[At this point, Parliament's Vice-President Dimitrios Vitsas presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] I'd like to say two things. PP3 is aeronautical cooperation planes and not research and rescue. They participate in operations in the ocean when it's for research and rescue. My friend Thanasis is not here. Turkey has signed the Geneva Convention on European Citizens. It does not ask for any Asian or African political asylum in Turkey because it does not deal with it. If there are any Greeks, no Germans will ask for political asylum in Turkey, see, then it will. Thirdly, because this was said as well, and at some point we need to separate our tacks, the Syrian refugees who left Syria in 2013 and so on. have the following breakdown: one and a half million came to Europe, three million two thousand went to Turkey, six million went to Jordan, one million went to Lebanon and four million went to Saudi Arabia. These do not come out because they are Arab countries and say 'our brothers', they do not regard them as refugees. So, close to that - I would say pesos, but I will say euros - what we are spending on refugee - immigration comes and we won it together with Mr Avramopoulos from Europe. Well, this 22% absorption from where did you find it? Is that what it would mean? At best, 400 million. It costs 212 million a year, together with the 'CASH' programme. Just what did someone do? He took the money received by the Greek State - the money is paid by the High Commissioner, the International Organisation for Migration and the Greek State, mainly - he took the money that the Greek State gets, which takes the few, he put it at 2 billion and says 22 billion. Is that how we're gonna talk about it? Mr Kumucako, I have listened fully to your speech. I shall refer to your speech, the question you put to me, you did not put anything personal to me, but at that time I went to see the Minutes of this House because I did not believe in my ears. From that Step Mr. Mitsotakis said that when the thermal cameras were taken, they were followed in the Practus - and then said "port thermal cameras". Such an insult to the military leadership of the Armed Forces, to the Deputy Minister of Defence, Mr Stefani, in the leadership of the port, I have never heard. Our cameras in the Aegean are running, they see what you're saying you're going to do, that's to say, we've been informing each other, that's been happening for a year and a half. Second, five times I've seen Mr. Silu. Nobody tells you not to see the Turks. He tells you not to make this a Greek-Turkish issue. On the four occasions I saw him with Mr Avramopoulos and, on the other hand, I would recommend that you do what you say you do and do not do. Take the twenty thousand of the islands, which you say you will take them, put them in hotels for now, until you build structures, etc. Take Mr. Avramopoulos and go see Mr. Soilou, if you need Mr. Erdogan to see what is going on here, because the joint statement has three points, hierarchically indeed: Turkey takes six billion, stops the flows and if some escape the Turkey process, then they are returned. I don't have to say the numbers again, seventeen thousand five hundred returns. Alexis Tsipras said it, I don't want to repeat it. About the law itself: What does the law say? Fifty-four articles are what we have been through. From there on, there are sixty-three more, what do these sixty-three articles say? One for a reduction in deadlines. All right, let me take it, reduce the deadlines. Mr. Kamine, you'll understand me very well. Do you know why I'm going to accept it? Because they're chainy provisions. I won't vote for them, but they're solid provisions. They don't say what happens if the date passes. I've done the same thing myself. And I'm talking about six months and stop lying. There is a law that says that vulnerability is identified by hospitals, by CEDEFOP and by military doctors. Of course, we had the hospital doctor who was taking them to Samos. Mr. Logotter knows. Ask him. So I say that you do. Create Samos, etc.. But I say to you, they are chainliness and the longer you reduce times, the more you will be exposed and the more you will find it hard for others. Make it twenty of the appeal committees we took. Make it thirty, let me say good, but let's not start 'we got all two asylum offices, we handed over twenty two asylum offices'. Now, this story about border protection -- I'm saying it more about you...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u469	Mr. Vitsa, that's what we're closing up with. Co-Chairmen must set a good example.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u470	I'll say another word. I shall conclude, Mr President. Please. So how are you entitled to be 30 thousand in the quarter for which you speak and go out and say 'border protection'? What's going on? I only tell you one thing that the protection of borders for refugees - immigration - is research and rescue. That's what the law says. I'm telling you the other thing I told you again. Pushback means the Minister and all or all of the lower hierarchy go to jail. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] Don't live lying, don't live lying. SYRIZA didn't call the refugees. The 'global events' are relatively correct. The refugee - immigration - is not a matter of national security. Refugees and immigrants do not raise crime. Bring evidence here. Asylum seekers are not a public health risk. I remind you, not one of them got sick of flu last year. The system is not inconsistent. Greece is the third country etc. I'm closing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u471	This is the third time you've said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u472	When a person has the political and operational responsibility for the refugee - immigration, you should know that he needs to have a high sense of solidarity, a commitment to the defence of humanitarian and, in general, international law, cold blood and sobriety for the absolute misfortune he will see, so that he can sleep at night, and the feeling that anyone who thinks he is capable of solving it alone and does not have to remove the causes that create it...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u473	Finish it, Mr. Vitsa. Let me remind you of what we said at the Conference.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u474	He's just an idiot.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u475	You've been talking at the conference.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u476	Not politically stupid. Normal idiot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u477	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u478	Wait a minute, Mr. Kumucako. Good evening, too. Ten minutes next time, it won't happen from now on. I'm stressing it now. Take note of your speech, so that colleagues can speak. There will be no more ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u479	Let's have the conversation for two days. The bill is important.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u480	That's not what we're gonna decide now. I think you're right, but we won't decide now, and it's none of my business either. Well, there won't be another ten minutes. Mr. Kumucako, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u481	I take the floor for two very brief answers. Mr. Vitsa, how is the effectiveness of a law tested? How was your law tested? What results did it bring? He brought seventy-five thousand pending asylum applications that we received along with those who come, people who wait two and three years to benefit from the right they may have, but who are never granted, which is international protection, which is not only humanitarian. We received a procedure that led essentially to zero returns, which made us open to criticism both of Turkey and of Europeans, and a law that served not as a control or deterrent but as a great institutional magnet. That was not the reason why there were refugee flows, but it made the existing flows more attracted to our country than elsewhere. That's what we say and you don't want to understand. Finally, thermal cameras and bilateralisation. These were the main issues you raised. Thermal cameras. Didn't hear they didn't exist. We said we needed more to get the job done even more properly and to inform the Turkish authorities so that the Turkish authorities are pressed to respond. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] The main theme of bilateralisation: you are rejoining. You said that you - Mr Mouszalas perhaps - had seen the Turkish side five times, so it's about ten more and it's not a solution. Is that what anyone told you it was bilateral? We have once seen Mr Siulou having already stressed and I say to all my public positions that they do not relate to matters and you who have seen him five times to tell us that we are dividing up the issue that I have seen one. But don't you realize that's an argument that goes from everywhere? Finally, national security. I heard you very unequivocally...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u482	Complete, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u483	Yeah, yeah. It's a serious matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u484	Or you'll tell them to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u485	That's enough. Will anyone answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u486	Just one issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u487	Wait a minute. If she does more than half a minute, tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u488	You said, Mr. Vitsa, addressing me, that refugee - immigration is not an issue or a problem...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u489	He's been talking ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u490	No, he doesn't speak ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u491	Will you let me, Mr President, answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u492	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u493	You said that it had nothing to do with refugee immigration with issues of national security. So do you think that a serious state will arise when there are migratory and refugee waves coming from areas where it is well known that there is a strong presence of Islamic extremists? So you are urging the government, the state to manage the issue of immigration-refugee, not to do anything? "It has nothing to do with national security, so don't worry, don't hurry, do nothing?" Is this an appeal serious and you expect us to say 'yes, are you right'? You're making a huge mistake, and it's dangerous what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u494	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u495	He didn't mention your name, Mr. Vitsa. You were talking ten minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u496	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u497	No, please. Today, the biggest battle for colleagues to speak was held by the Bureau, by you, by me, by Mr Tassoulus and by Mr Kaklamanis. Let anyone else speak. Mr. Viliardos from the Greek Solution to come to Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u498	Mr President, open the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u499	No, no. We're not going to take it that way. He didn't say anything about you. I got him in front of me, here he is, here he is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u500	You can't do that. Excuse me! Open the Rules of Procedure of the House. Read him. He referred to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u501	He didn't say a name. I didn't hear him say a name. Name he didn't say.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u502	For two minutes, I ask why. You don't have the right not to give him to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u503	I have the right. I'm giving you two minutes because of respect, honestly speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u504	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u505	Is there anything on personal grounds?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u506	It's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u507	Either you don't listen or you pretend you don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u508	Neither one nor the other.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u509	I told you: 'Don't make it bilateral, of course you can see Silu.' I'm done with this. Secondly, over the last three years, a hundred and thirty-two thousand decisions have been issued by the Asylum Service. Think - why you will come in a few months to tell us - that it is the very increased flows and along with the four hundred, all of which you say you will get them and don't get them, take three hundred interpreters, because a operator without interpreter must know how to apply and pudding in order to be able to do so. Finally, have you told the Greek people - let us 'we are not racist, are we racist' - that on the basis of this law on the five islands there will be five closed structures and five open? If you say 'we will change the agreement between the European Union and Turkey', you have said that Amydaleza is not enough for you, that Paradesti 1 and 2 is not enough for you. What are you gonna do? Are you going to run out of prisons and put them in prison, or will you open up other closed centers all over Greece? You haven't said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u510	I did not, however, touch on any of what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u511	Mr. Villards has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u512	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Tsipras may have been right, with regard to his earlier allegation of not dealing with Turkey, but with Germany there was certainly a transaction on the issue of Skopje. The agreement, which is the product of the transaction, has not been annulled by the New Democracy, on the contrary, supports the entry of Skopje into the European Union. I come to the bill now: it follows the report of the National Committee on Human Rights from September 2019, which incorporates asylum seekers, as well as access to housing, employment, education and health, and should be read by everyone. I'm filing the first three pages in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] A number of polls substantiate that while Greeks are positive in support of refugees, they are cautious or even hostile, as far as illegal immigrants are concerned, 82% are against them. I'm putting down the statistics in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The first is Greece, followed by Hungary, Italy, Germany and Sweden. However, it has been pointed out in the public consultation that a ceiling, a ceiling, should be set for protection and asylum. For example, in the United States of thirty-thirty-three million inhabitants, the plaque was reduced from a hundred thousand in President Obama's period to forty-five thousand in 2018 and thirty-three thousand in 2019, while 2020 will be limited to eighteen thousand. According to the United States, Greece of ten million should have nine hundred per year captives or even a hundred thousand in Obama three thousand three hundred people. With such a backdrop, which we consider essential for all the host states, it is also easier to plan resources for managing migration on the part of the state, and without a pluralist it is becoming a country in a polo of attraction. Of course, this bill does not cost the rights that are given in a simpler way to immigrants, and, from what we have seen, new rights are being amended, which is a classic tactic for all those who avoid talking about fundamental issues. We must note, however, that when the Greeks went to America or Germany, they were not given allowances and free houses, nor have they promised them a multicultural background, but they have, on the contrary, demanded assimilation to their societies and very hard work. From another perspective, it is known that migration flows are a profitable business supported by many professionals. A lot of them are above suspicion. In particular, trafficking in human beings is an activity that generates huge revenue and profits, while in some cases exceeds that of drugs, linked to cases of extortion and coercion. It is considered that only in 2015 brought 1 billion dollars to the traffickers worldwide, while between 2000 and 2014 about 14 billion euros. I present the relevant article in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Continuing, once again, the General Accounting Office does not provide a budget, but only a description of a vague reference to the fact that the cost depends on the size of the phenomenon. So we have come to the calculation below, which is of course entitled to corrections, since they are estimates. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The sum of EUR 1.8 billion calculated as a total cost, almost 1% of GDP, which is higher than the reduction measures for Greeks in the budget of EUR 1.2 billion, is an indication of the total potential expenditure, based on what we have taken into account, irrespective of the source of funding. Finally, we note that expenditure on migration flows is not included in the budget of the primary surplus of 3.5%, according to the forecasts of enhanced surveillance, as shown in the medium-term, but also in the draft budget of 2020. The amounts for the migratory flows planned to be deducted were only 137 million, 2019 were 142 million and 139 million in 2020. It is therefore negligible, so the expenditure which we have calculated above in our table will be more burdensome to budgetary needs and to the surplus. Will the Greeks eventually be invited to pay to cover the budgetary gap that will arise? It is certainly a rhetorical question, since the answer is self-evident. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u513	Thank you, Mr. Villardo. Mrs Anna Happily from New Democracy has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u514	Ladies and gentlemen, both the rapporteur and our parliamentary representative have placed themselves on what we received from the SYRIZA Government on the issue of refugees - immigration. So I am going to say what we are going to do and I am going to do this very sensitively, because I have heard - a colleague, Mr Kouvellas, I think - said so. I have a particular perception of Idomenis, because I have been there as President of the Social Organisation for Young People and have shared food and clothing to immigrants and refugees. Such images should never be seen again and clearly with unreserved care we have to deal with both unaccompanied children and families, and the bill is doing this. Today, from the whole parliamentary procedure, the conclusion I made from your opposition is that the procedure with which asylum is actually being awarded tends to circumvent human rights. However, I am asking myself, because of your own policy - and to mention three figures, a thousand eight hundred returns, some seventy thousand outstanding applications, 22% of resource absorption - are not being circumvented of human rights? Yesterday I heard Mr Musala say on public television that it is about speeding up the process of awarding asylum, and I really do wonder why at least you are not facing more humiliatingly this bill, when it includes all the quality features that will allow the Greek asylum system to face the current reality in which it is called upon to operate, such as closed borders, increased flows, a lack of capacity for Greece to welcome all third-country nationals who wish to enter and stay in Greece. This bill has two objectives: the first is the recognition of the person who actually fulfils the legitimate conditions as a beneficiary of international protection and its effective protection. The second objective is to respect the citizens themselves by integrating the sense of security and respect for local communities. How does he do that? The first way is to codify many scattered regulations in a user-friendly legislative framework, in line with Community legislation, which will serve both administration and asylum seekers. Secondly, accelerating returns through the abolition of the previous appeal procedure and the delays that it entailed. Thirdly, the examination of each case is linked to respect for the rules and the rule of law by asylum seekers. Infringements will now have consequences. Fourthly, the functioning of the system is redesigned and reception and asylum services are strengthened. Fifthly, the mechanism for identifying and controlling asylum seekers is improved. Sixthly, there are working and educational issues for asylum seekers. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is in the right direction. Since the country's authority has been in power, the Prime Minister himself, Mr Mitsotakis, has indicated the importance of the refugee issue in international and European fora. In conclusion, this bill clearly cannot be the solution to such a complex problem, but it lays the basis for our country to formulate its own policy on the issue of refugees - immigration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u515	Thank you, too. Here, follow Mrs. Euthymou's example. He said it all in three minutes. Mr. Zachariadis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u516	It's only a problem for Assassin. Fourteen thousand was Idomen, almost what Moria is today. Fifteen thousand is Moria.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u517	Mrs. Fotio, your colleague has gone up to the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u518	So I'll say what Mrs. Fotio says to hear from Stepma. Mr. Ministers, you're tending to go beyond Idomeni number. Be a little more pitiful when you criticize us, because within a quarter you have unfortunately done three worse. And, unfortunately, I heard the Prime Minister a few hours ago from this, the Step is saying about refugee and Europe. Mr. Kumucaco, wasn't it your party that brought Mr. Manfred Weber as the candidate for the European Right from the European Right to Athens? Mr Weber who embraced the demands of the Visegrad countries and closed the eye on these policies? Well, be merciful to criticise our own mobility and our own opportunity to negotiate. There's something unexplainable going on here. While bad SYRIZA was defeated both in municipal and regional elections, which changes the country's governance system as a whole, the refugee - immigration from a difficult but manageable issue became dramatically worse and tends to become uncontrolled. You don't need to be either SYRIZA or New Democracy to understand that leaving the government had five thousand refugees in Moria and now it has fifteen thousand, it has fifteen thousand refugees on the border islands and now it has thirty. Why did this happen? Because the New Democracy, unfortunately, had not understood and understood nothing of this truly complex and multifactorial issue. She took over power and watches it progress in front of her by looking for excuses and communications tricks to change the essence of the problem and load the responsibilities that arise in the way she is governed, to others. It could, for example, over the years instead of denouncing SYRIZA and only watching Greek media see how they managed or tried to manage other European right-wing parties this issue. Unfortunately, however, instead of that, you have imagined public opinion, you have accepted, tolerated and spread lies, you have created negative impressions through media, and now we are all being called upon to bathe the tragic failure of your own idealism. You are now looking for new verbal shapes and for communication games of the type of refugees and immigrants and what the majority is. Like on board the boats in the middle of the Aegean Sea, you can get interviews. And all this to justify unjustified. Now, then, even the time has come for the truth. Yes, the refugee is a matter of geopolitical reclassifications and he wanted courageously what you said, Mr Kumucaco and your good. It was also on SYRIZA, it is also on New Democracy, and it will be the great challenge for mankind in the 21st century if we consider migration and refugee due to climate change. Where is that dimension of policy in what we are discussing today? Yes, maritime borders have a dramatic higher degree of difficulty in keeping them in relation to land. But there is international law and the law of the sea and there must finally be an end to the fun with the worst and best guarding of the borders. It doesn't expose this thing to New Democracy or SYRIZA. He's exposing the country. And, of course, Europe and the European Union have not taken the responsibilities they deserve and tolerate the practices of right-wing and right-wing governments. And finally, yes, Turkey is a difficult neighbour, but we must recognise that it has some four million refugees on its territory, and many times, unfortunately, it is using them as a means of pressure. So explain to all Greek women and all Greeks that effective border care is different when it comes to enemies and that it is another thing to handle the violent re-promotion of the sea. You do not need to explain this to us, your party needs to explain it, and you need to disapprove the far right wing of your party, which considers refugees and immigrants to be invaders. For our part, we know very well what we need to do. Our values, our principles, our humanity, a party's responsibility on a government orbit require us to be on the opposite side of the way that New Democracy has opposed us. The times impose responsibility, seriousness and design, and because we are a people who have experienced immigration and refugee in their minds, because we are in a particularly sensitive geopolitical position and face objective difficulties and burdens, we are a society that over time has been distinguished for our solidarity and the values of hospitality are in our tradition. We will not, therefore, become racist because of conditions, we will not make cheap opposition to the bodies and the human desperation of refugees and immigrants or to the insecurity of our local citizens, we will not exploit or try to build walls where bridges are needed, because we are not all the same and it is time to prove it in practice. Because it appears from reports that the government, Mr Chrysochoidis, organizes the installation of unaccompanied refugee in the municipality of Pentelis in Bombola Wing, there in Amalia Fleming. So, how do we treat these kids, and I'll be out in half a minute? As the President of the ONNED Pentelis said - I think it is the lady who told Mr Mitsotakis how handsome he is - with aggression or we will open up our arms in order for these children to find a roof and a school. And because I in this region - I don't know when the former president of the ONNED Pentelis - came from a young age, I remember that in the 1990s we welcomed our homes and our refugee schools from Serbia. That's how we have to do it now. I say this because the conflict in this is not within us, it is within you. So, obviously, we are here to be able to support policies, we will obviously show your irresponsibility and horror. I mean, two things lately and I'll be out in half a minute. We do not need you and you cannot take 'patridometers'. If you want to take "patridometers" out and count inside your party. You've done it many times. And because the issue of national security is coming too: in the end, Tsipras, who from this Step point of view pointed out to you the danger of putting you in a sensitive and neuro-algal position, in the place of the commander of the NRA, a man who, when he was placed, did not have the standard qualifications and then changed the standard qualifications, changing the law, walking the parliamentary procedure and of course the dignity of a standardised party, has them and then changed it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u519	Thank you, Mr Zachariadis. Mr Manosos Voloudakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u520	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, before entering the debate on the bill, allow me a brief reference to the question raised in the parade in New Halkidona. We had an attack on a national symbol. That's it. That's what it's called. It's a criminal offense. I don't know what anyone can say. The laws exist to apply. Minister, I don't know if there were any police at that time. But I think it should show reflexes better and I think you should draw attention to the future in order to avoid problems of this kind. Now, in the bill under discussion, we have led to the situation that we are in today by an unfortunate combination, the combination of international developments in our region, with the open borders policy implemented by the SYRIZA government. The truth is that SYRIZA had before the 2015 elections announces the basic principles of his policy on immigration. In this sense migration is the only policy area that SYRIZA has not deceived citizens. I was just surprised to hear Mr Vitsa say that there is no such policy and I still hear noise from colleagues and colleagues in SYRIZA. I remember Mr Vitsa as Minister to go to the Pakistani community and announce that with a simple paper he will be given a residence permit, following some legislative intervention. If this wasn't an open invitation, "Come back to our home country to those who have problems with yours," what was it? The results of this policy were disastrous. There is no need for most Greeks to have a special debate. I'm going to point out a paradox. Those who, in the name of humanity, exercised the policy of open borders...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u521	Is that what Vitch said?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u522	Please! You'll hear him. You may come and you may be provoking. Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u523	As much as it bothers you, I've got two minutes and I can't do any different. Those who, in the name of humanism, exercised the policy of open borders, delivered to the current government the inhumane disgrace of Moria. The protection of refugees is an international obligation of the country. And if it were not to be, our humanity would have imposed the protection of refugees and the protection of human life. But it is not an obligation for the country to accept all the people of the planet asking for a better tomorrow. The country already has a very large number of immigrants. We have to say things by their name. Our homeland cannot accept even more economic immigrants and it is not just economic reasons. First of all, it is not possible to incorporate so many people in such a short time. A country of eleven million inhabitants is currently hosting over a million immigrants and refugees. We have to say another truth: to incorporate someone in our democratic state, it must share the principles on which this state is founded. A large proportion of the immigrants who now come to our home country come from cultures that have shown world-wide difficulty in integrating into their host countries. Enough with the tyranny of political correctness imposed by the Left and some willing translaters of its ideas into other political spaces. Let's say things by their name. Many migrants come from environments, where Islam's strict versions prevail, incompatible with the principles on which today's Europe is founded, incompatible with our open society and our democratic heritage. We cannot take this into account, nor can it be regarded as far-right or racist rhetoric. He's a common mind. It is foolish to claim in the name of tolerance that it must incorporate those who do not share the principle of tolerance. Carl Popper has developed the relevant paradox: Tolerance in intolerant communities ultimately leads to the imposition of the principles of tolerance. This government was found to be faced with an upturn in migratory flows. It started with self-evident, the reinforcement of patrols, border guards, land and sea, and many other moves that I am now omissioning to the economy of time. I only note and praise the efforts of the most sensitive human dimension in the problem, the efforts to improve the living conditions of unaccompanied children and to reunite as soon as possible with their families. The draft law under discussion is part of this overall policy in the right direction. In particular, I would like to point out the simplification of the procedures for identifying and evaluating applications so that the separation between migrants and refugees can be quickened. And quite rightly, in my view, the conditions for granting asylum are indeed tightened up. We must, however, move on and then implement a clear and rigorous policy on the basis of the draft law. In the bill, Minister, you have the necessary provisions for the operation of closed pre-regions centres. It was, moreover, part of the New Democracy programme that the Greek people voted in the July elections. However, the available closed centres are not sufficient. You are already carrying twenty thousand immigrants to the inland and the majority of them will end up in open structures, and perhaps it will become impossible for some of them to be identified later. You must immediately start developing new closed structures, present us with your specific policy on the development of these centres. These closed centres will also help to control more effectively the immigrants who are in the country today, but will also act as a deterrent for those who might want to risk coming to Greece, not because they are at risk in their homeland, but because they are looking for a better life. There is another point that needs to be taken care of with regard to immigration. A large number of non-governmental organizations are active in this area. Some are controlled either by justice or by OLAF. Public administration must also explore how they operate and not just in terms of managing public money. What do I mean in particular? These organisations are active in an area relating to the national security of the country. Mr Koumoutsakos quite rightly replied to Mr Vitsa on this. We are entitled to know in detail who these people are, under what conditions they are doing their work. We should know what their sources of funding are, I mean private funding. We neither want to ban the financing of any organisation, but we have the right to know their own place of residence. And I do not see why an organisation that wants to carry out humanitarian purposes would object to transparency. The bill is on the right basis, it's a good start. Go ahead, Minister, and in the next necessary steps, because there is no more time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u524	Thank you. Mr. Ioannis Balafas from SYRIZA has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u525	Ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, the government has always been embarrassed and uncompleted to observe what has been said. We have recently had the tragic event of drowning in the Aegean, on the outskirts of Kos, we have the escalating reactions of a dynamic section - name it as you like - with the incitement and right-wing local rulers there who do not want refugees and immigrants coming from the islands in the inland. While monitoring, in my opinion, awkward and uncompleted draft events in this category, it brings at the same time a bill claiming that it applies European Union directives faithfully. Is that to a certain extent true? It's true. But he's doing something else with this bill. Where our own legislative initiatives, actions went a little further, in the direction of solidarity, in the direction of humanity, in the direction of efficiency, it cuts existing laws or directives. In other words, it makes an adjustment, in our view, to the worst. In other words, the majority of the articles may be copying or incorporating texts of directives or the laws of the existing and adopted by us such as Law No.4375 or Law.4540, but there is a large number of procedural obstacles which are raised by the provisions of the bill concerning the effective exercise of the rights of applicants for international protection, thus illuminating with this bill and its provisions and highlighting the real political project of the Right Government, namely the prevention and repression of asylum seekers. These are provisions, which, in my opinion, are being circumvented by international law and which are a serious retreat to human rights and the rule of law. From the many provisions which testify to and confirm the previous assessment, for example generalisation of booking, not detention as an exception, but generalisation, and even detention of minors are maintained, such as the deterioration of the guarantees, such as the self-reserved presence compulsory for people who have to be transferred to such distances that are prohibited for themselves because of the lack of means of transport. I will only mention one provision which I consider to be particularly characteristic of the time that I have. The provision relating to the drawing up of lists of safe areas as regards origin and origin. Because this provision - if I am not wrong with Article 86, in conjunction with Article 77 - undermines the individual examination of every asylum seeker. In other words, the cornerstone of the examination of asylum seekers' applications, which is an individual examination - in my opinion, in the opinion, of international law, EU law, etc. - he goes walk through the tooling of these lists because he categorizes whole groups, groups and goes for a drive essentially or really degrades the personalized examination of the posters. That is why they suddenly discovered rhetoric 'no refugees, they are immigrants', in my opinion. Falsely and without evidence or ignoring the evidence. Unless Afghanistan, Syria, Iraq, Somalia is not war zones, but it is paradise. There have been some criticisms that have been made to us, well-meaning or misappropriated, no matter what, by people who know or by people who don't know anything, they just took and read something. So we were criticised everywhere that during our years we were stacking people, easily calling refugee or vulnerable, we were not guarding the borders, in my opinion falsely and with a right-wing populist spirit. I would like to give an answer to these accusations, and it is the response that is condensed in the following proposals: 'There has been excellent cooperation between the rulings, in the government of SYRIZA, with the institutions and bodies at Greek, European and international level. Until recently the situation was controlled, solidarity has always been in place and there have been no problems with terrorists and terrorism in these years." We are not talking about this, the latest statements by the Commissioner responsible for immigration in the European Union, Mr Dimitris Avramopoulos. Therefore, this is a glorious field of glory for the ministers who will be involved next. I would therefore say that we should deal with, deal with, treat as a European problem, the refugee - immigration issue with alliances with the countries of the South, and particularly with Italy, with pressure on Europe for a fair and proportionate distribution of refugees and immigrants, so that our country does not become a store of souls. Of course, we must always take into account the difficulties of our country, a country that has gone through a major crisis and the citizens are tired of the crisis and, more generally, of the situation. However, this difficulty is faced with the refugee - immigration with solidarity and with humanity, particularly in a country that has also been a country of immigration and as a country that has been a host of refugees. I refer to our brothers in the 1920s from Asia Minor and Pontto. So seriousness, above all, planning and understanding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u526	Thank you, Mr Balafa. Mr Socrates Famelos has the floor from SYRIZA. I hope it doesn't embarrass me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u527	Mr President, this cannot be done! Good evening, Mr President, Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. We are discussing a very crucial issue for Greek society, which cannot be solved unless we discuss the causes. War conflicts, inequalities, climate change, human rights violations, democratic rights that create the flow of millions of refugees on the planet, while it is hypocritical that the world community's attitude to essentials, while the Greek Government is reckless, but it says in the case of Turkey's invasion of the Kurds, with an external policy that is becoming increasingly one-dimensional and retreat, dangerous and Greek interests. On the subject we are discussing, I would like to say that the government is trying to solve the problem with a change of title. I wonder: Children in the Aegean will not be in danger if we say the problem of immigration? Will infrastructure not be enough if we say the problem of immigration? Will Turkey's blackmail stop if we change the name? Unfortunately, we see, on the side of the government and of the New Democracy, micro-group exploitation with far-right screams before the elections, channels, mayors, mayors, all in duty to the SYRIZA government. And where did we get here? In the full denial, inability and in the growth of problems, but at the same time in the impediment of society with hatred. The channels were again saying that in a neighborhood they took - he says - the shotguns to welcome the refugees. I am not just talking about the fact that you have now discovered the geopolitical causes. I am not even talking about the result of the recent survey showing that only 6% of the citizens are happy with your refugee policy, while at least 65% of the citizens think you have no plan and are not ready, Mr Chrysochide. First of all, I refer to the wrong choice of abolishing the Ministry. For a leading European problem linked to demographic, social cohesion, the economy is being abolished by the Ministry. And in order to understand the craving of the New Democracy, let me tell you, Mr Chrysochide, a personal experience of mine: on Tuesday I went to the Refugee Centre for the Readingpoulou in Diavatas. We were told by the workers there that since 17 September of the construction, the crews left, the police who served it. In other words, the Ministry of Civil Protection took over the New Democracy 'class and security' doctrine to get the police officers out of the centers. It's a very nice consequence. That's tragic. The people who are in the center come and ask us to have one there after noon, so that they can agree. There are two and a half days - in particular, when it is a holiday, there are three and a half days - without a single person being addressed. And Mr. Chrysochoidis chose from the structure, the Camp Anagnostopoulou to pick up the two police officers who were at the door helping both the residents and the guests. This is the consequence of 'class and safety'. So in your own scenario, what exactly is it going to be? To leave the state of all functions? Unless you think about what Mr Hatzidakis does in energy, you can privatize refugee accommodation centres! I've got you capable of that, too. However, it is not only that the New Democracy has no perception of the problem, of the size, of the international debate and of the operational needs. It is that its values run counter to the tools for solving the problem. Because they do not care about the common good, they only care about propaganda, political communication, chair, power - regardless of party, the chair is always sweet for this government - and create as many problems as they can. Because in refugees the government creates problems and does not solve them. Let me tell you examples from centres in my area: in Vayochori, in the Municipality of Volvi, where we went on October 14th, the structure was ready by the previous government. But they kept it inactive because they were ideologically stuck in the fact that people must stay on the islands, so that Moria from six thousand to fifteen thousand. They screwed up in the Aegean islands, literally, hurting both refugees and islanders. So they're hurting everyone. The New Democracy policy has no good for anyone. It is dangerous for both islanders and refugees. Everyone's lost after all. So we have seven hundred refugees, of which three hundred children, multiple families with many pregnant women. They don't have anyone to go to the door, they don't have a doctor, because the CDC doesn't hire, because he doesn't have a board. There's no bus to go buy food. We give them a bonus, but they didn't have a bus, and we took them to OSTH and the CAN to get a bus. We, the opposition, went there to help, because they are absent. I ask: has a New Democracy Member gone to solve a problem in his area? Do they care about the place? And the residents and the refugees care about them? Or are they just making politics? The same problem we have in the Diabetes. We have no way to move and fight with the residents in the nearby settlement for who will get on the bus. Then apparently the Golden Dawn is having a party. In the specific centre of the Diabetes we have three hundred and fifty children at a kindergarten with forty-five that the Ministry of Education refuses to send teachers, not even assistants. That's their choice. And we don't have basic medical support. Of course, we found in that three hundred unarmed center that went through the most sealed Evros, Mr. Georgiadis says. Your opinion of Evros would like to hear who it is. Very close to Vajori, Mr President, we have the incident in Brasna. When this happened - and I conclude, Mr President - I remembered the xenophobic and panic party held in the media in 2015 and 2016. I read and statements now of the State Secretary that we did not invite these people, illegally entering our country and want to impose their way of life. Members of Parliament, when listening on the other hand to speeches like the recent national anniversary in Thessaloniki that we are open to refugees, that we have overcome differences and peculiarities for the Jewish population of the city, which was part of the city, but also for the refugee, I think of one thing: How hypocrites can the citizens of New Democracy become? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] How hypocrites can you now be toward refugees? For then Mr Avramopoulos comes and says here in Parliament that the word 'fortress' was first used by Hitler. Yes, but the far-right rhetoric is heard by both the Prime Minister of the country and the ministers of that country. And we must overcome this for the benefit of our country, not to gain small-scale impressions, because on 16 October I did find Mr Mitsotakis speaking of the siege of European countries from the waves of refugees and immigrants, and on 22 September Mr Georgiadis saying that the image of boats is an invasion image. These were said by government ministers. We need to get through this, ladies and gentlemen. It is a mistake of the New Democracy that it has not taken the problem to the European level. The choices for closed centres and for re-progressions, the Samara choices, isolated Greece from the European debate. How will we claim fair sharing with European countries when we join the voices of Orban, Salvini and Kurts? Our country is losing its choice. Unfortunately, Mr President, I have no time to comment on the absence of consultation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u528	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u529	...reactions by organisations or serious issues of democracy. I want to say something to the Minister. Minister, we have no serious hope of changing policy and what regrets me is that above all, our country pays the bill with the mistakes you make. Everyone gets lost and all we can do with the refugee is create more and more problems. I hope at least that I described the tragic situation in the centers of my region to induce you to take at least a few measures. Perhaps so help both residents and refugees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u530	Thank you very much, Mr. Felle.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u531	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u532	Wait a minute, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u533	Thank you. And I, Mr. Femmelle, have no serious hopes that you can change politically. I wonder where he's so politically courageous, honestly. Maybe it's because of ignorance, maybe because of your perception of things, I don't know, but saying that people are deliberately staying on the islands to stack there, that was your policy. The stack was your policy. Of course, you did something else, you preached them all vulnerable and carried them here. And they will never return to their homelands, possibly those who will not get asylum. And you said something, and I hope that now that you hear it again, do not say it again. You said you went to the Diabetes, that you saw that there was a patrol car where it doesn't exist now. Yeah, I ordered the car to leave because the patrol car didn't do a job there. There is a liaison of an officer, who is exclusively involved in this center. Twice a week there are operations in the centre, and the police are there, because that is what the security rule requires. Keep something else in mind. Have you ever considered that this structure in Bajori, the other structure in the Diavatas has no legal status, why have you never bothered to introduce it? Well, please, I beg you to limit your political courage a little bit. Honestly you have a huge negative legacy that you inherited not in today's government in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u534	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Economou John from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u535	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u536	You're right. Wait a minute, Mr. Economou, please and I'm sorry. Here, Mr Famelle, you have the floor for a minute as much as I have given the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u537	Just a minute I just want to explain the word 'thrassos'. Mr. Chrysochoid, and I wonder what political courage is. Politics is to pick up the centre in Moria with six thousand and have it today at fifteen, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u538	Yeah, because that's...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u539	Because that's about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u540	You didn't like it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u541	Please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u542	Mr Chrysochide, if someone stacks human lives without carrying out their basic operational tasks and proves insufficient for the Deputy Minister of Defence to take over the issue of the management of refugee flows, you are, Mr Chrysochide, because the Prime Minister himself chose another minister to manage the issue of refugee flows. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And with regard to the issue of policemen in Diavata until 17 September, there were people inside a prison and not a on-board vehicle, who left and now have no one to address the people who are both inside and out of the center. That's a shortage, that's a nerve in our own language, the Macedonian, Mr. Chrysochoid. I hope you know it well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u543	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u544	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u545	You are still politically enthusiastic and unacceptable, because you are using the advisability of our neighbours, who are hostile to our country and are sending flows with unhappy people, and you are giving it to the government. That's a disgrace to you. It is a political shame that you are doing and contradicts what you have said previously that you are sensitive and protect people. I repeat, what you are doing is politically disgraceful!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u546	Mr. Economou from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u547	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no doubts in the world not far from where people live in tragic conditions, their lives are at risk, their dignity is humiliated, they are thrown away, they are deprived of essentials. These people, as long as the international community has failed, even with great hypocrisy, to try to improve their lives, to make them stand on their feet where they were born, they will no doubt seek the route to the land of the promise in Greece, Italy, Europe, not because of all the destinations of immigration, from all the options that they have been the closest either kilometres or their characteristics, nor because it is the richest or because it is easier to find a job here, but because they have incomparably better living conditions than where they were born here, here is the civilization, here is the western way of life that - apart from all the rest - ensures them and an environment suitable for them to be able to live, claim, try to live not only with their needs, but also with their desires as young couples. This great achievement of Europe, the West, but the western way of life did not happen, nor did it happen, ladies and gentlemen, in a vacuum of air. It is not a free plan for the West and for the western way of life that is an integral part of both our identity and our culture that here we have no censorship, no sacred examination, no extreme discrimination in sexes, that we have freedom of expression, that we do not criminalise sexual choice. It has been because there are rules, institutions, instruments for implementing them, rules and institutions that have kept the gains and enlightenment and the French Revolution and for the help of philosophers, rules and institutions that have brought very high in our worthy system, in Europe, in the western way of life the value of solidarity, humanism, integration, but all of this, coordinated with respect for the world that is being tested, but also with absolute realism for the limits of resistance of societies to demonstrate this humanism, which, when we despise them, are going to the other end by trying to show humanism and solidarity to all. We are actually creating conditions of impoverishment for the oppressed, and we are triggering extremist and dangerous phenomena in society. I say these, ladies and gentlemen, because exactly these challenges come the draft law to deal with. It comes to create a framework of rules, it comes to create a regulatory framework for implementing these rules to address these challenges. What's he doing? It speeds up the procedures, attaches great importance to the deadlines for not creating chaotic conditions, takes care and care to incorporate in care, education, employment, increasing border surveillance and, of course, attaches great importance to the need to return people who do not fulfil, do not have the profile, do not need international protection. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, except that it comes to dealing with a completely failed management, in my opinion, does two more very important things. What are these? First of all, it creates a framework based on rules of law, with rules of solidarity, with realism, a framework which enables not the Greek Government now, but in the Greek state to take up its share and yet above what is relevant to it in Europe - because we must also say so - in order to demonstrate its humanism, the humanism that the civilized world must show to tested people. In doing so, it shows to Greek society that it has properly measured things. It does not surprise, it applies justice rules, it applies rules to enable people who come here to find a better life to live with dignity. In this way, it deprives the far right-wing, fascists, racists, of the opportunity to sprinkle on the concerns and fears of Greek society, the possibility with cries and crowns and nonsense of poisoning public dialogue and public life. And that's very important. The second very important thing that this bill makes is that by giving our country the opportunity to create a framework that was missing on the one hand in a country which, on the other hand, does not recognise any more power than the one under International Law in a way that is the most effective deterrent. Because the procedures laid down in this bill, ladies and gentlemen, constitute a civilised state of the European Union, a civilised rule of law, a deterrent to those who imagine that even if they do not meet these standards that the law provides for those who are entitled to international protection, they will be discouraged in order to dare them in despair or in their desire to claim a better life to come to our country, as was the case with the previous situation. Only on these two very substantial issues, apart from the fact that all the administrative shortcomings of the previous situation are being addressed, are a bill worthwhile to vote for and allow it to apply to our country's regulatory framework. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u548	Thank you, too. Mr. Theophilos Xanthiopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA. The following is Mrs Sakorafa from Mera25 and then Mr. Andreas Xanthos from SYRIZA. You have five minutes at your disposal, Mr. Xanthopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u549	I will be in the short term as usual, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a bill which is emblematic about the country's current situation and the challenges it faces. First of all, I would like to point out the consultation, which lasted very little, was essentially a pretext, and it was not possible for this bill to be an opportunity for dialogue and reflection in the Greek society, so that it could be hampered with the concerns that currently perpetuate the country in relation to asylum. If I put a title in the bill, I would give him the title 'as soon as possible'. In the case of migrants and refugees coming to the country, as it places restrictions and problems in being able to take asylum, they will be able to join the asylum procedure. And back rapidly in relation to what was happening in our country so far recently and you are trying to change it in a dramatic and intact way. Does it really not affect you at all, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, the position of the Association of Administrative Judges, which constrains the basic provisions of the bill? Does the opposition of the international amnesty leave you chilly indifferent? What did Mrs Miyatovic, Commissioner for Human Rights of the European Union, say to you? Not all of this concerns you and bring in a bill, which has the features that have been analysed and which have been confronted by all the previous SYRIZA colleagues, and I do not want to insist that I do not tire this House and not waste my time? In this way, you stimulate conservative reflexes in society and push society into other adventures. The criticism that has been made is thorough and documented and we need to get into the essence of the problem. First of all, let us say this, so that all citizens can hear it: people who come to the country commit a simple crime, a flood, because they enter the country without legal documents. Let's not imagine they're some bad killers who have half the criminal code on their back. From the state of emergency, they are committing a simple flood. And, of course, the legal order of our country, which is at the heart of the countries of the European Union, wants to tell them all or the large part of them, precisely because they have committed a flood. This is not compatible with the principles of law, but with the principles which a Western European society must have. It looks panic. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you are acting on your ideological identity in three bastions, in the "father, religion, family", as proudly, multiplely and with a narrow voice you have declared to the National Representation, but where you are given this opportunity elsewhere. So I reverse the order and say to you: Let him be a father in either Sub-Saharan Africa or Syria, who has five children and cannot live in everyday life, has lost his three or four children from war, from poverty, from climate change, from whatever reason you want. And this man decides to save his family, his life to emigrate. What do you think? Do you think AMKA's shortage will repulse him from coming to Greece? Is it possible to compare his living conditions to what is not attributed to him so that he can in fact join? Secondly, you are talking about religion. I remind you, you who are viewed as transparent preachers, what Joseph says from Arimatha when he asks for Jesus ’ dead body. Have you thought about it? He says: “Give me the stranger, half the guardians who are half the deaths of a stranger.” Jesus Christ, that is, himself is identified as a foreigner. What does Jesus himself say? He says, "Knowledge to meet me." That is what you consider to be an elbow of your identity you do not recognize with the other person, who is the foreigner. Finally, I will say something about the country, which you have for a long time. And we have heard, in any case, about the country that you are patriots, while we are not so patriots. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will be very brief, Mr President. Municipal song is a great tradition of our identity. So, what's the song in the Arta's Yiofur? Remind me of the 15th syllable. So at the critical moment, he says: "If you do not haunt a man, you do not deprive a son-in-law and do not haunt an orphan, a foreigner, a non-reader, only the first-born woman." Do you understand, what is the importance of the "foreign" in our tradition? And you ignore that. And you bring a bill, which actually puts a barrier, takes them out and divides society into them and us. You don't give them AMCA, we give them the hand. You lock them in detention centers, we open and our homes, we open our neighborhoods. You do not send teachers to teach children in kindergartens, we enter solidarity structures and help these people join. The unknown baker of Ikaria - if I recall well - the Mytilini grandmothers, who care for babies, the refugee are the symbols with which we are struggling to respond to modern conditions. Together we will claim the change. Together we will combat the phobia of society. And I remind you of one. In all questions, the answer is one: man.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u550	Mrs Sophia Sakova has the floor from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u551	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law is essentially attempting to deregulation of the minimum permitted limits for the protection and guarantees of European law. In critical matters, the minimum limits of Union law are not guaranteed, while the application of critical provisions exposes the country to a immediate risk of being penalised by the European Court of Justice. The flows of refugees depend on specific geopolitical factors and are not treated with solutions like those of this bill. Today's bill is not about the management of the refugee and it certainly has nothing to do with international protection. Let me put forward a different view and approach. This bill aims, in particular, to regulate relations between the European Union and Turkey, however excessive this may sound. The interests of the Turkish oligarchy lead to a bar of claims to the European Union that shapes a continuous bazaar between the European Union and Turkey. The oligarchy of the European Union does not want to give Turkey what it wants, but without consequences. It always ceases at Greek expense, either with concessions to the Turkish claims to the Cyprus island or the Aegean Sea or, as today, with the unacceptable asylum bill. The European Union's dominant oligarchy does not want to absorb the refugee wave which is constantly growing due to the action of Turkish militarism in Syria and Kurdistan or the parafiscal economy of the trafficking industry, which is being put to the detriment of refugees within Turkey's territory. But he does not want to displease the best client of his industry's warfare, Turkey. We, as always, will pay the bill, reluctant to displease either the European Union or Turkey. We are afraid to force the European Union to do what is self-evident, to discipline the principles of international law and to oppose ergonomic militarism countermeasures and sanctions. Finally, we also want to satisfy the xenophobic European centres. Instead of giving refugees the proper travel documents, we are making it impossible to provide international protection for 80% of what they deserve. As a country we base our survival on the stricter interpretation of one of international law, as far as its territories and borders are concerned. International law, however, is a system that requires respect for its totality. His elastic latte application in relation to International Humanitarian Law will strip us of the same requirement of strict application in the future, as far as our continental or continental borders are concerned. We cannot understand what it is appropriate to impose, for example, the anti-humanist exemption from the category of vulnerable people suffering from post-traumatic stress from the shipwreck in Article 20. These people did not sail on a recreation cruise, but on a desperate journey to salvation. What is the purpose of the anti-humanist arrangements in Article 39(10), according to which when the applicant does not comply with the operating regulation of the centre of residence, will the material reception conditions be restricted or interrupted? I am referring to paragraph 10a. Or the extreme measure in paragraph 10b where if the applicant fails to comply with a decision to transpose it, the presumption that it does not wish to be subject to international protection shall be established. It is outrageous to adopt such positions that are contrary and directly contrary to Article 2(1) of the Constitution, according to which respect for human value is a primary obligation of the state. The value of man is not limited by race, color or religion and gives rights and choices to anyone who lives in a center, but also to the prisoner. So under Article 51, we are widely violating the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. We are punishing and publishing minors who neither the consciousness of their actions have the potential to oppose the will of their elders, excluding them from the right to join the primary and secondary education of the public education system. However, the contribution of minor refugees can be very important. Last year the Small National, the nursery of our National Theatre, gave a shocking performance on the drama of minor unaccompanied refugees, "The journey", a project that changed lives, involving actresses of the National, adolescent Greek and teenage refugees, some of them unaccompanied. After the vote on this bill, ladies and gentlemen, it will not be possible to play again. I give you the official program of the National Theatre and two of the dozen reviews of the project. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sophia Sakorafa, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What is the purpose of the anti-humanist regulation under Article 53, which abolishes the possibility of employment and gives this right only after a period of six months and provided that no decision on asylum has been taken to a first degree? Unfortunately, I do not have the time to refer to each of these difficult articles in the bill. The spirit and method of the bill is obvious and incomplete. You are showing as a value the reduction of the population of refugees and immigrants who are entitled or asylum seekers with the overall amendment of the reception procedures and the accumulation of procedural obstacles and the humiliation of the real beneficiaries. With this bill we train the Greek people in the direction of the humbler fears and syndromes. Finally, Mr President, the Golden Dawn is absent from the House, but its pursuits and xenophobic perceptions, instead of being stigmatized as barbarism, gain with the falsification of security institutional regularity. Minister, you are trying to justify the anti-humanist arrangements with the humble false question of security. So I would remind you of Thomas Jefferson's phrase: 'Those who sacrifice freedom for security are not worthy of either security or freedom'. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u552	Thank you too, Mrs. Sacorafa. Mr. Andreas Xanthos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u553	Ladies and gentlemen, the refugee issue was the great challenge, the great social and political issue that has affected all of Europe over the last decade, and it was, let me say, the great divisive part. On the basis of the perception of the refugee issue, a separating line was formed between a progressive and a conservative and, of course, often extreme right-wing line. The progressive approach said that refugee is a matter of respect for international law, respect for human rights, solidarity with the weak, decent health care, protection of public health. Conservative and extreme right-wing xenophobic, racist line said that the refugee is primarily a matter of security, it is a matter of preventing some unaltered, some outlaws, that it was a matter of dealing with a clear vine, that it was a matter of closed borders, that it was a question of a Europe fortress. This was the dominant line played by the political speech of the New Democracy over the past few years, in a toxic way, in an extremist folklore and demagogic manner. He trained a large part of society, mayors, adolescents, district rulers, local executives, MPs - we heard him here today - with this misery of the term "loverocracy" and "loverocrats". Mercy with that rhetoric! There are no smugglers! Finally! There are only goods that are smuggled. And there is a need for respect and treatment, based on rules, rights and international obligations. Allow me to say that in this critical dividing line, in this dividing section concerning all the societies, all the countries and all the political systems of Europe, our country at the peak, in the peak of the refugee crisis, because it was precisely in the governance of the country, SYRIZA, a force of the radical Left, with a culture of solidarity towards the weak, with a culture of respect for rights, which is why it was on the right side. We have shot a wave of humanity and solidarity. We worked with local communities. We collaborated with the most sensitive and truly altruistic part of Greek society. We gave lessons of dignity. We have proved that a country which is bankrupt, in an austerity programme, can, if it has the right political and social priorities, face with dignity and respect this great threat. In addition to the many things that have been said about prevention culture, exclusions, difficulties, obstacles to asylum etc., to create an extensive area of detention and deprivation of freedoms, the bill also has the logic of barriers to access to medical care. That is quite clear. It is an area that, let me say, has been a huge effort in the past few years and we have not allowed the refugee problem to be turned into a public health problem, because we have also had the knowledge of the field, we have had the sensitivity, we have had the perception of universal vaccination, we have had the perception of measures to prevent and protect public health. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We worked with reliable non-governmental organisations. We organized the state presence. We have developed European programmes in an excellent way, with 98% absorption of the ISF programme and AMIF, PHILOS I, PHILOS II, which is outdated. We have shielded health and hospitality centres, but also neighbouring public structures, and we have ensured that refugee care is part of a logic in the single line of universal coverage. That is the question, and that is the question. AMKA's access is abolished, which was a quick way, an easy way, where within two to three hours first, these people on the islands were receiving AMKA and those who had chronic illnesses, those who had serious illnesses, those who needed their children to be vaccinated, could very quickly have this care. The FYROM was built for another target population. It was permanently inhabited migrants without legal documents in the country. This was the population - target, it was not refugees and asylum seekers. I think the real dilemma is obviously not between AMKA or the FYROM, the Alland Health Care Card. Dilemma is universal health coverage or not. Prosper access to the public health system or not. We, it is clear, are responding that this is the crucial issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u554	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u555	I'll be done. Because I have also heard the Prime Minister speak of ‘substantial vulnerability by suspicious NGOs’. Let's get this straight. Firstly, the case of post-traumatic stress is a criterion that is taken into account together with many others, with a special protocol drawn up by scientists, based on the guidelines and the WHO and the International Organisation for Migration, in order to take account of the vulnerability. It's not the post-traumatic stress, which is, of course, a medical entity, there's an ICD-10 system. He's got a symptomology, he's got a gravity rating. That's not an invention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u556	Please complete. You're out of your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u557	Let's clear up the issue of fragility. Firstly, the vulnerability does not entail the granting of asylum. The vulnerability implies the removal of the geographical restriction and the possibility of moving these people in the inland and of course support measures, relief measures, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u558	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u559	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you very much. So we do not need a logic of closed borders, we do not need any obstacles, we do not need any discounts on rights and on care. What we need is respect for human needs, for people who are afflicted, persecuted by hunger, poverty and war. We need humanitarian management, solidarity, inclusion policies and social inclusion. That's what we need. And that is not a matter of personal sensitivity. It is a matter of policy, and that is our difference.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u560	Thank you very much. I don't see Mr. Barka in the Chamber. So we'll give the floor to Mr. Haritsi. Mrs Skoufa will be followed by Mrs Christidou. Here, Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u561	Ladies and gentlemen, this refugee bill is an assumption of the Government's total failure to manage this thorny issue. This failure is now acknowledged by everyone. Even the media - which no one says and hostile to the current government - recognises that there is a problem here. It is a problem that, in my opinion, results to a great deal from the attitude it has taken, from the way the New Democracy dealt with the issue of refugee and migration flows, especially since the summer of 2015. I do not even want to refer to previous times, at times when the then Prime Minister, Mr Samaras, was talking about smugglers, talking about refugees as second-class people and presenting Athens as a occupied city by foreigners. But I cannot remember the populist delinquency served by the so-called liberal New Democracy since the summer of 2015, when thousands of people, persecuted by war and hunger, crossed the border and sought protection on European soil. Then there was no war, there was no ISIS, there was no European policy on refugee. There was only one thing: the enormous responsibilities of the SYRIZA government, which invited the refugees to Greece. Simple as that! And since it was so simple, it would be a simple solution. The New Democracy in the government would not invite the refugees. It would apply another policy and would therefore suddenly solve the problem. The mythical, ethnocentric and micropolitical perceptions of the New Democracy refer to the one who sees the tree but loses the forest. Because the forest - what we all see - refers to self-evident. One region of the planet is falling apart, borders are rejoicing, geopolitical balances are overthrown, millions of people are moving. But of course for the New Democracy of 2015-2019 all these were details. The main was SYRIZA. Today that the New Democracy is eloquently heading for four months of government service finds out that this is no longer exactly how things are and not just that. It discovers that her nationalist promise of a definitive solution to the refugee - which, of course, closed the eye and the extreme right, as how each imagined this definitive solution was accepted by too many interpretations - is completely indestructive and contrasts with international organisations and international law, isolates the country, causes tensions within our society. And as this government is used to when it feels that something is wrong, it resorts to the oldest trick in the book of the old political system. He's tabling a bill claiming that this will solve all the problems. And what's he telling us today? That we have a bill here that brings the codification of procedures and therefore the administrative resolution and political settlement of the matter. We have also seen this same logic in the 'Extreme State'. We also saw it in the development bill. Words are handed over to invest positive results in the opposite direction, namely in the inefficient state, in the country's anti-development perspective, and today in what we are discussing, in a codification that is simple, the deterrence and repression of asylum seekers. I do not know whether the New Democracy MPs have heard or read the positions of international organisations pointing to two main things. The first concerns the general dubiousness of the bill, which involves overlaping of provisions and legal errors, which lead to gaps in interpretation. And the second and most substantial, the circumvention of the asylum procedure and the rules of international law. I could mention many examples of this. Much of all Parliament's wings have already been said. But I will choose to summarise through a specialist's words. He says, therefore, Mr Masimo Morati, research director at the European Regional Office in Amnesty International: 'The proposed amendments give rise to considerable weight for asylum seekers. They seek to speed up asylum procedures, sacrificing the right of applicants/applicants to examine their requests appropriately and uphold obstacles to their lives in Greece, in violation of European and international human rights standards, which are binding on the country." Because I have heard a lot talk about the New Democracy MPs, about the rule of law, etc., are you really proud of these words of the representatives of the international organizations? Do you want a Greece that violates the bindings of the same European and international human rights standards? Is this the Liberal New Democracy, the party that praises European values, the same time that it chooses to go as a apprentice in the footsteps of authoritarian and xenophobic Orban policies? Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, your policy leads the country to isolation. You also tried to do so with the Ambassadors' agreement. You tried to do this with the disaster for the period 2015-2019. You tried to do so by closing the eye on the far right. Today you are moving a step further. On the one hand, with the clear abolition of basic rules of refugee law, you are driving the country into international isolation and, on the other, with the administrative inadequacy and unprecedented inefficiency, you are leading to tensions within the country and to the worsening of conditions of refugee hospitality. You are a trapped government between the inertia's embarrassment, the weakness of management, the populist promises and inner-party contradictions. Trapped between the illusions that you have cultivated in the election and the real dimensions of a complex and sensitive issue, which is unable to deal with the "Extreme State" of Mr. Mitsotakis. Even now, at the last minute, we are calling on you to deal with reality. The refugee question is not resolved with moves of impression. It is treated through its internationalisation. It is dealt with through respect for the rules of international law. It is addressed through an effective management plan, a plan aimed at rationalising the distribution of refugees on the ground, decongestion of the islands and the launching of integration and integration procedures for those who deserve it. A plan, that is, what it has attempted and managed to implement in recent years the SYRIZA government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u562	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u563	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u564	Thank you very much. I don't see Mr. Giannoulis either. That's why I said that then Mrs Elizabeth Scoofa will talk from SYRIZA. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u565	First of all, I would like to start with an observation. Seeing the list of speakers, it is a terrible impression that the deafening silence, unfortunately, of the Members of Parliament and Members of the KIC and of the KINAL Members. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people cannot understand why the New Democracy Government has abolished the Ministry of Migration Policy and all the responsibilities of the Ministry in question you assigned them to the Ministry of Civil Protection. Really, who do you want to protect the citizens from? Is it from the ‘lucky immigrants’ and ‘lucky immigrants’? The Greek people cannot understand why you want to nurture the new generations, watering them with the poison of xenophobia. He cannot understand why you yourself have not been sufficiently and fundamentally nurtured with the universal values of respect for human life, solidarity and love, unpredictable love for neighbor, whoever he is. The new generation cannot understand why it should be faced with the classmate in the school class, the one with dark color or the one with the slit eyes as a "broken" and should be wondering what category it belongs to, according to the furnished separation between the immigrant and refugee. Why should he feel fear in his face, be tampered with by a wrong idea of blind nationalism. Why should he not oppose the hand of this classmate, the Roma, Syros, from Somalia, from Denmark? The young students and students, these inappropriate and pure souls, will think about the refugee, the immigrant, what his parents may and may not have all the legal residence documents in the country, what may have been born in a FYT or where a wonderful man obstetrician brought it into the world in Greece, so they will think, for this classmate or classmate that he has needs, that he may have a good or difficult character, that he is or is not a good student, that he is or is not good in the company. However, the only thing that the Greeks will not think about is whether this classmate comes from a safe country. And what is, really, these safe countries? And who can safely define safe countries? And who, really, leaves his home and life like this because he smoked him? Are they all around the world well burned? Aren't there any shampoos and suffering countries? Are there no countries where terrible regimes are suppressing the laws of the people? Are there no war countries, civils and children on a daily basis forced to live in constant fear of their lives? Have you heard, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, about the so-called resignation syndrome, which children of refugees and immigrants especially have? That syndrome, in other words, during which the kid completely loses interest in life, loses his appetite, can sit for hours of real estate and which, according to doctors’ advice, cannot be detected, because patients do not have underlying physical or neurological abnormalities. How do you ask for the vulnerability of a justified judgement about the rate of anatomic damage, since there are diseases that are undetectable physically? Why did you withdraw from the independent appeal committees the member appointed by the UNHCR? Did the representative of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees in Greece make a negative statement about the bill, saying, for example, that the proposed changes would jeopardise people in need of international protection? Is it because the High Commissioner is concerned about the fact that unaccompanied children and other vulnerable asylum seekers will be dealt with in rapid procedures? Or is it because the High Commissioner is also concerned that the new law introduces extensive provisions on the general detention of asylum seekers, increasing the maximum period of detention from three to eighteen months plus eighteen, a total of thirty-six, or three years of detention? Have you really made all the necessary structures to claim the recognised refugees to leave the hospitality structures within two months? Is there a concrete planning by the government for them and for the required integration programmes? Ladies and gentlemen, the refugee - immigration is not going to be solved by turning the whole country into a vast Guantánamo. Instead of looking for modern crucifixed and scapegoats, instead of looking for science fiction of the Star Trek beings, such as 'broken immigrants' and 'broken immigrants', let us do everything possible to make our country a modern, European rule of law with peace, justice, respect for international conventions at all levels and levels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u566	Thank you, too. Mrs. Rallia Christidou has the floor from SYRIZA. Then there is Mr Miltiadis Chrysomalis from New Democracy and then Mr. Avramakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u567	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we all remember that the New Democracy election campaign, in order to reach power, was based on the so-called national issues in two key pillars, namely the Ambassadors' Agreement and the refugee question. In the agreement, too, the tragic mistake of the opposition at the time and the current government has already appeared, but unfortunately the dangerous election crowns also have their consequences in the management of the refugee. This bill is coming to confirm precisely this negative finding. What did the New Democracy say in an election, in order to mock ears, far-right and not just, in order to vote on it? What did he say? He said that the administration of the refugee by the SYRIZA Government was unorganised, sloppy, the borders were not sufficiently guarded, especially the maritime borders and asked for the vote of our compatriots, in order to house the refugee, to alleviate and organize the camps and so on. So, let's see now who the dangerous ones are, who the unorganized ones are and who the unrelated ones are. It is simply because, ladies and gentlemen, the irresponsibility of the New Democracy is not only that it promised things that it did not know whether it could implement, but above all that it gave space to reactionary voices in society in such a way that it could turn against refugees and immigrants and their reception as an unhypocritical position, without any excuse. And because international developments unfortunately do not go according to the easy rhetoric of the internal political scene, the flows did not stop with the election of the New Democracy and its rise in power, on the contrary. So, then, the New Democracy, faced for the first time with the harsh reality, a reality that has to be managed contrary to what it said in the election, and in its efforts at last to understand the intensity of the problem and, more importantly, to decide how to manage the political cost to a portion of society that she had risen up in election, what has she chosen to do? Not doing anything, not taking any initiative. He chose to let the problem grow. While it had made the Moria flag, since July by five and a half thousand people in Moria today it has come to have more than fifteen thousand people there, so there is a chaos in the area. It's unacceptable that Moria was allowed to reach this point. It is unacceptable that you have let human lives be lost in order to decide to do something, to mobilize yourself. The decongestion that began at the end of August what did he do? He sent people to informal hospitality structures made with scenes, such as New Kavala and Corinth, without being secured to the minimum decent living conditions and without of course having any prospect of becoming more bearable. And yet the winter is here. The situation we are facing today is the result of the government's political choice immediately after the elections to abolish the Ministry of Migration Policy and put it under the Ministry of Civil Protection. These spasmodic movements turned the refugee from an international and European problem into Greek alone. Treatment of the issue as a Greek-Turkish issue, as a matter of security and foreign invasion, harms the country, as it gives our partners and especially the most reluctant ones, such as in the Visegrad countries, the alibi they need to avoid being right about their obligations. This is primarily a European issue and the government is trying to turn it into a bilateral immigration issue, intervening in the essence of people's rights for political and communication reasons that do not really benefit anyone. The concept of vulnerability becomes more stringent. Asylum seekers will have to deal with a more conspicuous procedure that, if they do not, is automatically outside the process. They will no longer be granted AMCA, they will no longer have access to all health services, but only to some. We have to draw up lists of safe third countries and countries of origin, lists of which we are very concerned about the criteria to be drawn up, that is, fast track procedures that violate basic principles of the Geneva Convention. An article on the detention of asylum seekers is analyzed. Close temporary reception structures are being created. It also appears from the bill that asylum seekers will be used to be detained for eighteen months, i.e. the exceptionally long time limit for detention, which will allow them to reach thirty-six. They will not have the right to work and, of course, only education is provided for minor asylum seekers, instead of minor citizens from third countries. We ask you: What is the benefit of the Greek state? Where is the Greek citizen served by these choices? Neither money saves nor achieves any more security. Then why? To discourage people from making this long journey? But we know very well that these people are war refugees, they are desperate people, whatever happens no one can stop them. I think that the main reason - and I am closing down, Mr President - is that it led the government and the evacuation of occupations by families and children some time ago in Exarcheus: Communications and very simply internal consumption. And polarization, the right-wing populist rhetoric that has been adopted and electionally in refugee cannot now turn into realistic political management of such a difficult and multifaceted problem. We therefore express our complete opposition to these political options. Let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that the Greek people who have often referred from all sides...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u568	Madam Colleague, and that's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u569	I shall conclude, Mr President. He first recognized the misfortune of war. Let us not forget our grandparents and grandparents who left Asia Minor leaving livelihoods and property and walked from months to years to years to reach Greece. They started out from there whole families and died on the street until they got here. Above all, remember that fear and hatred for man doesn't make you patriot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u570	Thank you, too. Mr Miltiadis Chrysomalis from the New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u571	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about one of the biggest or the biggest problem facing the country, the refugee - immigration. While one would expect to hear a serious criticism of the Opposition, finally what is observed is what the Minister said earlier, a massive political atrocities. Is that possible? In three months, in a hundred days that this government is ruling, has the refugee - immigration problem become the main problem? You have created it, gentlemen, four and a half years that you have ruled and created it with your ideas and the policy you have implemented, because the truth is that the war has existed since 2012 and the flows have existed since 2012, only then were they controlled, because there was a serious, firm policy on the matter and the flows have been fully controlled. They all knew that they would not find what your own policy called 'Come on, make yourself sick and disappear', i.e. come to Europe. You have not calculated this: that Europe has closed the border and not only has we been closed down, Mr Janakopoulos, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u572	Europe has not closed the borders.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u573	Mr. Janakopoulos, please. Do not address Mr. Janakopoulos, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u574	...with the intelligence of your then co-government, Mr. Kammenos, that you will send jihadists to Europe now began to see us very devastatingly and began to draw us together very seriously so that we are now in Greece a store of souls. That is the problem that we inherited from you, and this problem must be managed, with seventy thousand asylum applications pending and we do not know at this time in the country who is, where he is, where he wants to go. This bill comes to solve this particular problem, to make us a normal country again, a country that will have a serious immigration policy, because - badly lies - no country has ever been in the world without a serious immigration policy: the United States, Canada, Australia. Even the countries created by their colonists, because they were colonies like the United Kingdom, always check who will come and where they will go. That means a serious state, that means a favoured state. You know, gentlemen of the Left, I hear all day just trying to teach us lessons of humanism, as if you had the privilege of humanism. Have you forgotten about the mud of Iward? Did you forget Moria and snow? That's exactly where the humanism of the Left drowned. You create with this tactic in Europe all of what you are supposed to call - and some are - far-right movements. You seem to forget the example of Umbria, an area of Italy that for sixty years has been the left-wing bulwark of the Salvini - Berlusconi with 57% pre-fronted migration, because people have real problems and feel the refugee - immigration as a problem. Those who give solutions, people applaud them and solutions eventually do not give the Left, it appeared in our country too. With this bill, there is now a serious policy to separate the refugee from the illegal immigrants. And because I have heard many colleagues on the left saying that there is no illegal immigrant, yes, there is no smuggling man, there is a smuggler, as there is a smuggler reader and a smuggler. So it is good at the moment to discuss seriously how to solve a problem that is created by you, but all citizens, regardless of what range they are in, need a solution because it causes them great problems in everyday life and in society. You were shouting, gentlemen, if it wasn't for an air condition in Ammondaleza, and what did you do with your policy? Call the whole society for your policy. This bill is coming today to give real solutions and to give the message that we are no longer an attraction for each immigrant. And, apparently, because you too know that you are solidating any opposition tactics, the only argument we have been hearing all day is what? "Why did the Ministry of Migration Policy go to the Ministry of Public Order?" Is that what you're worried about? Or does that create a strategic deadlock for you? Why do I understand - I have heard it from the speech of your President, Mr Tsipras - it is very difficult to say about Mr Kumucasco or Mr Chrysochide who is here supposedly doing so with this right-wing immigration policy and you have used to talk about LAOS, about Voridis and I do not know who else, when you have colluded with Mr Kammenos. Finally, the country will give a solution to this problem, the government will restore normality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u575	Thank you, too. To put a class here now. Mr Avramakis will now be given the floor from SYRIZA and because I do not see Mr Gülekas if he does not come, Mrs Fotiou will be given the floor and then Mr Melas will take the floor. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for five whole minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u576	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, we welcome you in fact and in regularity. After your obediential transformations and your unrelenting cynicisms in the major issues that have dealt with and dealt with the Greek society, issues that were top of the election agenda and have effectively defined the election result, today you are coming to accept the reality and admit indirectly but clearly that either you have made a mistaken assessment of things and situations or you have consciously lied to the Greek people and with a profoundly hypocritical attitude you have mocked him and kept his vote. I am referring to the issues of the Macedonian and the Prespecies Agreement, but also to the refugee - immigration, where other things you were calling pre-election and other things you did post-elections. In the Macedonian complaint, you mocked and fought the Prespecies Agreement, and today you come to tell us that you respect it, respect it and honor it. And in the refugee, while you were electorally saying that the mismanagement of the SYRIZA government is responsible, today you accept that it was geopolitical. Because you are taking the view that the people have decided and given you a clear command of governance, I tell you that if the people knew your real intentions, they would not give you this mandate. The refugee - immigration - is a serious and real problem that concerns the Greek society. Its management is difficult and requires handling to ensure that international law, human rights and international protection are guaranteed under the Geneva Convention and European directives. With regard to the bill under discussion, you have created a body of problems in local communities in an attempt first to be consistent with your election positions that SYRIZA and not war is the cause of the great refugee flows. You abolished the Ministry of Migration Policy, incorporating the relevant responsibilities and responsibilities into the Ministry of Civil Protection and sending the message inside and outside the country that this is a matter of security and repression. You have baptized the refugee immigration, you have adopted the rhetoric of the far right almost all of your positions on the refugee flows, you have referred to the policy of America a hundred years ago, you have paralleled the current situation with the Persians and the battle of Salamis, you have involved in the whole management of the CSCE, trying to show that the issue is better border control and now you are faced with the consequences of all those you have supported and supported. Reactions in various regions of the country are basically from your executives telling you everything you have been told in the election. In fact, the escalation of the reactions, the peculiar division you are cultivating will have much worse consequences than some resolutions and complaints. You still refuse today to continue the SYRIZA government's policy that claimed that the problem is European and not national. You are in line with the Visegrad countries and especially Orban, whose arguments you are using. Can anyone really explain why the New Democracy prefers to keep refugees in Greece instead of being allocated to all the countries of Europe, including Hungary? Is the common European policy in the management of refugee flows in our country or is it not in the interests of our country? Is it, or is it not in the country's interest, the common European asylum system which provides, inter alia, for the rules for the allocation of refugee populations? Why do you not move in this direction, but do you instead form a framework of refusal of asylum performance even for trivial reasons? Truly, who serves the effort of people who meet the Geneva criteria as beneficiaries of international protection to be regarded as massly illegal immigrants? Does it serve Greece to host them in closed detention centres for an unknown period of practical notice or to strengthen the arguments of those European states that refuse to accept refugees by calling them detained immigrants? You are limiting the opportunities for accessing public services and education to these people, in fact depriving them of basic rights. You commit and you will bind personnel of the Hellenic Police and the Armed Forces by entrusting them with responsibilities that do not correspond to the nature of their mission. You assign them tasks for which they have not been trained, such as an interview to examine an asylum request, obviously keeping closed detention centres and others. It is not right to surprise the local communities - Mr Minister, we have discussed this with each other - and there must be consultation with the local communities on the government's intentions to allocate to mainland Greece and within the country. In the Serres Prefecture, one of the first counties to receive refugees, and until now there have been neither problems nor reactions from local society, you have even caused resolutions from the majority of the municipal council, which is part of the New Democracy, characterised by an excessive rhetoric similar to the government's election rhetoric. The Serb people are proud and dignified, they have shown their solidarity and I am sure they will continue to do so. It has particular sensitivities in refugees, because Greek refugees are a large part of the local society. But you do not want to talk about refugees. You want to produce various stereotypes for violating immigrants, which you will keep incarcerated, without proper health care, without rights and cultivate fears in local communities. You have worked on the refugee pre-election, and now you have to deal with problems that you yourself have created. Your attempt, as reflected in this bill, is doomed to fail, because it is an attempt to satisfy the most fearsome syndromes in society and increase the risk factors. You are not putting the issue on the right European dimension and you are keeping an eye on third-party initiatives such as Turkey that blackmails the European Union, which eventually reacts by meeting Erdogan's deepest review goals. The ease with which international public opinion accepts the invention of the safe zone in Syria is only the beginning. Apart from US and Russia's competition, Erdogan's management of the world community and Germany's study to take a stand in favour of the creation of this zone without even being consulted shows that the international community is ready to face Erdogan's aggression and unforeseenness. The question, of course, is why Greece is not reacting. In Syria we have the direct question of the Losan Treaty, namely Turkey's borders. Turkey has invaded Syria and Russia with the USA is negotiating this invasion with Turkey. Greece is a central objective of Turkey's reform policy and must take initiatives against this policy. In order to be credible, however, and not to be empty in the statements on international law and international treaties, it must first and foremost ensure that everything is fully respected and not just those that are foreseen, whether it is the Geneva Convention and human rights, or the Ambassadors' agreement, or any treaty which binds the country. In closing, and because mistaken impressions have been created, I would like to say that Serres Prefecture has been inhabited for decades by refugees and we know very well from our grandparents and grandparents what refuge means, what war means and what it means to abandon everything in order to save your family and your children. Serres Prefecture is perhaps the poorest county in the country and all it seems to be currently employing the government is how many refugees it will host there. The needs of the people in the region are too many, but humanity and solidarity shown by its people at every opportunity are great. The government has to understand that problems are not solved in remote windows, but through proper and clear planning. Today's bill, like others that have precedented, is characterized by haste, curiosity and not respond to the problems, but only responds to specific party commitments. We say 'no' to xenophobia and racism, 'yes' to solidarity with refugees and an equal distribution of them within the country and in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u577	Thank you. Mrs Theanos Fotou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u578	Ladies and gentlemen, the ministers and Members of the New Democracy are trying to convince public opinion all day, the Greek people, that this huge problem that is evolving in a bomb in the hands of the New Democracy will be solved by mere surgical interventions, which will result in the highest number of refugees in migrants who do not need asylum and will be returned. That's the whole story today. But this objective, which you do not believe will be achieved either, because you are not so naive, is difficult to achieve. You know this is difficult to achieve, but you are just doing it to satisfy your extreme right wing that has produced all day here and so that you can justify the election xenophobic poison that you soared in Greek society and now you are reaping its fruits. It is necessary for you to justify your Vaterlo of Government within four months. Of course, this objective does not make up for minor refugees. Talks about minor refugees have been shortened. But let's see what you did. Here we are in front of a shameful alchemy. You are baptizing under 15 children and over 15 years of age adults. So incorporate more than 15 years into the adult arrangements to be classified as migrants from safe countries and to be returned. How did you discover the shocking limit of 15 years, Minister? What scientific method? Let me tell you. With the statistics of the EPC, the National Centre for Social Solidarity. Why? Because 93% of unaccompanied minors are over fifteen years old. Shame on you. So all unaccompanied minors join the adult category. That's the finding. Well done, then, because children are not immigrants or refugees. They're children and they need protection. But that's not enough, you're doing a second alchemy. You are not referring anywhere to Law 4554/2018 for the commission of unaccompanied minors. This is the law, with five joint ministerial decisions. Look at him! We voted for him in 2018. The FDAs were taken off in June 2019 and earlier. They're all practicing. If the MSFs are not implemented, the committee law shall not apply. It is the only legislative framework for which the country has been congratulated. Do you know when the NSAs open? December 31st. Do you know what that means? That in the end you'll make him inactive. That's what you're trying to do. Here we are, and we'll see about that. The problem of unaccompanied minors is not solved with the vaginas of age. It's hard. In 2015, the country was completely unprepared. He had no structures, he had no legislative framework, not what we are giving you today - to unaccompanied minors at all times. In February 2015, we received three hundred eighty hosting places for unaccompanied minors. Until June 2019, according to EKKA data, we created two thousand two hundred fifty available places in guesthouses, in safezone, in apartments, in subsistence accommodations, in hotels. In June 2019, shortly before you came to power, we had placed two thousand children in these structures, Minister, and we had eight hundred sixty-one children and had scheduled and predicted two hundred new places in hotels, one hundred and fifty-eight seats in guesthouses, fifty places in apartments. Look at the evidence of the EKKA. Those who were adults would be covered in the ESTIA programme, that is, we left you a problem manageable. What did you do in four months? Within four months of a failure - in fact - to three, because the figures I have are in October 2019 - and the Mitsotakis Government's failure, the number to be settled is one thousand seven hundred ninety-two, that is more than double. Now, because you can't manage it, you invent the 15 - year - old adults. Remove these shameful arrangements for unaccompanied people who expose us internationally. Bend with caution and seriousness on these tortured adolescents of wars and deprivations.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u579	Thank you very much. Mr.Ioannis Melas from New Democracy has the floor and Mr. Constantine Boubas is prepared from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u580	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the refugee issue has been high in the past few weeks. The refugee issue is both a national and a European issue. Our country, because of its position on the map, has the misfortune and at the same time the great responsibility, which may not be the case for us, to be at the forefront of Europe's defence against both the refugee flows from the war zones and the illegal immigrants who exploit the situation and illegally pierce in Greece in order for them to be baptized. At this point I would like to make a reference to the article tabled this morning by Mr Psychoyos. Phillip Leclerk, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees in Greece, wrote it. Mr Psychoyos said in the morning a paragraph, a feature of this article, which reads: 'The majority of them are from countries which have been hit by the war'. The great majority of them, Mr Psychoyer, on the basis of the data provided by the Asylum Service, are that those from the war zones have in the past six hundred and eighty-eighty ninety-eight in the two and fifty-two thousand six hundred forty-three applications for asylum. Is that what it means? That's not their big majority. It's the minority. And you did this in order to present this article, because you want to serve the policy you want to present. What do you want to do? You want to baptize them all legal, all refugees. They're not all legal, they're not all refugees. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] We in the New Democracy cannot baptise them all legal, all refugees. We're not priests to do that and we're taking steps to separate them and classify each one of them where it belongs. The New Democracy Government has taken several initiatives since the first time with intervention by the Prime Minister himself to address the serious issue of the refugee question. Today we have another initiative, the bill under discussion. With the arrangements and modifications it brings to the asylum procedure, it will give impetus to the suffocating centres filled with refugee reception and registration, especially the islands of the eastern Aegean. As for your sensitivity to human lives, to the thousands of people and the unaccompanied children, who have so much mentioned in this Chamber - and the 'great' we return to you, Mrs Fotio - I would remind you that you have booked them in places that remind us of prisons, not us. You are confined to words, because in actions other than those you have shown. Within three years of the implementation of the Joint Declaration of the European Union with Turkey, you have only returned a thousand eight hundred six. In these three years, asylum applications rejected are thirty-seven thousand sixty-seven-seven-seven-six, on the basis of official data from the Asylum Service, I repeat. The questions put here are two: Who is responsible for all these illegal immigrants - because they are illegal immigrants - were not brought back to Turkey? The thousands of illegal immigrants who entered our country and were found not to fulfil the conditions for asylum and did not see to it that they were retreated into Turkey, where they are? When you left, where are all of them? Conclusion: the country had no policy on the immigration - refugee issue. The management system was non-existent, with an unknown number of illegally resident in the country, with a border -'sunter', without basic infrastructure and technological tools for managing marine flows, with people vulnerable to criminal organisations being made a raid. We are proud and admire Giannis Antetokunbo. We burned down the girl who lifted the Greek flag. We want those who are legal, but at the same time we also have to preserve our society, to preserve the state of phenomena, as they were - if you remember - the murder of Manos Kadaris by three Afghans, when he was going to take a picture of his child born in the maternity hospital. Do you not want to protect our society from people who cause such events? I imagine you want it, but you do not show it either with your actions or with your policy. Ladies and gentlemen, the numbers and images are not lying. Your policies brought thousands of people stacked in the Immigration and Identification Centers. Thousands of illegal immigrants have disappeared, we've lost them. EUR 1,041 billion was allocated to Greece for the management of the refugee. Seventeen non-governmental organisations and international organisations received the sum of EUR 650 million for the management of the refugee. Result? Zero. You have turned the country into an endless hot spot for immigrants and trafficker networks. The message of the new government, the Government of New Democracy, to all those who move human lives and exploit these people, both within and outside the borders, is one: the 'part' is over! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u581	Thank you, too. We're on the number fifty-seven of the list of registered speakers and we've got very few deletions. So please keep the five-minute. Mr. Boobas Konstantinos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u582	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u583	There's no point, Mrs. Fotio. I'm here, I hear, I judge, and I compare. There's nothing. Mr. Boobas has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u584	Thank you, Mr President. And it is certainly the Members of Parliament who are independent of Greece, because the MPs are personalities, they are entities and the people who have elected them by voting to know their positions, to understand them. It is good that we are given more time and have no misuse of time, between parliamentary representatives and government officials. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, because this is certainly a very serious matter, not to play with the words philanthropist, pacifist, humanist, nationalist. This is a mixture, a mixture that we hope will not get explosives out of here. It is not just that we need to listen to local societies about the issue of all the people who come, because we do not know what the mixture will be. In other words, for example, the people who come here are different religious and ideological beliefs, they are Sunni, Shia, Jazidi, aleviates. These people cannot live together either, and it will be good to separate them, because we do not know when we hear about clearing up accounts that they are also different ideological beliefs. For example, as my fellow Member, in Serres, has said, the Yazidi is of an Iranian origin, an Indian, is an ethnic group of this particular ideological concept, which may be at risk from the Sunni and Shia, because Turkey still consists of seventy-two different tribes. I mean, then, that this is a alloy, it's a puzzle, it's a mosaic. To me, SYRIZA's politics, but also the New Democracy, which I will explain, reminds me of those old buses that anyone who asks to go up and hang out of the windows. That's what's going on. You remember some old buses mostly in Asian countries. It's a policy. Because SYRIZA must also know what happened in Marrakesh in 2016, as a moving pact signed by Greece - it is not binding because it was violated by too many states. It was impossible for this movement pact to move, because Turkey was known to violate it, we also had the attempted coup, the subject of visas and all that you know. Now we're going to the point. First of all, Minister, I am glad that you are here because I personally and the Greek Solution, I would like you to give me some explanation. This project is not of Greek interest and the Greek people must be informed. It's German interests. So I walked in and read what the Interior Minister, Mr Zeehofer, says, who is a man of what he says? First of all, a few hours ago, a meeting was held between the Ministers of the Interior of Italy, Spain, France, Germany and Poland. Where was Greece? Greece is not the first country to accept these inputs? We shouldn't be ashamed, Illegal immigrants are. Like the hunter who hunts in an area and destroys the fauna, what do we call it? That he's a hunter who's breaking the rules? He's a poacher. Where was Greece? He was Mr Avramopoulos as Commissioner for Immigration Policy Home Affairs and Citizenship, who said that Mr Zehofer has a practical mind. Now listen to what Deutsche Welle says today. The people who will get asylum in Greece do not get permanent asylum, but will permanently stay in Greece. Now notice the trap: Those who do not need asylum, FRONTEX itself will see to it that it turns them back. Be careful now, however, we will have a preliminary examination of the right to asylum, they will then be promoted in European countries in central Europe - and especially in Germany - if they so wish and willing to accept them. In other words, Greece will give them an asylum which will be temporary. Why, what does the Zehhofer plan say? That the final asylum will not be granted to Greece, will be given to Germany. Do you understand what we are doing, ladies and gentlemen, to inform the Greek people as well? This project is German interests brought by the New Democracy, because the definitive asylum in Germany will not be granted to Greece, and if Germany wishes to take them, otherwise they will be permanently resident in Greece, they cannot go anywhere else. Germany is also speeding up the procedures, as it will have the presidency in the second half of 2020. This is what Mr Zehhofer wants to pass, where he did not invite Greece, and from what I know there were some meetings with people on this subject. Mr Avramopoulos describes him as a practical mind, but he is purely German interests. So an explanation must be given precisely at this second stage of the process where we will have the final decision on asylum, please. Why is Mr. Zehhofer saying what? To abolish the Dublin Regulation. Yes, although the external borders, namely Greece, are going to the border, but in fact Greece is actually deciding on asylum such as Italy and Malta. With this project promoted by the Minister for the Interior, please, Germany will not decide on Greece. It's gonna be a blueprint. It's gonna be a belligerent. Does the Greek people know that? Minister, please, I would like to have an answer on what Zehofer says and wants to implement this draft immigration policy throughout the Community within the Presidency that will take place in the second half of 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u585	Mr. Kotsiras has the floor from New Democracy for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u586	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Mr Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, we are shortly completing the debate on the current draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection, which has been called upon to tackle a huge problem for our country, caused by the enormous flow of refugees - immigrants coming from Asia and Africa. It is attempting to tackle a very important problem, which touches on the wider European structure. First of all, we must stress that the draft law seeks to give solutions where the ideas and illusions that dominated the decisions last four years have unfortunately led to an unsuccessful result, which has resulted in what? The actions of networks, traffickers, slaves and diverse associates, the uncontrolled entry and residence of foreigners without identity in our country, their inhuman stacking under ruthless conditions in sad facilities that we often called with beautiful names to sound easier in the ears of the Greek people, the formation of horrendous conditions of hygiene and living for these people, the creation of serious problems in the areas of establishment for the population of the region, the risk - even worse - and the insultation of physical and mental integrity even of minor children in structures and finally, the disseminating of important resources that had been allocated properly would have solved many of the existing problems. In other words, inexpensive manipulation of sensitivity and of humanity in words, but in practice the results were unimportant. I have already heard Mrs Fotou refer to the Ministry and to the results by saying 'your shame', but in her position I would be more ashamed than what the previous government gave to the present. And what he delivered seems indicative of three figures through which it is understood to all that we have arrived because of the inertia that I have mentioned. For four years only one thousand eighty-six people have been retreated to Turkey. The current New Democracy Government received sixty - nine thousand three hundred eighty - seven pending asylum applications, based on the August figures that passed us. Finally, for four years only 22% of the funds available to go up immediately after the elections to 35% has been spent, with a view to the coordinated efforts of the new government to reach 50% by the end of 2020. All these problems, and in particular the humanitarian dimension of the wider issue, we are trying to deal with the bill being passed. And the humanitarian dimension has two main parameters: on the one hand, based on International Law and respect for the human dignity of entering our country, and on the other - and on the other - the protection of the smooth and peaceful livelihood of all Greek citizens. In order to address these problems that we have little - very much all known from our everyday lives, we need specific objectives and thus immediate implementation of them. And I explain: a clear legal framework, a correction of the incumbent until now to the Greek asylum system, a redesign of a new asylum system which is in line with the European Union's, in essence, respecting the rights of asylum seekers, not only by means of declarations, but also by acts and legislative actions. Here I would like to stress that this bill takes full account of all the facts currently prevailing in our country, the increased flows, the closed borders and, basically, the inability of Greece to welcome all third-country nationals who wish to enter and stay on the ground. We are protecting and laying down clear, concrete rules so that the administrative services, but also the applicants, are aware of exactly what is happening at legislative level. The speed from which this legislative framework is based makes it possible to manage rationally the applications from now on. It offers speed, it offers flexibility and it does not enclose asylum seekers in eternal and continuous procedures, which in fact benefited the illegal traffickers and those who, unfortunately, exploited these unfortunate people who arrived in our homeland. So with this particular bill, we are trying to solve a very serious problem. We are aware of the difficulties, but as the previous Member has asked that there should not be a paedophile - which does not exist - and we obviously demand that there should be no'sensitivity'. We are all sensitive, we all know the refugee and we are trying to deal with a very serious problem. I believe that this draft law will address a large part of the problem, because the asylum procedure is a key element in tackling this important problem for our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u587	Mr. Kalamatiano has the floor from SYRIZA for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u588	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when we are talking about the refugee issue - immigration - we always have to remember that we are talking about people and we have an obligation to approach it with humanity, respect and solidarity, for example that the Port House gave us, and in particular the late Governor of the Port, Kyriakos Papadopoulos, who saved thousands of our fellow citizens from the waters of the Aegean. First of all, we, Greece, must apply international law, as well as European law, so that we can demand from our partners, European states, their implementation. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you tell us all day today that the bill under discussion is a piece of legislation that supposedly protects the rights of refugees and migrants, allegedly improves, allegedly modernises, is allegedly speeding up the justice procedures. However, I want to focus on specific provisions of the bill, because, in the very least time available, I cannot expand and analyse - they have been analysed by previous speakers - the delays, management deficits, the inefficiency of your government to deal with this huge issue. Repeatedly at the meetings of the committee responsible, among other things, it has been noted that the exclusion from the category of vulnerable persons from post-trauatory stress, Article 20(3), is unacceptable. We disagree with the regulation in Article 39(10)a in conjunction with the regulation in Article 57 to which it refers, that if the applicant for international protection does not comply with the conditions and conditions of the internal rules of operation of the centre which will be staying, restricted or interrupted the material reception conditions. As you can see, this regulation is very strict and disproportionate. We disagree with the provision of Article 39(10)b that if the applicant does not comply with the decision to transfer it a presumption that he does not wish to be subject to the provisions for international protection will be made. Such a penalty, besides being disproportionate to the infringement, is also unrelated to it. We disagree with the provision of Article 51(1) that irregular minors are not included in those who have the right to join primary and secondary schools in the public education system. It is immediately understood that this omission violates the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. We disagree with the abolition of the possibility for the applicant to have access to employment after receiving the applicant's card and the right to do so after six months of completion of the application procedure, provided that a decision has not been taken at first instance, Article 53. And I ask, ladies and gentlemen, what do you want? New Manolitans? Do you want these people to stay unprotected, without work rights, without insurance rights? To be exploited by the scientists who want to exploit them, without any right? The producers of my special homeland, Elijah, have been indignant with your inability to regulate this issue to date. They cannot hire farmers and now you are creating additional problems. I hope you understand the difficulty of this. Furthermore, it constitutes a procedural obstacle to the obligation of the applicant to present himself in the course of his appeal to a second degree, to reject his appeal otherwise and to lodge a reasoned pleading for the action without at the same time providing the applicant with legal aid. Finally, the presence of the UN High Commissioner with theoretical training and experience over asylum procedures is appropriate for the position of the rapporteur. We disagree with the provision for a unilateral composition of the committees in the specific cases laid down. We note that this regulation may be considered as unconstitutional. All of this has been mentioned at committee meetings, as I have said. But do we, ladies and gentlemen? SYRIZA MPs? Of course not. A document from the Association of Administrative Judges was lodged in the morning indicating all the above, i.e. the judges who will apply the law, indicate their opposition to specific provisions, with national and international law. So vote against, ladies and gentlemen, unlike disagreement and legal, discriminatory, objective labels by the judges who will implement the legislation, which you will vote on. I don't have to add anything else. In conclusion, I hope that you will convince your fellow parties in the European People's Party that govern Hungary and Austria, these governments which closed the borders and forced Greece to lift this huge burden alone, to honour their obligations towards people, their partners, in our country. But remember, when a Priori and unlike International Law you characterise the issue as immigration and people as immigrants by 90% and little as refugees, as some of your ministers say, you are giving arguments to these governments and not to our home country. I hope you will soon realize your mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u589	Mr. Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u590	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the refugee - immigration issue is a topical issue. The juncture is undeniably unfavourable, geopolitical and humanitarian, especially after the latest developments in the wider region and the Turkish invasion in Syria. It is estimated that it will be in news and in the future for many years. The New Democracy, with the takeover of the country's governance, has moved in the first instance of a procedural nature, but has another perception of the approach of things, a concept of a policeman, a suppressive character. Thus, he abolished the autonomous Ministry of Migration Policy and assigned his powers to the Ministry of Civil Protection. Recently, he removed responsibility from the Ministry of Civil Protection and specifically those associated with the transport of refugees within the country from the islands and assigned them to the Ministry of National Defence. As a result of all these movements, apart from the fact that the main direction of immigration policy has also changed, it has been and is to stop the coordination necessary to manage such a multi-factor, multi-level, complex and complex problem. The current bill is a string of three European directives on refugee law, which have already been incorporated into national law. The bill is introduced on the grounds, I would say, that the pretext of codification is pretext. However, this is not a codification in the sense of the more functional grouping and use of the provisions in a single legislation. On the other hand, this is done in a clipboard way, since there are overlap between provisions and a series of legal errors and misconduct which even create gaps in interpretation, which will lead to administrative problems and major obstacles to the exercise of the rights of asylum seekers and thus chaos. The explanation - interpretation that may be given is that from a governmental point of view, it is becoming unsuccessful, on the one hand, to approach the extreme right-wing tendencies within the New Democracy and, on the other hand, to respect international law as far as possible. As a consequence, politically, the provisions of the bill are problematic. In fact, with the proposed arrangements, New Democracy is trying to implement its real political plan for refugee, deterrence and repression of asylum seekers. Many of the provisions of the bill directly circumvent International Law, namely the Geneva Convention. I will focus on some aspects of the bill and, in general, the problem. The New Democracy, for reasons of ideology and micropolitical tactics, claims that there is no refugee issue, but a migration problem, and that should be addressed. This position is also problematic, but also nationally dangerous, since it gives arguments to the countries of the European Union which have closed the borders. He homogenizes groups of people from specific countries or form whole ethnic groups, giving them not refugee but immigration. Statements of safe countries prove this, despite the fact that the asylum office's data are showing. For living conditions it is known that the limits have long been exceeded. On the islands, thousands of people remain locked in establishments with small capacity under inappropriate and extremely insecure conditions. The decongestion of the islands began at the end of August and is carried out at an extremely slow pace, since the government, on the one hand, did not realize or rather did not wish to realise the problem in time in terms of size and, on the other hand, for reasons of ideological ignorance of the institutional framework, the structures and rules laid down in the SYRIZA Government. Instead of promoting the real acceleration of the asylum procedure, the easy solution to the offence, the abuse of the rights of asylum seekers is chosen. Thirdly, with the bill - and I conclude, Mr President - it is a great deal of action, such as detention for everyone, who is insulting the rights of asylum seekers and beneficiaries of international protection, and which will significantly burden the work of the administrative authorities. The draft law extends and extends the measure of administrative detention, provides for the detention of all, including those who have applied for asylum, for the provision of closed reception centres and for the disconnection of the time of the applicant's administrative detention to return, in order not to be bound by the eighteen-month ceiling of the Return Directive. This means that total detention can reach all thirty-six months, something unauthorised for rule of law, when the period of temporary detention for criminals reaches up to eighteen months. Ladies and gentlemen, the refugee problem is undoubtedly an extremely important and difficult problem to tackle. On a diplomatic level, the government, with the moves it has chosen so far, sends out the wrong messages and does not highlight the issue on its right basis. I mean...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u591	Close, Mr. Papaliou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u592	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u593	No, wait a minute. Hang up now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u594	On the contrary, the government shows it as a national problem, as a national challenge and as a matter of national security and even national defence. It also seems that the New Democracy attaches greater importance to the bilateral dimension between Greece and Turkey without pushing in the direction of Europe. This weakens the country's diplomatic and negotiating position with the European Union. A serious national line would be to continue to raise the question that it is primarily European, asking the European Union to have a fair distribution of asylum seekers and refugees across all the Member States. And I'm ending up...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u595	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Look at the time and see that it's still more than 20 colleagues and we'll go by 4: 00 at dawn. Well, you're closed. Finish, say thank you and get off. Please, Mrs Iatridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u596	Mr President, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u597	No, there's not a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u598	Mr President, let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u599	You're done. Please, we've gone to seven and a half minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u600	So we also need to form alliances in the European Union in order to highlight this policy which...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u601	Okay, thank you. Mrs. Iatridis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u602	Ladies and gentlemen, as an island MP, as a Dodecanese, I am proud of my fellow countrymen and compatriots. And I am proud that, since the start of the refugee - immigration issue in our country, we have welcomed our islands in the best way possible and according to our potential for refugees and immigrants who came to our country. We offered our hospitality to these people, to women and children. I remember with excitement the baker of Kos, Dionyssis Arvanitakis, who is no longer near us, sharing daily bread from his oven before hospitality structures are even created. I remember the grandmothers in Lesvos who loved me for the children of the women who had come to our country. In the extreme Symposium and Lero I experienced the agony of the inhabitants and officials of the Port Corps and Police trying to take care of the people who were there from our eastern borders. And yet, the Greeks and Greek women, who have given hospitality lessons throughout Europe, are now being accused as racists, are being accused because they see that the situation has arrived unprecedented and now it is clear that our islands cannot withstand this unbroken burden, because they are concerned about their future. Ladies and gentlemen, the strength lies in the figures and, as we all know, in the case of the refugee - immigration - the numbers are vague. It is therefore a wish that the government, directly and decisively, decides to put one order in order, that it decides to deal with the present situation in real terms. Because the truth is that many are talking about the inalienable rights of refugees and immigrants, but they are forgetting - why is that? - also talk about the inalienable rights of Greek citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the present government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis faithful to her election commitments starts to address the problem with this bill. It is important that it is officially recognised that the problem is more and almost exclusively immigration and not refugee. And how can it be refugee, besides, when the recorded nationalities in hot spots on the islands of the Eastern Aegean and the Dodecanese exceed fifty. Ladies and gentlemen, many who criticise the bill say that the bill is moving in the spirit of strictness. Wrong. The bill does what every European country's bill must do, set clear and clear rules. These include, among other things, the establishment of a list of safe countries of origin, which will speed up return procedures, the protection of truly vulnerable refugees and migrants only, when I recall that with SYRIZA's policy over 85% of refugees - migrants were classified as vulnerable. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is facing an extremely difficult situation inherited by the SYRIZA government and should have SYRIZA colleagues, before criticising this bill, to remember their own things: The fact that for four years only one thousand eight hundred and six people have been relocated to Turkey. The fact that they left sixty-nine thousand three hundred eighty-seven pending asylum applications on the basis of August's figures. The fact that for a whole four years only 22% of available resources have been absorbed. The fact that 1,4 billion euros have disappeared. The fact that the necessary measures have not been taken by strengthening structures and services with appropriate staff. A little, even a little self-criticism wouldn't hurt. At least we islanders see that this bill speeds up procedures. The right to continue examining each application shall be limited by nine to three months. The decision will be adopted from ninety to fifty days. The decision will be served within a month, and there was not even a deadline. Ladies and gentlemen, as the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, has said to the UN, immigration is certainly a complex issue. The government raises this issue in Europe as a whole with a plan and a policy of a modern European country. The same applies to Turkey, which has a central role in this situation. Many and decisive steps have been taken in a short time. Let me also say here to the Minister that we are facing an extremely difficult and dynamic situation, Minister. Strengthening the sense of security for islands and islands is and must be the government's main priority. In this context, in my view, the needs for the organic force of the Security Bodies in the Dodecanese and in all the islands of the East Aegean should be studied and reviewed. With the support already made by the implementation in practice of this draft law, I believe that we have been on the road to genuinely addressing the problem. By limiting flows from neighbouring Turkey in consultation with Turkey itself and the European Union and increasing returns, I believe the conditions have been set for the effective treatment of the immigration issue. For this reason, as an island woman, who lives in her country, the pressure that immigration has caused on our islands, I support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u603	Mr. Alonite from SYRIZA has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u604	Thank you, Mr President. I have heard two speakers from the New Democracy who have spoken with very touching words saying that they hurt refugees and my previous colleague said that she is proud of her islanders, fellow citizens, roommates. I would remind the Minister of the debate we had a few days ago in the Committee on Civil Service and I would like to see whether we really need to be proud. I reminded everyone who is present today, if you remember the phrase of the Prime Minister who said about the Ellis island of America. Keep this, that is to say, on islands of these kinds, like in America, the refugees must enter, and there must be the examination of asylum applications and, in any case, whether they are healthy, etc., as the Americans have looked at them, the Greeks. Five hundred thousand Greeks were on Ellis Island, about two hundred fifty thousand returned and many thousand Greeks died there. I have heard - and I remind you, Minister - that in committee Mr Mylonakis - I like you, I have mentioned you twice - that you and your leader for the inhabited islands, that is to say, to get the immigrants you love there, the refugees whom you are honoring and whom all the inhabitants of the islands are trying to save. This is the image that is being shaped in our country's political life. And I'm remorseful. I said that a part of the Greek people fascizes, in arguments I mean. In the European Union too, a very large part of European citizens are fascist. Isn't that what we're worried about? Ladies and gentlemen, we have not eliminated disparities between Member States in refugee matters for so long. Greece was loaded on its back of refugee. We have not made all those efforts to internationalise this issue, to become a European issue. Today I heard - oh of the miracle - from Mr Bhuba's point of view, that the German Interior Minister, Mr Horst Zehofer, says some things that are contrary to Greece's interests. The internationalisation of the issue, the emergence of even more pressure on the European Union to become a European issue in the field of examining asylum applications, is a solution to the problem. Because here we have two kinds of crisis - I repeat - which is the reception crisis and the crisis of the fact that we cannot respond to asylum applications quickly. If we do not respond to asylum applications quickly, that means that the crisis in reception is increasing, more remains in Greece. Do you have the impression that refugees and immigrants from other parts of the world come to Greece to stay in Greece? Therefore, if asylum applications are dealt with by several committees and by all the states of the European Union, they will be responded quickly and therefore crowded on our islands or on any other parts of Greece will not exist, they will be reduced. This, in my view, is the solution to the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u605	Where are they going?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u606	They will, as required, go to all the countries of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an agreement which we have reached, and we absolutely must also seek to guarantee, in practice, the states of the European Union which are at the forefront of refusing to accept immigrants. It is a policy which will deceive the problem, because I permanently hear the phrase that the problem is Greek or even worse, as Mr Tsipras said, Greek-Turkish. That's why they're congested in the islands, that's why these regions hurt, that's why he's making a piece of our Greek political life. We are all tempting, ladies and gentlemen, we are counting on humanity. And humanity has no nation, no state, no parties, or you're a humanist, or you love man regardless of color, race, and where he comes from or you don't love him. You're, of course, protecting your state, you're identifying your policy...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u607	How do you protect it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u608	You define your policy, but above all within this legal framework that you have as a state and as a European Union, within the framework of law that must be human. Then I really think you're acting as a human. Ladies and gentlemen, the call that we must apply legality is a general vague view. The legality of the States and the European Union shall determine it. If legality is inhuman, what does it mean? How do we answer this question? Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing down, I have had a lot to say, but it is impossible to do so. I will close with the following phrase. The gain would be the urgent, beneficial for the people of Europe to renew and regain the European acquis. More specifically, our policy must be directed at European level by demanding the establishment of a common European asylum system. I see people who come to the islands under terrible unfavourable conditions with a smile, to find hope and when the policy that you want to adopt today is implemented, they will face a night.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u609	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u610	I'll be done. Your bill, I believe, speeds up the arrival of the night, I see Ellis Islands and uninhabited islands, and this turns our country into black years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u611	Mr Katsafandos from New Democracy has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u612	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what appears to be all this day in which this bill is being discussed is the very important and one difference which we have with our colleagues in the Staff Regulations. And who is this, ladies and gentlemen? It is our view that there must be a separation between immigrants, refugees and illegal incoming immigrants, while SYRIZA puts them all in the same bag. That's the difference we have. Our position is based on realism and on the reality and the ability that the country has, and your position is based on the excellence of your ideas and not on the humanism you are trying to convince us of. Because the memories, ladies and gentlemen, are very fresh. In Greece, we don't all have a goldfish memory. Where was your humanism in Idomeni? Where was your humanism in Moria? Where was your humanism when minors were being prosecuted and the police couldn't get in and there was this whole drug trade? Where were you SYRIZA and Left humanists then? So what is this bill, ladies and gentlemen? He's putting an end to lawlessness. He's making rules. Because a state which respects refugees first and foremost must lay down rules. We accept a terrible criticism that we abolished the Ministry of Migration Policy. What ministry are you talking about? Only 40% of organic jobs had been covered for three and a half years, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. Of the three European funds to support the refugee, on average, the funds you have managed to raise amount to 22%. That's the reality. It was four buildings scattered across the corner of Athens. And that's what you said it was the Ministry of Migration Policy. And what did we do? We brought it to the Citizen's Protection Department, as it is in every modern country. Isn't it in Germany? Isn't it in France? What did we do differently? Is that right? I've heard since this morning that the New Democracy has been going to the right, to the extreme right. So that the rejection of asylum will be carried out automatically and that it will be relaunched and that will not be expected to meet a new committee is a far-reaching right? Is it extreme? Or is that simple logic? You came here to tell us a proposal and that the previous regime, which you brought in, this abortion, this legal carat, which you had done with all these multi-level councils, should be corrected by this whole multi-level procedure, as far as asylum clearance is concerned, where in the end no one was allowed and all the applications were pending. We found seventy thousand pending applications. I'm asking you something else, why shouldn't these questions be left unanswered? I want SYRIZA's next spokesman, who will come up to this one, to tell me if he thinks there are illegal immigrants. I want him to return and say, 'This is our position, we do not think there are illegal immigrants. And immediately afterwards, he can answer us: This country of ten million inhabitants, how many immigrants and refugees can he withstand? Tell us a number. Is that a million? Is that two million?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u613	In Europe, you can tell them, not us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u614	I tell the Greek Members first. Because it was your deafening absence all the previous years. SYRIZA's previous colleague did not say a great "thank you" and did not offer congratulations and credit to the current Prime Minister of the country who has been trying to internationalise the issue, which he said should be done. "Congratulations", therefore, to the current Prime Minister of the country, who is internationalizing the matter. "Congratulations" to the country's current Prime Minister, who told the Council of Europe that there must be a common European asylum policy. And Germany's Interior Minister at his meeting with the five largest countries in Europe said Dublin II should be reviewed so that it would not be the first host countries of soul warehouses, as Greece has done. So let SYRIZA's next colleague come and tell us how many this country can handle. Can it last a million? Can it last two million? Can it last three million? Ladies and gentlemen, we have been driven by incompetence, amateurism, your ideas from this mess which was at risk by stopping the Schengen Treaty from being applied in our country. That's where you led us. And the results speak for themselves. We had a thousand eight hundred in three and a half years. The tens of thousands who have rejected their request where are they? Where is he? How will they come back? What was the care you had taken for them? None. Because you think they should not come back. And because you cannot understand the dangers and problems in the Greek society, which are created. I don't have a xenophobia. I must, however, understand and recognise that a country must have rules. All citizens, including refugees and immigrants, should be vigilantly respected by these rules. So that makes this bill. He's bringing rules. He's bringing order. He's modernizing. It is trying with rapid and rapid procedures to give asylum to those who really need it and to make direct returns to those who have illegally entered our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u615	Mrs Eleftheriadou from SYRIZA has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u616	The refugee issue will become your achilles heel, ladies and gentlemen, of the New Democracy, and will even determine the political developments in the country, as you have made sure to determine them in the July elections. Then you all worked the refugee to win the election. You have created an election record that SYRIZA and the relaxation - supposedly - was responsible for the refugee problem. Election was not the geopolitical reasons. There was no poor Turkey that promoted refugees in Greece. Election has promised that you will close the border and send the refugees back as soon as you take over the country's rule. Electionally, the media, after your orders, distorted and overcrowded the problem to strengthen the xenophobic views of voters and help you win the election. And now, you are trapped in the ideologies and lies you have spoken in the election. After abolishing the Ministry of Migration Policy, you have driven all people out of their positions with experience and indifferent or canceled all the programs prepared by the SYRIZA Government, you understood that what you said was electionally intact and that it is time to confess to the real problems and difficulties, to confess that he blamed SYRIZA's policy in the election campaign alone. And this, thankfully, was understood by Mr Mitsotakis and now adopts SYRIZA's views that refugee is the 21st century bet and that only one country can raise the problems of three continents on its shoulders. And let the blue heretics be careful in their statements. Now the Prime Minister undoes the poem that he had taught them to say election and confirms what SYRIZA said. However, it absolves it a little later, since it basically closed the borders on Greek territory, cultivating fear, xenophobia and racism, since, as Mr Kumoucasos has said, the government did not want to dismantle the islands so that it would not send a message - allegedly - of attracting new flows. You deliberately let chaos develop for three months. It announces, since in Moria, the residents reached 16,000, while in SYRIZA they did not exceed five thousand, because in Samos, Chios, Leros, Kos, five times the capacity of the structures in Kos, since we saw images of disgrace with extremely precarious and inappropriate living conditions with refugees sleeping in cartons, children sick not to have medicine, not to have access to schools and women without the basic kinds of hygiene, after lives have been lost, even to young children. And since you have done nothing, you are now bringing fast track procedures and refugees to the vote on a bill condemned by the Association of Administrative Judges, the Doctors Without Borders, Amnesty International, the Greek Council for Refugees and many other institutions. Why are they condemning it? For example, I will mention the reasons for lack of time. You are considering safe countries of origin of asylum seekers. So what are you doing? If it is deemed that the applicant comes from a safe country with completely undetermined criteria, then an immigrant will automatically be baptized and deported. The allegations of individual examination of the asylum application are therefore a communication trick. The bill stipulates that detention can now be imposed on an asylum seeker who has been free until now, giving to the reasons for the risk of the public order that has been abolished in 2016, which is very easy and likely to be provoked on any occasion. The detention for asylum seeker from three months is eighteen and will be different because of expulsion, which is eighteen again, so to a total of thirty-six. You do not take into account the provision of criminal proceedings which says that temporary detention is prohibited for more than eighteen months. In the draft law you brought before the Ministry of Justice just a moment ago, you justify decaying the property of what the Dumping Authority has committed over eighteen months, because of this provision. In other words, criminal businessmen who have been committed to their property for over eighteen months will take them back, while refugees may be detained for thirty-six months. We'll talk about this when the time comes. There are three loopholes in the bill to reject applications. An individual presence of the asylum seeker shall be imposed on the second-degree committees. But how will they be there when they're gone, because there's no suspensive effect? The legal performance of the decision if we don't know where the applicant is. In other words, the applicant will not be aware and will lose the deadline for the action. Rejection for non-compliance with regulations and transfer to a hosting structure. So if anyone doesn't want to leave because he has his family or friends, you'll deport him. There's a lot more. I will close by answering Mr Katsafados that there are no illegal immigrants on the pretext. There are asylum seekers whose human rights violates this bill and the Government of New Democracy. The progressive forces of society must react decisively, defending humanism and closing their ears in racist and extreme right-wing approaches of government, which are aimed solely at disorientating public opinion and concealing the inability of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u617	Mr. Khiridis has the floor from New Democracy for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u618	Thank you, Mr President. I think that in this Chamber we can all agree that migration and refugee are here to stay. It is his great challenge now and the future. It has to do with globalisation and a number of its aspects. So it calls on us to agree as a political system in a long-term strategy. The truth is - and I am not optimistic - that all over the world is dominated by ideologies, conveniences, populism. Greece could not be an exception. What we are different from that in this country - and this is the Greek particularity if you like - is the dominant right-wing populism, and what maybe we could call 'humanist populism'. The challenge for us, the great European party of our country, the New Democracy, is to engrave and implement the middle street, the path of the right speech, the European road between the two extremes, the extreme right-wing populism and what I said to you before, the 'humanist', the via media, and that succeeds in this bill. I would like here to refer to what we have said 'humanitarian populism' and see it a little more carefully. Firstly, it considers the phenomenon as natural, as it comes from above and that we Greek politicians have no role to play. It is not natural that immigration is a phenomenon. Of course it is a European problem, and it must be dealt with in cooperation and pressure from the other states for greater solidarity, but we too as a Greek political system and as a government - collapsing we have a crucial role to play. After all, this is what the Greek people ask us. The government's primary ruler is to rule. The fear and reactions of the Greek people today have exactly what to do with it, the feeling that our country is a clear vine. That is what we must now answer. In order to use your own words, gentlemen of SYRIZA, from a specific neoliberalism, at least in this matter, the absence of state intervention by policy rules. We come and bring these. We bring the state back, we rebuild it, we bring the rules, we bring politics. That's the one. Secondly, we should agree in this Chamber that there are refugees, but there are - and this is the large number - irregular - and I am using a very specific word - immigrants. They have rights, but the host country also has a right to them, which can decide, as an organised society, as an organised political community, whether to accept or deport them. We don't have to keep them and we can't keep them when we talk about these sizes. Thirdly, the phenomenon of immigration is based on a dynamic that we have not analysed at all here, but it is useful to have in mind, especially you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, that of the avalanche. The more immigrants come, the more immigrants will come. The problem is not solved by accepting immigrants. He's getting worse. Return to the countries of origin or Turkey sends the message that the one who comes here for free comes, pays the dealer for free, pays the money and risks his life passing the Aegean. That's why it's prevented from coming in in the first place. The humanists who open the doors must bear in mind this role of avalanche, because they do not face the problem, are making it worse. Who benefit from immigration? Let's think about that, too. Who's migrating? They don't migrate, as you want to believe. Because to emigrate, you need money, you need a network, you need knowledge. The poorest remain poor in Sub-Saharan Africa, Bangladesh and Pakistan. Who benefit? The immigrant is most advantageous, especially his children. Who's hurting? The society from which they leave is damaged. Because we have the most powerful elements of this society to go and the inequality between rich and poor countries in the world is exacerbated by immigration. So, where do you want the good of the third world and the poor and frustrated of this earth, know that you are not doing it by supporting immigration, but you are operating backwards. That is why I believe that many times this - within many introductorys - 'humanistic' morality leads to inhuman and immoral results and it is important to take this into account. This draft law, hand to hand with European policy, which we have seen in the Zehofer Declaration, for the revision of the Dublin Treaty, on the one hand, lays rules, quickly clears asylum applications, clears out who are irregular immigrants to return and gives them the preliminary status of refugee and then distributes them according to the Zehofer Declaration and the agreement of the five major countries of the European Union, is the first step. They will follow and will need a great deal more for this very difficult problem that we have before us and which the incomplete and stupid policy or rather non-political that we have seen in the last four and a half years only worsen, to the detriment of both the country and the European Union and the poor countries of the third world, creating explosive conditions and ultimately fuelling this left-wing populism of the far-right Orban. You make the greatest gift to Orban. You built Orban, you want Orban and you want the two ends to play with each other. We in this will follow the voice of logic, the middle road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u619	Mr. Kelles, from New Democracy, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u620	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law, the Government is putting us in order in the chaotic landscape of polynomialism, administrative uncertainty and idealism, inherited by the SYRIZA Government, which between 2016-2018 passed three relevant bills on international protection, and further amending provisions were added to two other bills. The result was a dissolved asylum system, for which anyone who dared to criticise, whether from local societies or from OTAs, was described as xenophobic or at best as extreme. That is the truth, ladies and gentlemen. It is also true that you left sixty-seven thousand asylum applications untreated. It is true that fourteen thousand appeals are pending. It is true that 60% of organic sites were empty. Which Ministry of Migration Policy are you talking about? There was nothing. And among the others, you have been circumventing in both the European Union and Turkey Agreement by resurrecting just one thousand eight hundred people in four years. And you baptized the immigration issue as a refugee. Since the day we took over the governance of the country, we have been taking steady recovery steps. We send messages in all directions and in pity that the country is not a clear vine. Everyone now realises that there is a serious government that protects borders and defends national interests. Apart from keeping borders, which is gradually intensified in Aegean and Evros, we are creating pre-regulatory centres for those who are not entitled to asylum. Our aim is for the returns and returns by the end of 2020 to reach 10,000. At the same time, and in accordance with our commitments, we are speeding up and tightening up asylum procedures. On the one hand, the examination period for applications is defined from six to nine months for the normal procedure and from twenty to thirty days for the rapidity, i.e. when they are vulnerable applicants, for those who pose a risk to national security or public order, and for those who are at the border or who have misleaded the authorities or who have not cooperated in fingerprinting. On the other hand, those who violate the terms and regulations of the centres will be faced with the cessation of housing, while those who do not comply with the decisions of their transfer to other structures, their application will be examined with absolute priority, taking into account the element of their non-compliance as an element capable of instigating their return process. At the same time, the appeal procedure also changes to the second degree and to the courts. First of all, the application form will not be given immediately but a justification form should be drawn up to justify the applicant's action. The Boards of Appeal will continue to function, but will be appointed by judges, while appeals will be brought to the administrative courts of Athens and Thessaloniki, which can respond rapidly to the appeals for annulment and where short deadlines may be set both for the judgments and judgments. Further, returns are accelerated. The decision to reject the application at first instance will allow the applicants to return if they do not bring an action. Because if the request is rejected, the applicant will be detained. However, it should be noted here that full protection of the rights and privacy of applicants will be taken. Three measures are also taken in areas which, until now, have favoured immigration. The first is finding a job. The applicant will be able to work if his application has not been answered within six months of his request. It is understandable that this will discourage immigration in conjunction with the second measure which is the training of lists of safe countries of origin and of safe third countries. Through the lists, the procedure for examining requests will be accelerated and refunds will be accelerated if the applicant who comes or has been passed through a safe country, indicates that his application is rejected or, respectively, that Greece is not responsible for examining his request. In this new context, the removal of post-traumatic stress as a reason for vulnerability is also added. Ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law, our Government unifys diffuse provisions and creates immigration policy, which had been abolished in the government of SYRIZA. At the same time, it goes on to separate the refugee from immigration. Asylum is sacred and must be given to those who really need it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Immigration is a phenomenon of geopolitical, economic and social. However, our country cannot lift its own burden, nor does it have the population and infrastructure to accommodate and assimilate all these people. By voting in favour of this draft law we ensure legality by adapting national legislation to modern challenges. At the same time, we continue to fight for the internationalisation of the issue. However, our European partners must assume their responsibilities, because we are not the government of willing men like our predecessors, but we are the government of all Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u621	Mrs Konnakka has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u622	Thank you, Mr President. With the draft legislation under discussion, it could only be euphemistically said that international protection is being regulated, since the government is literally seeking to get asylum applications through but also, in total, to intensify the repressive nature of the procedures for the reception of thousands of refugees and migrants in our country. Not only do you proceed to digging asylum applications with the invention of the so-called refugee profile, but go one step further. In order to verify - you say - if there is a risk of persecution or damage, you are considering the circumstances that do not generally exist in the country of origin, but it is sufficient to consider it safe, with your own measures and weights, only a part of the country of origin. In other words, the European Union's long-standing direction - supported by the SYRIZA Government - is being pursued, of course - with which it is intended to be seen as a refugee only the one who is leaving a particular war zone, since, first of all, the NATO and the European Union hailed and destroyed their countries for years, with the unequivocal support of our governments. To avoid forgetting those latents were captured by philanthropic feelings, which ports started the naval and European airplanes of your evil allies, bombing a year before Syria! From the same bases that were supplying and stabbing before Afghanistan, Iraq previously, and so many other peoples who today are baptizing irregular immigrants. And what do you say today to those thousands of outdated people? Find a quiet corner to return to their place until the next "Peace of Peace" comes to finish them. I do not have time to deal with a series of regulations which make access to international protection impracticable, literally tiring the Geneva Convention. However, having first-hand experience of the conditions in the Moria Cytum throughout its operation, I am truly surprised by this arrangement to exclude from any material living conditions if the asylum seeker fails to comply with the rules of operation of the host centres. Truly, what are the operating regulations that a person can respect in the Molecular Cytium of two and a half thousand people, where more than fourteen thousand are currently stacked? Nearly five thousand are in Vial and six thousand are in Deep Samos, and it goes on to say. Can you really imagine rules of operation when the more than fourteen thousand of Moria are considering two doctors in the morning and one in the afternoon, while for a long time the CYT was operating with just one doctor? And these conditions were certainly exacerbated for as long as thousands of people were excluded from access to public health structures, while it was forbidden to vaccinate minors who are less than half the population of people in prison today in the Moria Cytium. However, what finally makes the situation at the Moria Cyt and all the Cyts of the islands with the serious dangers and for public health itself is not judged by whether asylum seekers will ultimately be given AMKA or a health card, but by the enormous shortages in health care staff, the lack of materials and medicines, and the exhausted personnel who exaggerate themselves not only in the structures but also in the hospitals and health centers of Samos, Lesvos, Chios and in the areas close to detention centres, who have long exceeded the limits of their endurances. It is clear that these conditions cannot be guaranteed services of prevention, early diagnosis and effective treatment in order to ensure fundamentally the protection of health of both those people who actually live in conditions of health bomb and public health itself. On the other hand, this would require full state funding, taking advantage of any EU funds for the maintenance of public health establishments, their equipment, the development and maintenance of hospitals and in hospitals with permanent and full-time staff and not the patches of contractors. So the arrangements that you bring not only will not improve the inhumane conditions that prevail in the colleges that you and your predecessors have created, but will shape more explosive situations by generalising conditions of inland caging. Why unacceptable caging, which makes life inviolable for both the refugees and migrants and the inhabitants of our islands, you leave him intact because you do not aim at the source: the unacceptable agreement of the European Union - Turkey, and the Schengen and Dublin treaties, which, like the previous government of SYRIZA, you are guarding as the daughter of an eye and you are struggling today who will serve them better. A real, integrated and human solution can be no other than that which the JRC consistently displays to close all hot spots and transfer refugees and immigrants to hospitality structures operating under state responsibility and adequate permanent staff on the mainland and from there in their countries of destination. Of course, the release from the imperialist organizations and the closure of the US bases that sow war and refugee to the peoples.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u623	Mr Spankis has the floor from New Democracy for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u624	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, soon the Greek Parliament is called upon to vote on a piece of legislation, a framework of rules on immigration, leaving behind a past which was not worthy of public administration and a huge national and European issue, such as immigration, a piece of legislation that lays down substantive and crucial rules on this issue, a piece of legislation which, in its implementation, will send out multiple messages to the traffickers of the souls and to those who are working on this issue. In a short time, our country will have a new law with substantial terms which will refer to a modern rule of law and a Greece of true solidarity. And when we say solidarity, we are not talking about SYRIZA's solidarity nor about the big words. Because this is the song that fits your prose, as the Greeks are still waiting for hope to come from 2015 that you promised. Finally, stop lying, stop risking, stop splitting, stop your backward and deadly populism! Greece does not deserve this climate, the policy that you cultivate, because you have learned a sterile criticism, an undead discussion on every issue, whether foreign policy or the national economy. The New Democracy has been judged on its path and on 7 July by the Greek people. Understood, take it. We have an action plan, we are promoting a European asylum policy. Because we simply believe in Europe. The Prime Minister of the country Kyriakos Mitsotakis has already made substantial contributions to sharing the immigration problem, which you have not only thought of, not only did you dare, but you are caught up in your left ideal in your theoretical searches. We, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, are very proud to belong to the centre-right wing of Parliament, which serves the centre-right ideology. We centre right do not divide the Greeks, we do not choose the audience we will talk about because we respect the entire Greeks regardless of their ideological origin. After the placement of Mr. Tsipras one is certain that you cannot overcome the post-election stress. I understand that today he had to talk to his audience to rally it. I know you're in trouble. But you cannot, in the name of the crowding of your public, hurt national unity, public opinion and local societies at every corner of the country, to solve a serious national problem, a European problem such as immigration. I will borrow the title of your former colleague Alexis Metropoulou's book to tell you that it is finally time for self-criticism and responsibility for Greece and the Left. For first you must make your self-criticism and then come here to vote for a bill that has principles, such as respect for the rights of asylum seekers, the requirement that applicants cooperate with national authorities and respect the laws of the country, the integration into the asylum system of those who are truly refugees and comply with their obligations, the rapid removal from the asylum system of those who request only to delay their removal from Greece, and they have no intention of joining them. The aim is also to complete all relevant procedures within a quarter. Other objectives of this bill are at last to establish a system of asylum law but also strict rules, to set up a system that will eliminate the ideals that we have led to an unknown number of foreigners who cannot be identified by the authorities, so they are not returned to their countries of origin. The proposed provisions explicitly provide that the breach of the conditions and regulations of operation of the reception and identification centres has the effect of stopping the residence of the applicants. For the first time it is foreseen that in case a foreigner does not comply with the decision to transfer it to another structure, it is assumed that he does not want protection and is referred to return procedures. After registration, as long as applicants finally remain in the system, but do not comply with the transfer decisions, their application shall be dealt with by rapid procedures within three days. The definitions of the Directive as to what constitutes 'family members' are transposed. It's changing the detention status. Rapid assistance from the Asylum Service shall be established. Pre-registration and recording are now carried out by a structured system. The question of medical attestations is settled. A list of safe countries of origin and safe third countries is proposed. It ends the 'production' of actions we have had so far because of the wrong legislative choices It provides for the self-determination of applicants at every stage of the process, from the Asylum Service to the Justice, asylum services which you have made your way and today's political leadership with the procedures that have been going on in recent times is increasing to achieve our goal. It is also foreseen that the duration of the asylum seeker’s cards is linked to the adoption of the decision. Finally, Mr President, I should like to say that you cannot, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, criticise our foreign policy when valid newspapers, such as today's 'ESTIA', speak of a strategic victory by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis on issues of fundamental importance for the Greek national minority in Albania. For these reasons, therefore, I call on all of Parliament's wings to vote in favour of this draft law which lays the foundations for such a crucial issue as immigration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u625	Mrs Agathopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u626	Thank you very much, Mr President. And what we did not hear in this Chamber today. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, I have the impression that today was one of your most happy days in the Greek Parliament. You were given the opportunity with this bill to unfold your entire xenophobic rhetoric, of course mocking the conservative ears of an audience that you would very much like to have. You have found an opportunity to replicate all the backward remarks of the last few days. In fact, one of your favourite themes was the insult of our national symbols on the occasion of the 28th parade, namely the New Philadelphia parade and the girls who made Monti Python's ointment. In fact, Mr. Kumoutsakos said that our ancestors did not shed their blood so that today some people could humiliate our sacred symbols. But he neglected to say that our ancestors did not shed their blood, neither to equate fascism and Nazism today with populism nor to equate the national resistance with volunteerism. It is a shame to hear these from the lips of today's government. It is also disgraceful, today, that much, far-right elements have been heard here here, because you have in your hands and such, with a rightful burger to refer to the decision on the Iranian refugee, Sarare, where the Supreme Court, the Marios Ice, finally did not deport it, made a decision not to deport it and declare that you are supposed to be pleased about this decision. Do you know why you're happy? Because she was a single woman, as if you don't know that all women, most women in these states suffer and accept violence and may also be the reason for their extermination. You're pretending you don't know that? So why do you come and dismantle the personalised examination of requests and set a list of safe third countries, as though these safe third countries guarantee that the people who return to them will live safely? All this has a single objective, and you say it clearly, you have no problem saying that. This target is most of the relaunches. Therefore, instead of the codification you are evangelizing, you are actually back in the European Union's directives in the strictest possible direction, so that more and more demands are rejected and the rights of these people being violated, as well as international law, are being violated. You have dared, ladies and gentlemen, here, to make sure that the people suffering from post-traumatic stress are made redundant, and indeed the Prime Minister himself, referring to it, spoke of the case of legal documents justifying post-traumatic stress. It is disgraceful and we are becoming internationally resentful in such statements, because, if you had even dealt with it to the very least, you would know that in the WHO, World Health Organisation, health policy for refugees and immigrants, you would first see that in order for there to be public health in a country with such populations it is a duty to have a concern about the health of refugees and migrants, because it is a basic condition for public health to cover these populations, while you come and do exactly the opposite, you are coming and shrinking their right to access health by limiting it only on urgent occasions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] How do you talk about safety, which you flagged, of the general population, when you do not care about the health of the Greek population? If you consulted the World Health Organisation's manuals, you would see that there is a special reference to these reports on post-traumatic stress, because it is not a fabulous fake evidence, but a serious illness that can have its causes at all stages of migration - and I conclude, Mr President - from countries of origin to the whole of their journey. The experience and data of research show that post-traumatic stress can vary in very large percentages of this population, unlike the native population, and mainly concerns young children and adolescents, unaccompanied, but not just. I'll close by saying that if you manage to reduce the flow and increase the returns, it remains to be seen. The non-design that you have had so far does not give too much optimistic messages, but that is why it seems - and we are sure - that you are turning Greece into a police state and a country of repression. Here, Mr Chrysochoid, you deserve personal congratulations, because you have managed to make the Police, but also the Armed Forces, present everywhere, in the asylum controls, in smoking controls, in film displays, everywhere. This is the Greece of the New Democracy and you are the best minister of it right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u627	Mr Zisesis Jikalaya from New Democracy has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u628	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today, coming to the end of the debate on this very important bill, I was thinking about what to say because there are many overlappings, many things, the same and important things have been said several times by colleagues. So I will pick up the towel from my dear colleague, the young woman - it is not bad - of SYRIZA, and I would like to say to her that New Democracy is the great popular liberal and patriotic centre-right party, which, if she now has any extreme right-wing elements, as you say, I do not know if it is worse than the many hearings you have on your side. We are talking today, after much consultation has taken place, this very important draft law on refugee and immigration. I'm a congressman of Castoria. I come from an area of which I would like to describe in short the different images that were there twenty-seven-eight years ago, in 1991-1992, with today. Then I was a young specialist doctor I returned to my area doing my rural homework and today we are twenty - eight years later. There are some important similarities, but also important differences. An important similarity is that, and then there was a Mitsotakis, the late Constantine, in the country's prime ministership, and today Kyriakos Mitsotakis is in the country's premiership. Then a big difference was in the direction of the flow. Then, going to the rural hospital, I saw - perhaps it is a heavy expression - the hordes, the great crowds of immigrants coming from neighbouring Albania and who were also economic immigrants, because they had very serious economic problems in their country, but also political refugees, since they left a free regime, which had led them to too many sufferings. The Greek people and the Greek authorities kindly welcomed them, with love, sympathy, with feelings of hospitality. At that time the economic situation was better and, above all, the surplus, but also many of the behind it. There had been structures at the time. They opened camps for families and families were mostly North-East of our compatriots, but also other camps, where Albanian citizens as such were hosted and saw the care of the Greek state at all levels, and health and education later, and that we put them in our homes, we took care of them and made the advance they made in the years to come. Now the streams are in the opposite direction. We meet in the streets citizens from countries that were not used to - and that is not racist - and they are darker. Why? Because it is more than either the sub-Saharan African countries or, if you like, Afghanistan and Pakistan. There are very few Syrian refugees, where the situation is at war. Now they go wrong, I would say, that they follow paths, get into houses, houses, houses, and there's a sense of insecurity for the citizens. With this bill, the main concern of the government is first and foremost to inspire the sense of security to Greek citizens and beyond, because there is a situation that we inherited and inherited it because when you were opposition again five years ago - I do not say that you have full responsibility, but you have decisive responsibility - your President to these countries, to these citizens, to come to Greece, that Greece is paradise and has the ability to host and confront them and so now the government seriously and responsibly wants to give a solution to these problems we are facing. We separate refugees from immigrants. We're giving the source a solution. We're showing that we're a serious country. As far as vulnerability, anyway, is concerned, it cannot be medically 85% of post-traumatic stress coming. Again there will be a new legislative provision, but there will be specific medical assurances and certifications, which will not be called into question. You have to convince you that you are a serious country, that all your structures are working with a programme, that anyone who is entitled to refugee treatment will have it, that children and families - the Prime Minister said so today - will be given special treatment from there and above all those who do not comply with the rules of the host country, namely Greece, will either return or be treated legally and criminally like the Greek citizen who is in violation of the law. Because it is time last year and I do not want to say any more, I will close by saying that we intend to effectively safeguard the country's borders to safeguard democracy and legality. The sea has a border. Greece belongs to the Greeks and the Aegean and not to the fish, as you once said, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u629	Mr Manolakou from New Democracy has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u630	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we must make it clear that granting asylum to refugees is not an act of charity, but an obligation of our country based on international conditions and Greek legislation. The granting of international amnesty, international protection for refugees separates one of the greatest problems of the time, separates immigrants from refugees and refugees, whose lives are at risk, if they are returned to their country of origin for political, social or religious reasons. We have to deal with this situation in the light of the European Union's directives, but also with the fact that we are the western gate and Europe's borders, that we are the ones who accept the huge volume of flows of irregular immigrants and refugees. We must form the legal framework for the recognition of refugees from the war zones of the East, those at risk of their lives from bombing and death, with a system of strongness which cannot be misused by the economic irregularity of immigrant to remain in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, in my day-to-day contact with the citizens I constantly see that the Greek society, the society of the ten-year crisis, is no longer able to withstand the waves of migrant flows that are confusing with refugees and creating asphyxiating problems in everyday life, and I mean, of course, not just crime. The situation regarding illegal entry into the country is at risk of getting out of control. The flow of entry is increasing and the islands are suffocating us. No one in charge or in charge can answer the question of how many foreigners currently in circulation in the country, whether legal or illegal. We, the Government of New Democracy, want to improve the living conditions of the Greeks and refugees, not of every citizen who wants to work in our country irregularly, taking the work from the Greeks because he works uninsured. Irregular immigrants know that, by abusive demand for asylum, they cannot be returned or expelled into their country of origin, even though their lives are not at risk for some political, social or religious reason. That is exactly what we want to change and change it with this bill, because SYRIZA has failed or did not want to organise asylum services in a sufficient manner, it did not or did not want the asylum provisions to apply. Ladies and gentlemen, what is happening in Greece with immigration and refugee is not honouring anyone. We want the state to be strong and to be able by legal and rapid procedures to remove anyone who is not a refugee and is not entitled to asylum. We say 'yes' to humanism, we say 'yes' to respect for human rights, we say 'yes' to aid and solidarity, but we also have to observe rules and a specific framework. The draft law before us is in the right direction, because for the first time the country has a asylum law, which incorporates the directives set up by the common European asylum system. We amplify the framework, we make explicit rules with rights and obligations. We have time-limits and we are responding to problematic and non-cooperating ones. We are giving speed to the procedures, we are now becoming decisive and we are closing down all the "holes" of the previous system, making use of the experience from its current operation. Finally, with regard to the objections of the Objection on a draft law based on the idea of deterrence and repression, I will tell you that our country must finally enter the level of the act rather than the theory. The control of irregular foreigners and their return to their country of origin or origin, their registration, the protection of public order and public health must be a primary concern for every government and our government is doing so, because the Greeks must feel safe at home, because this is his home, here is his home, and those who come must respect the rules of hospitality. Everyone must finally understand that we will not play with the country's existence. We have a responsibility to our ancestors, but also to our offspring. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u631	Thank you, too. The Members' speeches have been completed. I'll wish you a good month, because the new month has already entered for an hour and a quarter. I shall give the floor to the rapporteurs, if they so wish, so that they may be placed for three minutes each. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Cappatos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u632	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like, in my speech, to point out, as a result of the pressure of time, three points which deserve to be raised, the detention, the operational capacity and our responsibility as a rule of law. As regards detention, the objections raised are excessive if we take into account the fact that a third-country national or a stateless person applying for international protection may exceptionally be held on the basis of an individual assessment and provided that alternative measures cannot be applied. Therefore, the concern expressed by many of our fellow Members does not exist in so far as it has been expressed, since we are talking about the exemption which is even individually assessed. In addition, if we consider the legislative improvement of Article 46 by adding the paragraph on the possibility for judicial authorities to decide on the legality of extending detention, I believe that the arguments put forward by colleagues in opposition are not founded. With regard to the readiness and management capacity of the administration, I would like to highlight two parameters. The first concerns the nature of the bill. The design of a codified, coherent and clear legislative framework cures precisely this problem, namely the ability of the administration to acquire a specific and fully understandable institutional environment that will enable it to improve its management capacity. In fact, the introduction and development of a new type of law, as the Minister himself pointed out, will provide the judicial officers and other services of the State with the institutional experience and education in the new reality. I now come to the last, which is the most important issue, the rule of law. We have heard, ladies and gentlemen, as well as any political disagreements, wordings offensive and provocative. In what sense can the designation as 'immoral' be justified for those who vote for the bill, Mr Varoufakis? On the other hand, how exactly are we going to help society solve its problems when we appeal to inferior instincts and resort to populist and politically inexpensive cries that undermine every embedded effort for social peace? Ladies and gentlemen, in a difficult management European crisis, the burden of first reception and identification fell on Greece. The massive entry of refugees - migrants found Greece unprepared and inertia against a problem that is constantly growing. Today, with this bill, we are voting on this picture to change. The timing is appropriate to draw up a new path, to rediscover those elements that characterize us as a nation and as a state, and we must now highlight the responsibility of solidarity on the one hand and a sense of security on the other. Today we are voting on Greece's inertia and procrastination. The international protection bill is our chance, as a European country, to work together, with a plan and effective response to a problem that we do not have the luxury of leaving for later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u633	Thank you, too. Mr. Psychoeuu has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u634	Thank you, Mr President. I will also be brief, as long as I can, just a lot of things are and I will try to codify. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I am starting with the fact that we are confirmed that this bill is not codification and is not a model of good legislation. It confirms with all these legislative techniques that have been given that you are trying to make a contention of legality, a "speakings" on two boats, to fit both extreme right and legality. For us these are inconsistent and unfortunately also legislative. Secondly, please let this plaque between post-election stress and post-traumatic stress. It is unacceptable, and I say this because it is mainly about the fact that through the protocols of vulnerability, through the World Health Organisation, this is recognised and must exist as a disease for vulnerability, and in part you have accepted it - not entirely - with your legislative structures and public structures. Stop playing with that thing. With regard to immigration, from the Chios FYROM, we have 23% from Syria: 23% from Syria, 17% from Somalia, 16% from Afghanistan, 14% from Palestine, 7% from Congo, 2% from Eritrea, 2% from Yemen, 2% from Iran - and you are rightly supporting the decision of the Ice Bay - that is, over 80% are refugees who are currently coming. Leave this dangerous game you're playing. Don't underestimate the Asylum Service. I have told you another time: we are second in Europe to deal with the question of dealing with the question - which is too much, of course - and four at a speed. From two hundred people we took, we gave you over a thousand staff seats. We don't have to go through our services. Some others have heard that there are smugglers, if not smugglers, since they are immigrants, they are smugglers. There are no smugglers, no illegal immigrants. There's only smuggling cigarettes. There are no "knobs, strings in Agios Panteleimon". There are no drones hunters. It is unacceptable that what has been heard in this Chamber and it really shows the struggle that is taking place in a part of the New Democracy with the extreme right-wing agenda and, of course, the "away from my area", which has been heard by many, which is inexcusable, inhuman and nationally irresponsible. It will create a problem for you too, 'away from my area and wherever it is', as some people have done for years with garbage. It has also been heard that our ministers are intertwined, about OLAF and all that. Unfortunately, this was heard by the Parliamentary spokesperson of KINAL. Look, OLAF is working on NGO spending. Do not involve the country in this game. It's a very serious matter. For AMCA, we had legislated the law of uninsured persons, so that there would be no obstacles to access to health. You psit it and it will also have an impact on the general health condition. National security: Minister, you know that most of the terrorists were European citizens. You know that. Also the fact that when the terrorist energy took place in France, one of those who had come outside had been identified in Greece. It had passed and been identified outside the country for the terrorist energy. But when people like Mrs Tsirigotis walk away or when, for example, we come and link the refugee to terrorism against what Mr Avramopoulos said - and rightly so - to the relevant committees, that is dangerous. ‘Created the refugee by SYRIZA’. A shorter joke than that doesn't exist. I can't believe it still sounds from some of your MPs. Moria is obviously the shame of Europe. But we have never tasted the situation. I also talked about mistakes and omissions. But Mr Balbakakis and the workers there - and you rightly said so, Minister - had brought the whole thing to an end, despite the difficulties. We cannot ignore that. Dunia Miyatović, the rights commissioner, conquers the provisions of the bill. What's the plan for SYRIZA? Tens of thousands for decongestion from the islands in structures in the mainland, hotels, apartments, hospitality structures. You're all talking about Tasia Christodoulou. You have found and said now about'saving'. Be careful, the "remove" in relation to the thirteenth basement that you will put people now in detention. He's got a difference. Also when Tasia Christodoulou went to Europe, they still have the Greek delegation in Brussels and the ministers how it claimed redistribution in all the countries of Europe. And I close immediately and say that the citizenship, for which you are now being cut off for Antetokounbo, we have brought it and you have voted against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u635	Mr. Kamins has the floor from the Movement of Change.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u636	Thank you, Mr President. I will not go into the substance of the bill. That's enough. But I would like to express my strongest protest and say, as a professor of Constitutional Law and as an old member of the Scientific Agency, what qualities I still have, but I have ceased to practice for twenty-one years, when I went to the Citizens' Counselor, I feel like I have been in another universe. Otherwise I remember the legislative procedure to teach it at the university and to experience it as a member of the Scientific Agency, and I see it now. Perhaps we are discussing one of the four top five instruments of this Parliamentary Period. We put it in consultation for only four days, three of which were weekends. We are now discussing it in a single day and a climax of all this is that an amendment is being tabled at the moment where Parliament is actually asking for it to function as a laundry for illegal procedures by the Ministry of Citizens' Protection - past, but it does not matter - to rinse costs of EUR 40 million overnight and to accept the extension of the exemption provisions, on the basis of which public contracts have been entered into in the past for the refugee issue, which, if I recall correctly, the New Democracy then had denounced. I express my deepest regret, my strongest protest and this amendment, of course, and we shall vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u637	Mrs Diamanto Manolakou from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u638	Finally, I should like to say that we - both through the debate and the positions of the ministers - think that the refugee is not going to be treated, because as long as there are imperialist interventions and wars, they will also have refugee because that is the cause. Any controversy management between the parties of the New Democracy and SYRIZA that support imperialists will certainly not give a solution to the outrooted, because the root of evil is not addressed. We will vote against it and vote for any positive article there. But I would like to finish with the ministerial amendment tabled. We recognise that the costs due must be paid to beneficiaries. In this sense, we would prefer the articles to be separate, that is to say, the first we are positive, but not the other three that we reserve. In this sense we shall be expressed in terms of 'white'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u639	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Mr. Mylonakis has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u640	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have followed the debate on this serious bill, but a bill, which aims to incorporate foreigners who have entered Greece, who have been violently and wrongly, without asking for it and who should now remain in our country. This bill found many protectors, legal and non-law. It is a good thing that the Greek Parliament is legislating as one European Parliament, as if there were a European Parliament in which one state is not interested in the other. This bill incorporates the European Union directives, we have also discussed them at committee meetings. Minister, I believe it would be a good bill if it were to be mentioned in Germany or Austria or in other countries of central and northern Europe. It's not a bill for our country, it's not a problem at all. On the contrary, it grows and magnifies problems. Nor is the time to stay short, you will see it, and as the Prime Minister admitted, the flows will each day increase. So what do we do? They're coming to Greece. Of course there are illegal immigrants, as there are smugglers, as there are poachers. It's not a word that's frustrated by the vocabulary. Let's leave these fairy tales. It's not things we can talk about here. The issue is one: People get inside of all the tribes of Israel and remain locked in. Our country does not have the necessary bases to keep them, they will not leave here and we must finally understand that there is a war, a hybrid war, which will not stop. We have to do something to stir him up. This bill is a bill that will increase problems for the Greek people. But who listens to the Greek society? After all, the Deputy Minister, Mr Varvitsiotis, has said that we have the opportunity to impose our views. All right, then, go on, impose the views on Greek society, transfer illegal immigrants inside and from there you will have to do with each social group, every social class, which will begin to protest and rise to escalation. We will not vote on the articles in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u641	We're closing with Mrs. Bakadima from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u642	Thank you, Mr President. Given that I have been put to the whole bill in detail all these days, both in committee and in plenary today, I will be allowed to make three final comments. Firstly, as I have said in my prototype, this legislation considers that it creates more problems and will probably lead to a total of rejection requests and will deteriorate rather than improve the phenomenon. Secondly, we believe that it contains many articles that insist on its overall vote. In conclusion, I would like to express one final thought that I wish to share with you, since the Secretary of Mera25 is not in the Chamber at the moment. And it is extremely interesting that the majority rapporteur has now chosen, at the time when we are going to close the sitting, to refer to him. Let us all take into account, ladies and gentlemen, that we will all be judged by our actions, both citizens and history. And the attitude of each of us, positive or negative, towards today's bill will clearly be such an act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u643	Thank you to all the rapporteurs. I now give the floor to the Minister, Mr Chrysochide, to close the meeting. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u644	I would just like to say one word, since I thank everyone and all for their positions. Whether we agree or disagree, I believe that these four meetings in committee and in plenary have been a really rich debate. The fact that there are so many legislative improvements means that we have been very open to dialogue. We have accepted too many changes in what we have brought, we have been convinced by institutions, institutions and parties that some things had to change. That is the concept of democratic dialogue, that is the purpose we have been discussing for too many hours. I therefore think that the purpose has been achieved and I think it is one of the bills where there have been so many changes and so much consultation before and during the debate, which the democratic process has actually been vindicated and produced. I would also like to say that - because I have answered and referred to all the issues - we have had a very positive development these days. I am referring to the meeting in Germany yesterday and the good message from Europe that we are changing direction, namely that we are going to go to a new asylum law, to a new immigration policy, to a sense of solidarity from Europe, and these are signs of optimism that Europe can actually turn, work organised as an organization, as a union of states with rules, with weight distribution and solidarity. I really hope that's all the time. Thirdly, we have tabled an amendment. In fact, part of it is concerned with the settlement of irregularities that have occurred in previous years in the Ministry of Civil Protection, about EUR 40 million, which cannot be paid, but which must be paid. There's a huge accounting problem. This amendment is in agreement with the General Accounting Office of the State and I bring it here, because the Greek Parliament, the Parliament, must legislate in order to correct this anomaly. The second article also concerns an extension for a year, in order to allow emergency and urgent needs - we are always talking about the immigration issue - if problems arise, to go into exceptional procedures. Of course, it is also the issue of the TAF and food for penitentiary shops, which is very important since, within a short period of time, time-limits are due to be extremely critical of the supply of penitentiary stores. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u645	Thank you, Minister. The debate on the principle, articles and amendment of the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection is closed: 'According to international protection and other provisions'. Ladies and gentlemen, a request has been made for a roll-call vote on the start by Members of the Greek Party - Kyriakos Velopoulos. However, there is no number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote by members of the Greek Party - Kyriakos Velopoulos. The application is therefore rejected. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendment and the whole text, and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, a hundred and twenty articles, an amendment, a farewell article and the whole bill. Each time on the screen up to four articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendment, the hotel article and the whole. After you have registered your vote, you may check it or even revise it by the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u646	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u647	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u648	The draft Law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: ‘Approximately International Protection and other provisions’ has therefore been accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and on the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u649	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u650	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-31-S1-commons.u651	With the consent of the House at 1.58 minutes the sitting is closed for Friday, November 1, 2019 at 10: 00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
