ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-01-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 29-3-2019 authorisation, PB's minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau of the PB's PB's minutes on Friday, 29 March 2019, as regards the adoption of the draft law as a whole: ‘The harmonisation of Greek legislation by Directive (EU) 2016/943 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on the protection of know-how and business information which has not been disclosed (trade secret) from the illegal acquisition, use and disclosure of them (OJ L 157, 15.6.2016) - Measures to speed up the work of the Ministry of Economy and Development and other provisions’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate scheduled for today is not going to take place. More specifically, in today's bulletin there were sixteen topical questions and one question, of which there will be no debate on any of them for reasons which I shall speak immediately. The first question under number 439/22-32019 of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament Fotidis of the New Democracy, Christos Stakouras, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Confidences of guarantees of the Greek State on loans granted to private enterprises and natural disasters", will not be discussed because of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Finance, George Huliaraki, due to a workload. The second question under number 430/19-3-2019, topical question from the Independent MEP II of Athens Efstathios Panagoulis to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "By chemical and trabacisms, they tried to dismantle the peaceful palal rally for Macedonia in the Constitution", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Civil Protection Mr.Olga Gerovasilis, due to unsuccessful obligations. The first under No 440/22-32019 topical question from the New Democracy MP, Mr. Vassiliou Yoyakas, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Addressing serious outstanding outstandings regarding the approval of special treatments", will not be discussed due to a blockade by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Paul Paulakis, on account of a workload. The third question under number 416/12-3-2019, topical question by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy, George Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Tractical staff shortages at the Kilkis Hospital", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Paul Paul Polakis, due to a workload. The fourth under number 414/8-32019 topical question by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Integration Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Procedures for manoeuvres at the expense of the services provided by the ending of the pathological clinic of the Amalada Hospital", will not be discussed due to an obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis, due to a workload. The fifth under number 421/12-3-2019 topical question by MEP I of the Communist Party of Greece.Giannis Delis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "In suspension the surgical clinic of the General Hospital of Kilkis due to lack of staff", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Pavlos Polakis, due to a workload. Eleventh question under number 316/29-1-2019 of a second time question by the Member of the Laconia Parliamentary Association of Democratic Independent Leonida Gregorakos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Delays in the treatment of patients from the EKA in intensive treatment units due to a lack of medical staff", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Paul Paul Polakis, due to a workload. The twelfth under number 332/5-2-2019 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, on "the chronic problems of the psychiatric clinic at the University General Hospital of Heraklion (PANGN)" will not be discussed due to an impediment by Deputy Minister of Health, Paul Polakis, due to a workload. The thirteenth question under number 329/4-2-2019 of the new Republic MP Drama, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Creation of a short-stay section/oncological clinic at the General Hospital of Drama", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Pavlos Polakis, due to a workload. The fourteenth under number 322/4-2-2019 topical question by Congressman Larissa of Democratic Incorporation Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Exceedances with chemical treatments", will not be discussed due to a blockade by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Pavlos Polakis, due to a workload. The sixth question, under number 420/12-32019, is the second question of the Greek Parliamentary II of Thessaloniki, Mr. Athanasios Vardalis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning “The Greek Vehicle Industry “EL.VO.AB.””, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotou, due to a workload. The eighth under number 355/12-2-2019 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, on the transfer of real estate to a Public Real Estate Company (ETAD) - Fund for the Development of the Private Property of the Government (THEID) will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr.Eklidis Tsakalotou, due to a workload. The ninth under number 350/11-2-2019 topical question by Attica MP Georgios Vlachos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “The Support Account of the National Bank of Greece (LEPETE)”, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotou, due to a workload. The tenth under number 351/11-2-2019 topical question by the Member of Parliament of the Republican Association Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The feasibility and moderation of the transfer to the supreme building on the demand of the 50th of the public property in the Municipality of Pyrgos" will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotou, due to a workload. The question under number 2932/31-10-2018 of the circle of petitions and questions by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR K. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Democracy of the Municipal Closed Gymnasium of the 2nd High School of Athens", Agia Varvaras from the excess, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Finance, Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotou, due to a workload. The seventh question, with number 375/20-2-2019, is a second question for the Athens MP of the Democratic Incorporation Mr Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Participation of Greece in the European Union's defence cooperation", will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Minister of National Defence Mr.Evangelos Apostolakis, due to an extensive meeting with service actors on issues relating to the Minister's visit tomorrow with the Prime Minister in Northern Macedonia. The fifteenth, with number 262/9-1-2019, is a topical question for the Second Circuit of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "An urgent need for an increase in military service", will not be discussed. Ladies and gentlemen, by letter to the President of Parliament, Mr Adonis Georgiadis asked for a short-day absence abroad from 3 April to 5 April 2019 to be transferred to Germany, on the subject of a 'party mission'. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-01-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The Member of the New Democracy, Mr Nikolaos - Georgios Dendias, also requests permission from a short-day absence abroad for personal reasons from 2 April to 3 April 2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-01-S1-commons.u3	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-01-S1-commons.u4	With the consent of the House at 18.13 p.m., the sitting for the next Wednesday, 3 April 2019, at 12.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work, in accordance with the special agenda distributed.
