ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to the Parliament's 13-5-2019 authorisation, PKA's PKA's minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, on Monday 13 May 2019, as regards the adoption of the draft law as a whole: "Continuation of the Concession of the Project of the Financing Study - Operation - Maintenance and Operation of the New International Airports of Heraklion Crete and Study - Construction and Financing of the Roads of the Association and other provisions".]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only a discussion and a vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: "Adjustment of debts to Social Security Bodies, Tax Administration and O.T.A. (a) Degree, pension arrangements and other insurance and pension provisions, strengthening of the protection of workers and other provisions.’ The above draft law was characterised by the Government as urgent and by the Co-presidential Committees of Social Affairs, Economic and Public Administration, Public Order and Justice, in accordance with Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Let me remind you that the time is twelve minutes for the rapporteurs and special speakers with six-minute seconds. Parliamentary representatives have 12 minutes, without the right to secondary education and five minutes for speakers. Time is on the basis of the Rules of Procedure and Rule 110 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure with the status of urgency.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u2	Since the emergency is not applicable.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u3	It has been classified as urgent, Mr President, and so it has come. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 6 May 2019 to discuss the draft law at two meetings. I propose that the debate should be uniform in principle, articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u4	The House has agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u5	No, Mr. President! You're welcome to speak!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u6	Wait a minute, Mr. Katatotis. I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u7	No, we don't agree!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u8	We agree, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u9	Do you not agree to go to two meetings, to discuss a uniform principle, articles and amendments? Didn't you agree to that at the Conference of Presidents?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u10	No, we're talking!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u11	We don't agree because the situation has changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u12	It'll be recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u13	Can I speak on a point of order, Mr President, or will you remove it from us?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u14	Have I ever removed the word from anyone?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u15	Lots of times!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u16	"Many times"? Tell me one I've removed your word, Mr. Koutsuko!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u17	Now can we have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u18	No, I want you to tell me the times I've removed the word from someone. I want you to tell me the times that I personally have removed the floor. Not to say airplanes'many times' to create impressions. Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u19	You're right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u20	You watch where you're up there!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u21	I take very good care.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u22	Give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u23	I'll give you the floor, I haven't refused it. If you wish, all the parliamentary representatives will be given the floor in turn. If ever possible! Mr Manda, do you want the floor as a parliamentary representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u24	No, no, I don't. I agree with the procedure you have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u25	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative is not here. Come on, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u26	Mr President, I pointed out at the committee meeting, which was half the House, that this bill with the hundred and twenty instalments, as it was introduced, was given no time and brought it to us by the urgency procedure, so too many bodies could not attend because we notified them ten minutes before the hearing of the bodies. I would remind you that the GSC did not attend, there was no attendance by the HR and a number of others. The government, therefore, in front of its panic in the electoral crash today tabled four important amendments. I recognize them as important. I would therefore like to ask you, Mr President, to ensure that the debate does not become uniform on the bill and the amendments. I would like, in other words, to see the amendments that overthrow the budgetary framework that the government has voted on with the medium-term budgetary strategy programme and which share advances, enable us to place ourselves separately. It is not possible in a 12-minute prology to deal with all these major issues that concern the country's progress and the commitments made by the government. This is my appeal to you, because I have heard SYRIZA's colleagues complain that the five minutes you give them are very few. So this is my call to the Bureau and I very much ask you to put it in this House's crisis to give us the opportunity to have more time and time. That's my request.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u27	Good. I heard you, Mr. Kutsuko. I would like to make a proposal on procedure and from there - if you like - either agree or disagree. The time is because of the urgency. However, I propose that there should be a relative tolerance. And we certainly need to give two minutes or three minutes to a relative tolerance for parliamentarians, if necessary, only the rapporteurs have this right - so that we have an integrated debate and can all be placed. Mr. Shahinides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u28	I'm sure you'll have to give us extra time to do the dentures. But I think it is hypocritical, because at the hearing of the bodies there was not a single party from the so-called constitutional arc, which asked even one question for the bodies. So a number of parties are coming to plenary today and they are playing it that they are being cut off for this draft law, while in the committee they did not ask half the questions to any of the bodies at the hearing. I'm telling you this to be recorded in the Minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u29	It's been recorded, Mr. Comrade. Mr Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u30	Mr President, we have also spoken to the committee on the urgent matter. Since all these amendments containing the Prime Minister's announcements have been tabled - which were not included in this bill - I think that the relevant time should be given. In other words, the time of fifteen minutes and of dentistry should be given in order to put both the amendments and the whole package which has been announced and which is considered to be positive measures. In the time of twelve minutes with one tolerance - as you said - we will not be able to place ourselves on the whole bill and on the amendments. Give the normal time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u31	Mr Catatotis, I understand you. I have read, and on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, that we agree at 15 minutes for the rapporteurs. We will remain in five minutes for speakers with a certain tolerance and will also have the parliamentary representatives - those who, if they want - have the right to one second, so that the debate can be constructive on the whole. Mr. Mandas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u32	I think we will have the comfort to discuss on the substance. Everything else is mostly. In any case, I would like to agree with the proposal that the rapporteurs should have fifteen minutes and have a relative tolerance for the speakers, because there are indeed big issues and everyone should be placed with sufficient authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u33	That's what I said. I suggested that there should be a relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u34	I therefore agree with your view, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u35	There will be relative tolerance. Because - you understand - if we agree at seven minutes, it will go with the tolerance of nine minutes. So it can't be that way.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u36	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u37	Your colleague spoke. I did not know that you asked for the floor on a point of order, Mr Pappa. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u38	I take the floor not to delay and delay the process, but there must finally be a restoration of the truth. Mr Koutsoukos said earlier about the bodies that were called - and that was really unacceptable on the part of the government - at the last minute and perhaps more than an hour. With Mr. Koutsouko of KINAL, PASOK - how am I supposed to say it now? - we had called for an agency, for him, for the "AXIA", that is, the widows, etc. The difference is from now on, Mr Kutsuko. Even though there is a problem, and despite all the tripods that the government is putting in to prevent the "Axia" from coming and the "burned" trade union organization from coming, "Adrasi", we called and took leave to bring "Axia" to the House, to speak, while you who are trying to rob situations and Mrs. Gennimata goes to Larissa and takes pictures of facebook etc. You didn't even call. And I say that so that the Greek people can hear it and know what's going on in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u39	What kind of provocation are these now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u40	Mr President, please speak!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u41	I'm sorry. I haven't heard. Because I was in agreement with the Bureau, I have not heard of a correction. So you have the floor, Mr. Loverdos, on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u42	We expressed our views on the procedure with Mr Kutsuko. We're not going to repeat it. We all support what our colleague said. He expressed us. Here now was created by Golden Dawn a subject that no one expected. And no one expected it, and why it's not related to what we're talking about right now, and why it's completely false, 1000% false, and I denounce it. Because we, as a government, have rejected this regulation for four years - I personally have two of them. When this particular arrangement was made by the so-called left, we voted against it. I'm the first MP to see women who have this problem. I brought it to the House. As a party, we made first speeches with Mrs Genomemas. And now he tells us they got permission to enter the agency, etc. I denounce it. She's false what she says and I'm asking him to get it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u43	Mr President, the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u44	Mr. Poppa, I don't think we should keep giving up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u45	I don't get anything back. I wonder why retired people don't want him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u46	Mr. Pappa, you don't sound. It is not about the procedure at the moment. Do you intend to withdraw any of the things you said?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u47	Nothing! No line!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u48	Well, it's still in the Minutes and we're on. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and were toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", twenty-two students and students and three teachers from the 40th Municipal School of Heraklion. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] On the basis of Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Tsakalotos, like Mrs Ahtsoglou, has the floor from the competent ministers if I am not mistaken. Mr. Tsakalotos will start his position because he wants to present something.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u49	As long as the Minister talks about opening the record.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u50	Of course, the list of speakers will be opened as long as the Minister talks and will be closed with the completion of the rapporteur for the Civilian Representation. So it will also open up the record system for the Members of Parliament. The Minister has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, I will overcome my panic - Mr Koutsoukos says - in front of the crash, presenting these measures that I am sure will turn the climate against us! But I would like to start for one or two minutes with the good news of the day. I've been used to you since we got out of the memorandum every time I talk to you, telling you the good news. I'm not telling you what's happened to exports, since we don't have any new evidence. I'm not telling you what has happened to the investments, since we don't have any new evidence. But let me tell you the good news from the last time I spoke on economic matters and not on the motion of censure we had on Friday. From the new details of ELSTAT, from 2015 to 2017, poverty fell by 2 percentage points. The material deprivation fell by 3.5 percentage points. The proportion of people with need for medical examinations or treatments that have not been satisfied fell two units. Inequality in income distribution in 2017, the so-called Gini indicator, reached the level of crisis at the lowest point... [[Noise in the Chamber]] I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen, you may not be interested in this for society, but may I have your attention?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u52	Come on, gentlemen! I'm sorry, Minister. Anyone who doesn't want to watch the minister can have his conversations out.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u53	Inequality in income allocation in 2017, the so-called Gini indicator reached its pre-crisis level, i.e. at the lowest point since 2010. The school leak in 2017 fell to 4.7%, while 2014 was 9%. Doctors per thousand inhabitants have been at the highest levels since 2006. I'm going to the real economy, where you have the greatest objections. IHS MARKIT’s seasonally adjusted procurement ratio for the processing sector in Greece was set at 56.6 points in April. I would remind you that what is above 50 means that we have more processing, more in this sector. This is the greatest improvement recorded since June 2000. The PMI for the manufacturing sector in Greece remained positive, above 50 points for the twenty-third month in a row. This means that, from June 2017 to April 2019, operating conditions in the manufacturing sector have been continuously improving. Finally, household consumption expenditure in the fourth quarter of 2018 increased by 1.4% compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous year. You understand, how panic this news creates! So let's go to the main amendments. You know why you've read them in the papers. I started with this to see that these amendments are put in a general framework of economic recovery. It could have been better, but that is the framework, a framework for recovery in all areas. We now go to the VAT rate, where the reduced VAT rate comes back to 13% in basic foodstuffs from the normal rate of 24%, as, for example, the kinds of pasta - for us who are pasta - is particularly important! - species of fish and vegetables, mainly prepared in canned and miscellaneous cereal-based foods - for those who like healthy nutrition - such as corn flakes, bars of cereals, etc. In SYRIZA there are few of them! I don't know if they're more in New Democracy and KINAL! It forms part of the over-reduced VAT rate of 6% of the reduced rate of 13% which has so far been the case for electricity supply and gas supply. The reduced VAT rate of 13% on restaurant, bakery, pastry, pastry, with the exception of the disposal of beverages, juices and beverages is restored. The proposed provisions are expected to stimulate the market, strengthen the country's competitive position in the tourism sector and strengthen consumer income. After August 2018 I want you to find an area where a Greek woman or a Greek woman has not been helped. Do you want to talk about new couples who can now get a housing subsidy? You want to talk about the kids and all the work that the Ministry of Labour has done? Do you want to talk about unemployment, where more people are in employment? Do you want to talk about energy poverty and the people now we're helping? You want to talk about the little mamazators? You see that, contrary to what you said, we have come out of the crisis, from the memorandum, we are dealing with the main problems of the crisis with the bill that we have in front of the hundred and twenty instalments both in insurance and in tax, but also in debt to the local government, namely the problems we have inherited from the past and, at the same time, we are setting up a framework of measures within our possibilities as far as we can, within the calculated amount - in advance, Mr Kutsukouko, and not in the end, because you have previously accused us of doing so at the end and that we are making surpluses - so that we can lighten the Greek household as well. With regard to the question that they asked us at first when we got out of the memorandum when Greek and Greek will see it in his pocket, with this bill and these amendments - and I have not spoken at all about the pensions that we will shortly be talking about - we understand that slowly within the range of our possibilities each Greek and every Greek and all the children will be able to see in their pockets. After the basic amendments we have debated, I would also like to refer to some other amendments that have been tabled. I don't know if they've shared. One amendment is preventive control, where we have been legislating there for two years to stop this preventive control. He stopped at the ministries. We had some implementation problems in local government and hospitals. We have different speeds that can assimilate the new framework and, therefore, this amendment gives an opportunity, especially in local government, to be able to have skills, knowledge with lessons so that they can replace preventive control, which I am sure you agree is something bureaucratic, something that delays procedures. There's a pension provision for the GCC. Mrs Ahtsoglou, who is not in the public sector, can speak here about the main pensions. However, this provision is for pensions which are public where there is indeed a delay and what this provision does is that it builds working groups from both the GCC and the ETUC so that the public pensions process can be accelerated. Finally, we have a very procedural amendment to extend the deadline for determining the remuneration of specific categories of staff. It's a point of order. It shall be extended until the end of the year by the deadline for the adoption of decisions setting the remuneration of special categories instead of 1 June 2019. It concerns, for example, presidents and members of independent authorities, administrative bodies and others.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u54	What's the point of doing this?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u55	It's a technical reason. We're not making a deadline. It's an extension of deadlines. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the speech and presentation of the amendments, I do not think we should repeat what we said from Wednesday to Friday. I think the Greek people have realised that the entire account of the New Democracy has been disproved. I think you've put too much weight into it that sometime we're going to fall. So you've put too much weight on the fact that we'd either fall because we wouldn't close the ratings for either the Prespes or another matter. You didn't get that out. I think that boomerang is being created and I think at some point you should have decided that we will not fall that way and the reason why we will not fall out of this is that there was a plan of how we get out of the crisis and from the memorandum and how we will manage the best days. We don't say everything is pomegranate. Much of the Greek people are still suffering and in a difficult position. What else would it be like if you lost one quarter of GDP? However, we say that these amendments and the amendment that you will be listening to in two minutes are part of a draft budget, social and development plan, and that is what we are going to go to the European elections and that is what we are going to win the national elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u56	Thank you, Minister Chakaloto. The Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mrs Ahtsoglou, has asked for the floor. How long do you need, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u57	Not five minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u58	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to briefly present to you the amendment we are tabling today concerning the granting of the new thirteenth pension. It is a new thirteenth special architecture, which I will be re-examined. This is a regulation that reasonably reinforces and on a permanent basis - and I should particularly like to stress - the incomes of pensioners from now on and for the whole of their lives. It is an amendment whereby we practically support those who have lifted and the greatest burden of the austerity policies, the two and a half million pensioners who have lifted and the greatest burden of the austerity policies and have suffered huge reductions in their incomes cumulatively, especially in 2010-2014. The structure of this new thirteenth pension is well known, we have described it since last Tuesday in Zappeion with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. For pensioners who receive a main pension of up to EUR 500 will be 100% of the pension, from EUR 500 to EUR 600 will be 70% of the pension, from EUR 600 to EUR 1,000 will be 50% of the pension and from EUR 1,000 and up to 30% of the pension. We're talking about the thirteenth pension, the new thirteenth pension. These increases I have described will apply to the amount of the main gross pension, the main pension. We therefore put aside the supplementary pension received by the insured person, the pensioner - the vast majority of pensioners receive a supplementary pension, we put this aside - and we calculate the increases I have described to you on the basis of the amount of the main pension. If he receives more basic pensions, then we sum up the basic pensions and calculate on this new amount the percentage of the increase in the thirteenth pension. The clarification I make in relation to the subsidiary is of value because the way I described you is greater support for the pensioners' income. If a pensioner has a basic pension of EUR 500 and an ancillary EUR 170, he will receive a third pension of EUR 500. In other words, we will not count on the subsidiary to take a step up and get a lower percentage. Mr Tsakalotos said before that these measures with the amendments we are presenting today must be seen in the overall framework that is being introduced, namely in the context of the recovery of the economy and the recovery of public finances. And we must approach them as a whole, that is to say, to see how each one of these measures actually strengthens a very large social group. This also applies primarily to pensions. In pensions, however, in particular, I would like you to see this also in the context of the overall effort we are making to restore the public social security system. When we started our efforts in 2015, we received an insurance system on the limits of the collapse, with a huge deficit following twelve successive horizontal pension cuts - many of which were considered unconstitutional and create the turmoil by claiming retroactive pensioners - with many, four hundred thousand unpaid pensions in our drawers and a very large debt of the insurance funds. We have made a structural reform which has made clear, clear, fair, transparent rules for calculating contributions and pensions. We have therefore put the system on a new basis, on a new solid basis, on this basis, which shows that it will also be sustainable for the next few decades, we have converted the deficit that we have received in surplus, we have been able to make changes to the basis of the calculation of the contributions of the freelance professionals so that free trade can be reduced, we are moving the bill with the hundred and twenty instalments and I hope that tomorrow it will be voted on. So, in fact, the insured are being lightened by the burdens of the past and we are actually completing this great effort to bring about the public social security system, as well as the insured and retired, with the introduction of this new tenth pension, which will come on a permanent basis. So you realise that this is a very big step in a great effort, which has been taking place over the last four years, to have a healthy insurance policy and finally, from now on, only to talk about aid measures for pensioners' incomes and the relief of insured persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Ahchioglu. We are starting with the rapporteur of SYRIZA Mr Vardakis. The system for the registration of speakers is still open. It will be closed after Mr Brutsi's speech has been completed. As we agreed, you have 15 minutes at your disposal, Mr Vardakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. A while ago the Greek Parliament ratified the contract at the airport in Kastelli, the best development project in Crete, but also in the country, I would say. After seventeen years it was just and it was done. The third pension, VAT reduction, and that was fair and acted. The Minister's analysis, but also the Minister's, does not give rise to misinterpretations. In my dentistry, I'm going to make a specific placement. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion of the Ministry of Labour's draft law on the regulation of an hundred and twenty instalments coincided last week with the leading process of voting confidence in the government. And I say this because through both parliamentary procedures we have enabled the Greek people to understand once again who is with the many and who are with the few, which government promotes the society of solidarity, democracy, equal rights and equal opportunities, which government has been sensitive to society as a whole and has remained firm in its commitments to the worker, the insured, the pensioner, to the vulnerable groups. Ladies and gentlemen, as much as you do not like, we are fighting, fighting and will continue to fight with all our powers, so that in a number of critical fields we can implement policies in favour of the social majority. And that's the big difference between us. We're two different worlds. That's why I really call it a disgrace to move the finger into today's government, which from the outset showed its sensitivity to society as a whole. So we are introducing this bill today, initially to give our fellow citizens, public debtors, to finally settle the debts of the past, debts created by these people's objective inability to pay from their funds insurance contributions in the years of the economic crisis, and to meet their obligations towards tax administration. What was the result, however, of the inactivity of all the previous governments who were not next to these people? To find these people in debt in public, not to be able to obtain insurance information, neither for themselves nor for their children can they submit a claim for retirement, even if they have completed pension years. We today want to give a great deal of relief to these people, to whom a second opportunity must be given, and to introduce themselves into regulation on favourable terms and conditions. With regard to the provision of a hundred and twenty instalments to the insurance funds, the debtors who have closed their books may be subject to any transaction with the IKA, employers' debts from insurance contributions of workers, pensioners, particularly self-employed persons, namely farmers and professionals, who, although they have a pension right, were unable to receive their pension because they owed large sums of money to their funds. The bill provides that especially for OGA members who complete the sixty-seventh year by 31-12-2019 the pension ceiling is EUR 6,000 out of EUR 4,000. The arrangement will be subject to the full debts created by 31-12-2018. For non-employees, the main debt created from 1-1-2002 to 31-12-2016 is recalculated upon the choice of the debtor. There will be a 85% discount on all the surcharges, additional fees and interest due to unpaid payments. Monthly instalments may not exceed one hundred and the minimum amount of the set monthly dose may not be less than EUR 50. The OGA provides that debts created up to 31/12-2018 may be subject to a 100% discount on all increments, additional fees and interest due to a non-permanent payment, as established by the date of the arrangement. The debt is repaid in a hundred and twenty monthly instalments, with a minimum payment of 30 euros. And since all these categories are subject to and comply with the conditions of the arrangement, they will be able to receive insurance information and criminal prosecutions and enforcement measures against them. With regard to the system for regulating certified debts in the DUs, audit centres and customs, for natural persons the arrangement will extend up to a hundred and twenty instalments, based on citizens' tax capacity. The scope of the arrangement is the whole of the citizens, for all their certified debts which have become due up to 31-12-2018. For an income of up to 10 thousand euros, it will be possible to adjust to up to a hundred twenty instalments with the minimum payment of 30 euros. For incomes exceeding 10 thousand euros, a progressive rate shall be applied to determine the possibility of repayment of each debtor and the number of instalments according to his or her debt. There is a reduction in rates according to the number of children. The one-off payment will lead to a 100% rebate. There is a reduction in surcharges and interest rates up to 90% if the debtor chooses a lower number of instalments than the one proposed by the tax administration. The minimum number of doses will be eighteen. Basic debts of up to EUR 3 000 for debtors with an income of up to EUR 10 000 will not be charged with interest and surcharges. For legal persons of a speculative nature two types of arrangements are introduced according to the type of debt. For regular debt, i.e. income tax, HICP, etc., the arrangement will include up to eighteen instalments. For default debts, legacy taxes or taxes, which are paid one-off, it will include up to thirty instalments. This is where we need to see, Minister, if we can do better. The one-off payment will lead to a 100% rebate. For legal persons of a non-profit-making nature and legal persons governed by public law, an arrangement shall be introduced similar to that for natural persons, taking into account the particular nature of those legal persons. In addition, a system of adjustment of the debts to the first grades and their legal entities is introduced. In other words, we will again give the opportunity, as we have done with Law 4483/2017, to respond to their long-term financial obligations in a way that restores normality to their financial planning and enables them to regain the consistency of the payment of the relevant debts. The above-mentioned debts if a one-off payment is made have a 100% increase exemption and an exemption of 80% to 50% depending on the number of instalments awarded. Ladies and gentlemen, the present government has done, does and will continue to do what it has to do with a sense of responsibility towards the insured, the retired, the worker. Today the country's insurance system is sustainable and that gives us the right and we can do these corrective actions. Favourable changes are made to the pension scheme of beneficiaries in cases of death, to the satisfaction of all the fair and reasonable demands of the particular category of persons concerned. At the same time, it provides for a series of interventions, such as on the basis of the calculation of the death rate, the percentage of the beneficiary, the minimum duration of the married life and the duration of the insurance capacity of the indirect members. We were, we are, and we remain firm in our commitments to implement measures in favour of the world of work. We have demonstrated this throughout the past period with a series of legislative instruments which we have brought to the vote to combat undeclared, declared and unpaid work, for the even greater strengthening of workers' rights, for the reintroduction of collective bargaining. And then for you it was an election period. Today's bill continues exactly the same path, as we promote interventions to strengthen the protection of workers' rights by strengthening the dignity of work and by introducing new tools. We are coming to satisfy the European Committee on Social Rights' demands on the concept and content of the workers' right to adequate compensation or other appropriate redress in the event of dismissal without good reason. We are coming to ensure the safety and health of workers in the distribution and transport of products and articles. All these workers for you until yesterday didn't exist. We ensure that workers are promptly informed about the essential elements of their work relationship. Institutional and audit mechanisms shall be strengthened to ensure the practical application of the existing rules by preventing infringements. With regard to the part of social solidarity, the bill contains provisions on the housing allowance, the extraordinary financial assistance paid to the families of persons who have lost their lives by earthquake or other natural phenomena, but also privileged benefits paid by the OPEK for which they are provided for as duty-free, are not subject to any detention, are not seized, are not offset by debts. Ladies and gentlemen, this government has shown in practice that it protects the worker, the insured person, the pensioner and the vulnerable groups and puts all the means available to strengthen their position. This is what we have done with the integration of the funds, with the consolidation of the rules in the context of the equal treatment of pensioners and insured persons, by the reintroduction of collective negotiations, by the strengthening of controls on undeclared and alleged work, by the imposition of strict sanctions in cases of employer arbitrary. They were just demands of the social majority and are acted upon by the current government. Today it comes to a vote another important bill that actually touches the daily lives of millions of citizens and gives breath. Ladies and gentlemen, because I have listened to the committees too, you will allow me - I did not intend to do so - to remind you of a few things. As I said at first, we're really two different worlds. Your world is the one who reduced the minimum wage in one night. It's your world that legislated the gruesome underwent wages. It's your world that's been reduced eleven times, with eleven law pensions, allowances and gifts. It is your world that has come to cut off even the unemployment fund. It's your world that closed down utilities. Let me remind you: Post Bank, Work Housing, OEK. It's your world that fired primary police officers, school guards, doctors and teachers. It is your world that, by mouth, Mr. Mitsotakis - I don't know why you forgot - that collective agreements are SYRIZA's ideal. You will never forget that, because the Greek people will never forget it. It's your world that created the armies of the unemployed. It's your world that sent our children migrants. It's your world that devalued local government by reducing its resources to 50% and 60%. It is your world that has led to the deindustrialisation of the country, exploding unemployment to 27%. It's your world that's done a profession of corruption, complexity and lawlessness. It is your world that has created no prospect of development in the primary sector. We only inherited fines for illegal subsidies that went into "herds" pockets. Listen carefully to me, ladies and gentlemen, especially from you, we do not accept - and understand it well - lessons of morality and sensitivity, because you are the ones who have shown the door of exit to poor, helpless, insecure, uninsured, insecure hospitals, depriving them of the supreme good of medical care. All of this and so many others are your world that abolished every concept of law and dissolved the social fabric of the country. Our world is the world that has tried and tried and largely managed to restore the dignity of a proud people, the Greek people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is our rightful world, it lightens all those who disproportionately lifted burdens in the years of the crisis. We're in the middle of the road. We want to do more and we'll do it. We'll be there by the end of the road. Be sure that the Greek people judges us all not by our words but by our works. And believe me, in this crisis your rating is below the base. I didn't mean to say it, but I'll say it and justify it here. As for the seven days of work, with flexible forms of employment, let me say that not us, but the Greek people will not allow you to turn the country into the working ages that you had taken before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr. Vardakis. Mr Brutsis, rapporteur of the New Democracy, has the floor for 15 minutes. You have the right to sign up to the end of the speech by my colleague. Here, Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the happy country with the happy people that Mr Chakalotos described earlier, there is the other side. It is the side of the middle-class people who, from the policy of SYRIZA, overtaxation and tax extermination, have been lost. It is the side of the pensioners who, compared to 2014, have lost two pensions with your laws and is another in view of the tax-free amount for which I will be placed in detail. And there are the workers you forget and diligently twist the truth. For the first time in 2017, our country had the negative championship in Europe, minus 3.5% in wages. European Champion! That's the truth. It is the other side, the unseen, which is compared to 2014 and is your own result of your own economic policy. But today we do not only have to discuss the bill that the Minister of Finance supported just before, namely the one hundred and twenty-dollar bill and your two amendments. We have to talk about three amendments and the bill. And I will prove within this short time that I have as rapporteur your hypocrisy, your lies, your poaching, and, of course, your gangs, like the one you did yesterday. However, I will not fail to mention the return to the political past of Mavroyalures, what you are trying today to get an election bonus in front of the election defeat that is coming. As if you were - I see you - set up outside the polling divisions to give money to retired people and say "Hey, who we are". That's what we're going to show up for now. So I begin, ladies and gentlemen, to remind you of the importance: in Greece in 2017 - I would ask you to present it for the Minutes - with the ILO report - this is a trick - minus 3.5% wages, a negative European champion, while in 2014 plus 1.9%. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Secondly, the wages that EKA presents are those of yours, namely the service. Listen to this: In 2018 one out of three employees are paid with 322 euros. Please, I submit to the Minutes the famous SYRIZA wages of EUR 322 less than the unemployment allowance! It is all the three years that unfortunately show the path of wage developments in Greece. Worse than 2017 and worse than 2016. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And on this, if one adds the results of "ERGANI", which you do not question and now invoke daily in your bills and your conversation, while once you called it "montazier", flexible forms of employment are dominant, i.e. after 1 January 2015 when SYRIZA came out, flexibility in the labour market has absolute sovereignty over all new recruitments. That's your policy. And what does that mean? It means very simply, Minister of Finance, that I remember in this Chamber - we also remember the representations made by the Constitution that you protested on the tables and when you came here - that you committed yourself to resigning if you did not raise the tax free from the 9,600 euros that you received in 2014 at 12,000 euros. Is there anyone who's forgotten about it? That's what you said! You downloaded it twice. And you know what this means in terms of retired and working conditions? A pension lost from 1-1-2020 and a salary lost for workers paid at the average price of 777 euros, the average salary. And those who took the lowest, they're all going to lose it. That's why you're hypocrites. Because today you are trying to alter a picture and present it quite different. So here's what we need to discuss today. Will you vote, Mr Tsakalote and Mrs Ahtsioglu, on the New Democracy amendment giving a wage and a pension? Please, I'm tabling it for the Minutes. You have to answer that. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As regards the issue left by the SYRIZA rapporteur towards the end, which concerns employment issues and is also topical, yesterday the President of the New Democracy, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, in a truly responsible and realistic dialectic position, said the priorities of the New Democracy, said the axes, and of course said some things about labour issues, which are not a reality that cannot be disputed by anyone. And all SYRIZA called to say that's not true. Listen to me: Mrs Ahtsoglu, do you remember anything about order number 82 operational contract 93/27-3-2017? Ladies and gentlemen, I blame you not on you, the Minister and the Prime Minister who raised this issue and those who did not know of it, on behalf of SYRIZA, for absolute hypocrisy and distortion of truth. Of course, the extension of the five-day operation of the "PASTRATOS" plant in seven days was something necessary and it was very good, because that was exactly what the agreement between workers and business was, because it brought 300 million to Greece, because it created four hundred jobs. And in the end, Mrs Ahtsoglou, this is your signature for the business contract, for which, as a gafa, from Mr. Tsipras to SYRIZA, you said - please, I submit the operational contract, it is posted in the Ministry of Labour and all the Greek people can see it, for the hypocrisy and lies of SYRIZA - that you accept what Mr Mitsotakis has been denounced yesterday. Well, who are liars and hypocrites?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u65	And the most bizarre and steadfast is that on 27-8-2017 Mr Tsipras himself went to the factory of "PASTRATO" and said, accompanied by the Minister of Labour, that here is really a great success that labour law is maintained, and today he called the "working gallery". Are you hypocrites and liars or aren't you? What do you answer that? Isn't that hypocrisy? Of course! Gentlemen of SYRIZA are waiting for another surprise, which the Greek people will unfortunately find out by step of the House today. We're forced to call her because we're going to give her light. In addition, Mrs Ahtsoglou and Mr Tsipras reported on a seven-day job. Let me say it again: for seven days' work! Which is untrue, that's not it. We talked about expanding the day in the seven days so that the operation can be held. Mrs Ahtsoglou, the FEK 4419 with the signature of the SYRIZA Government - I do not personalise it to Mrs Ahtsoolgos, Minister - is the FEK accompanying a collective sectoral contract. This convention, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA - and from tomorrow to tomorrow go out and apologize, we do not make it a matter, but we highlight your hypocrisy - speak for seven days of work in the world of tourism. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. Take them, share them, see who brings the seven days of work into the world of work, first time in labour law. We denounce you as the ultimate hypocrites. You must apologise for that! [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned FEC, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The committee closed the other day with Mr Petropoulos's speech, who said the incredible for the "ELIOS" system. You know, ELIOS is the most innovative tool and one of the greatest innovations in the insurance system. We didn't know before 2013 how many pensioners we had. We had monkey pensions. On 1 June 2013 Greece changed its view on insurance. We won the monkey pensions, we learned the full numerical and mapping of the insurance. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] Since then, this edition every month, on the tenth day of the next month, regularly came out. Then we learned the mapping and the numbers for the insurance. Look out! This Regulation shall enter into Its publication is gone for more than a year and a half. Mr Katrugalos is Minister and, in a timely question to the House, please tell us what is going on. No answer. And he comes the day before yesterday, after his re-issue, Mr. Petropoulos makes the unbelievable, unrelenting. He reads from the figures of "HLIOS" and says: "SYRIZA pensions increased, compared to New Democracy". Is there a SYRIZA MEP who believes it, honestly? Let's go to the evidence now. I went and analyzed the evidence. These two issues are listed in the HRD. Since 2015, it has become the greatest poaching! But that's who you are! Change the method of calculating pensions and put on pensions and what the pensioner never receives, i.e. the EOGY contribution, and put the contribution in favour of EOGF. I'm posing SYRIZA's smuggling, so retired people can't go through here. We are the ones who can study and know and know what is happening, Mrs Ahtsoglou. You're exposed! You changed the elements of the most reliable tool available. You inflated with 1.4 billion in retired people's pockets, who never got them, to show with your propaganda and return to Blackyalism that retired people get more money than in 2014. That's the truth. That's the reality. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We shall now proceed to the subject of the amendments. First and foremost, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of VAT. The issue of VAT that the government is currently putting forward is an attempt to reduce from the high rate of 24% to 13% a piece of products that, in the common name of the market, are called a focus. That's the VAT on the focus, and we took him to 13%, Mr. Chakaloto. You took him and took him to 24%. And with this 24%, which is now praised, you say you're reducing, you're doing an infinite job. You do a job in which, basically, 55% of those affected by the focus VAT stays outside. That is why the second amendment that you will be dealing with today, colleagues of the SYRIZA, is the one that the New Democracy will present shortly and will be the real reduction in VAT on the whole focus, as we have done in 2014 and as we say in our economic programme. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So will you be invited to answer: Will you vote on reducing the VAT on the focus where you received it in 2014 or will you say that you have reduced the VAT and you will still be far away from 2014? Let's go to the point about the pension section. Fortunately, there is ELIOS too, because if we did not have the evidence, we could not haunt the reality. What did you do to your pension? You came in 2015. We agreed at that time with the troika that the insurance policy has balanced and met sustainability conditions. Did Brutsis say so, the former Minister, the government then? Not just them. It was said in the first proportionate study in Greece, which fulfilled the sustainability conditions until 2060. So, they didn't need any reductions. That is why in e-mail Hardouvelis the insurance interventions were only 300 million. In fact, we had closed the pension issue. The 16% of GDP we agreed on as a cut-down cost was fulfilled. You went out, you blew it all up, we lost several billion, GDP fell and you had to make a new adjustment to insurance. Well, then... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Yes, GDP fell, because there was a recession in 2015 and 2016, while there was a outlook for 3.5% and 3.7% in 2015 and 2016. That's why we'd agreed on the piece of insurance. And what did you do then? You've reduced your pensions. All new pensioners in Greece will have 35%, after the Kakrugalou law, a reduction in the main pension and 45% in the subsidiary. What about today's? Anything? Didn't you hurt anything? How you didn't hurt. Listen up. The ESS lost by the low pensioners was 970 million to 1 billion. One more thing you're omissioning. Like the EASA is 1 billion, the health contribution is 750 million a year, as you increased health contributions to both subsidiary and main pensions. And you come today and you return 800 million and you celebrate! It's welcome, but don't say you've taken the big step. Pensions were unfairly cut after 2014. I wish we had stayed in 2014. I wish the pensions were in 2014. We took a long drive, we lost a lot of money, taxpayers lost too much money in their pocket and we try to return to 2014 and we haven't done it. I would like to say something to Mrs Ahtsioch - I will reply to her for the first time - before going into the matter of the arrangements that are very important. I can hear Mrs Ahtsoglou saying what she has received to the level of outstanding pensions. For a while, I didn't analyze it that much, because I thought he meant that he had received it from Mr. Katrugalo. He says he received four hundred thousand outstanding pensions. Mrs Ahtsoglou is responsible - she is Minister - for the smuggling carried out in the electronic register of pending pensions. Through this complaint, which the Ministry has never answered and which remains pending, it has proved that the outstanding pensions today are two hundred and fifty thousand. They expect two hundred and fifty thousand beneficiaries of their pension. Mr. Loverdos, I want you to hear this because it's your concern too. Mrs. Ahchioglu, claim that you received four hundred thousand outstanding pensions. I'm holding a piece of paper in my hands. I want the journalists to hear it. For many months, I didn't answer. It is a document of SYRIZA, Minister of State, Yiannis Stathas. Do you remember him? He was a member of SYRIZA. Thank God he was there and asked the question. Ask Mr. Army, SYRIZA MPs, how many pensions he received from Brutsi in 2015. I read: 'Expensive pensions are sixty-six thousand two hundred twenty and their extradition is between two and six months'. Here's who you are! Your papers are betraying you! Your own Member gives the answer to what you received! And today there are two hundred and fifty thousand! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I shall conclude, Mr President, on the subject of regulation. Listen. This is a major national issue for the economy. I demonstrated with number that the famous regulation of the hundred doses of SYRIZA fulfilled and satisfied only eight thousand people, of a million four hundred thousand debtors. With this famous hundred-dollar arrangement you won the elections, Mr. Chakaloto. He's failed miserably. We will vote for the regulation of the hundred and twenty instalments. There's unfinished business that doesn't come in. But be careful. For the sake of the economy some questions need to be answered. Why did the 100 dose adjustment fail? Why? We need to find the causes. Secondly, why were the debts committed at EUR 140 billion, from the EUR 75.1 that you received the debts to the State, to the funds and to the insurance? Thirdly, what makes you think that this arrangement will be the last and will succeed in alleviating the world, which really owes it? There is also a top issue, which I think we should all see as a whole. The answer is - I will give it to you easily - the conduct of economic policy. The suffocation of taxi, the suffocation of insurance contributions, brought these results. With mathematical certainty, if economic policy does not change, to reduce taxes, to bring investment, to create growth in the country, in a year from now we will also seek new regulation, which will be a vicious circle, where we will be chasing our shadows in our country. We will vote on it. You, gentlemen of SYRIZA, did not vote to adjust the hundreds of doses of the Samara government. Another point of criticism for the past. But be careful, you did something worse. I hold this unacceptable, the undermining of the country itself. Do you remember in 2014 when to become a government you invited citizens, taxpayers, not to pay taxes and contributions? This poster will haunt you. It was filled with the Ministry of Finance - see it, Mr. Tsakaloto - and the Ministry of Labour and you said to the world of work, in the world of entrepreneurship, not to pay taxes and contributions. That's who you are! That's why you're being convicted of elections! That's why you're going to be debauched! Because you're hypocrites, you're liars, and the evil you're doing is huge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u66	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u67	Mr President, could I have the floor, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u68	Here, Minister, you have the floor. You normally want to talk? I ask you why we're interrupting the procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u69	No, no, that's not my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u70	You want to intervene, therefore. You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. I will only address one of the issues to which Mr Brutsi referred. For the rest, I will normally take my time tomorrow in my personal speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u72	All answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u73	Don't worry. I've already answered. Mr Brutsis chooses, when I speak, to be absent and then to say that there were no official answers to what he said. I will speak only on the issue of seven days' work. In my opinion, it is clear to anyone who listened to yesterday's press conference that the President of the Civilian Operations was referring to seven days' work. We could read and reread the relevant quote. In my view, that is clear. I will explain why, in my view, this is clear. The seven-day operation of businesses has been something that has existed for decades in our country. There are companies that are of the nature of seven days' operation, such as hotel enterprises, electricity, steel. It is seven days of operation by nature. From one point onwards, since 1990, there has been the possibility of having seven-day operations, even if they are not of their nature. So it is obvious that as long as these things have been in place for decades in the country, Mr. Mitsotakis would not speak of them as talking about something new. Once it is placed and spoken of a change, it is clear that it does not refer to the seven-day operation of a company, which, as I said, has been in place for decades, otherwise it would not talk about change. He wouldn't talk about anything new. He wouldn't talk about something that SYRIZA doesn't know how to adapt, like she said many times. This is the case for anyone who considers that it does not show up on the seven days of work alone. It is also well known that there has been labour legislation in our country, which for decades now provides for legal hours, which cannot be changed and the contractual hours in which the parties can agree can only improve and not worsen. Therefore, seven-day operations existed and will always exist. If I am not mistaken, PAPASTRATOS said that it intends to become seven days - I think it has not yet been done - by shifts and by keeping the legal working hours for its employees. So, not people work seven days a week. This is obviously forbidden and contrary to the law. But he also said something else, Mr Brutsis, which also shows an ignorance of what is happening with collective bargaining and collective agreements. Collective agreements of employment are not approved by any Minister. Alas, if they were approved by a minister! That would be unconstitutional. It would be interference in the trade union freedom of the parties. Collective labour contracts shall be deposited and posted to the electronic system. They are not approved by a Minister. It does not make a prudential control of the legality of a collective agreement by the Minister of Labour. I repeat that would be unconstitutional. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] So, let me conclude, I listened carefully to you - they are submitted to the relevant APRC office and then posted. What has happened - since we restored the basic principles of collective bargaining and the principle of expansion - is whether a sectoral collective agreement covers 51% of the workers in the sector, the companies signatories to it cover 51% of the workers in the industry, then the Minister can declare it compulsory in general. This condition is controlled and that consistency is, as I said, the principle of expansion, because, as you know, this principle has been suspended from 2012 until the summer of 2018, so we have restored them. So, in order to finish this new revelation, which she thinks she has today in relation to the fact that - and I too have approved - her employees working seven days a week in business, I, too, put forward in the Minutes for Mr Brutsis the Fine Act of the Labour Inspectorate and for a sectoral operation, which she wanted to do seven days' work for her employees. In fact, I have ten more of them to testify to, because this is the work that the Ministry can do, that is to check and impose fines, when the rules of labour law are violated.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u74	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u75	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u76	Mr. Brutsi, wait a minute to agree to the procedure. We're in the process of special speakers...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u77	It's not allowed to interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u78	Just give me a minute to finish. The Minister has no right to intervene and judge the speaker...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u79	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u80	That's the process. Of course you or any speaker doesn't come back later. However, since the first agreement has been reached, I will give you the floor, but there will be no interactive debate. We shall proceed to the next speaker and then the parliamentary representative will be placed and say what he wants to say. Here, then, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u81	Mr President, I will be very brief. Mrs Ahtsoglou tried a moment ago with her position to cover the great gave of SYRIZA and the Prime Minister himself. The big gave was that it invoked the expansion of the operation as the responsibility of Mr. Mitsotakis, who was self-evident and signed. Your gave is not covered today! Your gave's not covered! It's a gamble that's staying! I've tabled the minutes. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] As far as the issue I said just now, Mrs Ahtsioglu, I am sorry, but labour law - I do not want to go into it for many other reasons - has some unchanged fundamental principles. Among them it's grief. In the history of the country's labour law it is approved with FEK, which bears your signature, and I presented it just before a parliamentary step. We are talking about the first branch contract in Greece, which has a seven-day job signed by SYRIZA! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u82	Please! Mr. Koutsoukos, special speaker of the Democratic Association, has the floor. Here, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u83	Mr President, you saw that I did not complain about this seemingly confrontation of the New Democracy and SYRIZA that preceded it, as the SYRIZA's illusion was that Mr Mitsotakis pointed out their policy on industrial relations. And now they're fighting...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u84	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u85	"What do you say, "you said?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u86	What do you think, Yannis? I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u87	Oh, okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u88	I'm trying to figure out what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u89	Please, Mr. Mada. Mercy! Not you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u90	If you understood it well, Mr. Mitsotakis said "What nicely Mr. Tsipras said when he entered "PASTRATO"!". That's what he said. And now why is he malicious with you? You did it and you have to apologize. Mrs Ahtsioglu, it is not a shame when you refer to the five-day and the forty-hour, remember - and repeat it in this Chamber, once the ministers who went through PASOK are sitting next to you - who guaranteed this? They're ashamed to say it. At least you have no reason to be ashamed. He historicly did a government whose executives you are trying to buy, since after they destroyed the place they were good ministers and you need them. And because, every time, we have to show how false your confrontation with New Democracy is, I will raise a key issue to you. Neither you nor the New Democracy of Mitsotakis have been placed in our proposal that free collective bargaining be applied between the social partners to determine the minimum wage. Did you sign a ministerial decision setting out which should have a transitional nature and which should have legislated on the free collective bargaining procedure, as we have proposed? You don't do it, and Mr. Mitsotakis doesn't say it either. This is the challenge, since Greece has come out of the memoranda and acquired the degrees of economic freedom, as you say. So because this matter came up during the debate and I was provoked, I made this small introduction, so that I would now come to what I said in procedural terms, and Mr Tsakalots answered me about the political collapse of SYRIZA. Ladies and gentlemen, if there were no political collapse of the SYRIZA, i.e. if SYRIZA had not been lost - as it seems to have been in the public gallery and reflected in the polls in a few days - 50% of its election force would not have been able to do this special interview last week in Zappeion to present these measures, because this policy, that is to say, leaving from the budgetary constraints in which you put the country and go to another policy, wants another kind of management. And I'll explain immediately what I mean. It is clear that the government in the face of this political collapse has devised two arguments. One argument is that we did not govern with the far right-wing ones, that is, with the rest of us, we are the Progressive Alliance. And how do we build the Progressive Alliance? We build it with various willing periologists, who until a while ago were building up against SYRIZA, and now we offer them a ministerial chair and join the Progressive Alliance. To keep an eye on me, some of you have nothing but to see the ministerial seats. In fact, the ridiculousness of these people arrives at the time that Mr. Tsipras last Friday from this Step, denounced the Memorandum of 2010, the manslayer as he said, they applauded, as if they had not a single portal of honor for them to hide under the benches, come out, as they were ministers of PASOK at that time. This is the notorious Progressive Alliance with bridgers. Remember who they called "bridgers" after the junta after 1974? These bridgemakers, ladies and gentlemen, have failed with loose materials. They may have no gum, but they have Chipras. What's the second account? That I, the Prime Minister of Progressive Governance, am not cutting off, but sharing, I don't take, but I give. In other words, Mr Tsipras and Mr Tsakalotos are turning back what they have done so far. I am pleased that he is in and listening to me, because I had my honour and the day before, to report me during his speech on the motion of censure today.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u91	But in a good way.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u92	I didn't say anything, alas. In the context of political dialogue. I recognize that, Minister. The construction of Mr. Tsakalotou, in the medium term what was it? The construction of Mr Tsakalotou was therefore that these figures we are writing in the medium term for the primary surplus of ladies and gentlemen is not the figure we will achieve. These are: 4.13% in 2017, 3.98% in 2018, 3.6% in 2019, 4.15% in 2020, 4.53% in 2021, 5.19% in 2022. We will not achieve this, we put it on paper, to facilitate the debate, because we will implement the prelegated policies of the countermeasures. Yes, that's what we were told. Mr Venizelos reminded him the other day, reading the Minutes of the relevant debate. And what is it now? Based on the interview - he did not tell us in his position that Mr Tsakalotos today - is shown to be simply from these privileged surpluses, which by 2022 is EUR 56 billion against expected GDP of only EUR 37 billion - so they will be bleeding out of the Greek economy - he has put into his pocket 31 billion as stock. In other words, he 'dreated' them, as the people would say, and now he's sharing them. Hey, you guys are hot, Mr. Chaakalot. And it is not enough that you have propelled them and now you are making them 'insecure', that you also put a piece of them, EUR 5.5 billion pledged - you admitted it in your position that it is a pledge - to save a financial space, so that you implement a policy of 2.5%. In other words, you are actually implicating the possibility of the next government, which we hope will be the government of a wide-ranging national understanding, to negotiate the ties of the country. That's what you're actually doing. You say, we, gentlemen, here we have the pledge, and from there we don't care what the next ones do. Again, Mr Chakalotos referred to me the other day, when he spoke of the middle class and the redistribution, with the example of Peter Sanchez in Spain. He saw me make my cross. In our villages, when ordinary people hear anything strange, they are crucified. He tells you, "Where did he come here?" So he said to me, "Yes, Mr. Koutsuko, as Sanchez did. Not like you who sent DMAR and the River away to co-operate with Mitsotakis." Is that right? Is that right, Mr. Chakaloto?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u93	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u94	We kicked DMAR out? We didn't give Mr. Theocharopoulos the place he was asking for and you took it from him and you gave it to him. And Mr Theodorakis left and decided to cooperate with New Democracy, that is the truth. Well, you who are supposed to have denounced the toxic speech and the make news, can't you have a dialogue on a serious basis and use these falsehoods of Maximos' basements? Well, we have not kicked anyone out, we have a fixed line, and we are the allies of Peter Sanchez in the European Union and in the European elections, and you are Pablo Iglesias. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] Unless Mr. Iglesias, with whom you embraced him, accidentally went through the Constitution, he had come for tourism in Athens and passed through SYRIZA's gathering and took pictures. These, to have the fronts clearly, who's with whom. Mr Tsakalotos, because I am actually following you, you have referred to the example of the IRS. You said that the IRS, the audit mechanism in the United States of America - to consult ordinary citizens - when it reduced its costs, did not carry out checks on the beneficiaries, it did to the large companies. Yes, sir. Well done, congratulations! You, Mr. Chakaloto, do you know what you're doing here in Greece? Have you read the ADA report, which increased the market on-the-spot checks to increase the collection of VAT and left five thousand large tax evasion cases to be deleted from the famous Lagard, Borgians, the transfers outside the fifty-five thousand outlets and offshores? He has established only 1 million euros and has received about 100,000 euros against him. And suspend each time the application of the system to control the smuggling of fuels, as you say you can't find how to implement it. So you do the opposite of what you tell us every time. So be careful, Mr. Chakaloto. If you've seen the movie "The Indignant" with Kevin Costner - which I imagine you'll have seen, because you're the stream of the 7th art - you can't look like him. I don't know if you'll succeed in meeting Scarlett Johansson, but Kevin Costner in the movie "The Diarror" you're not gonna look like. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this account, built by the government, has been suppressed on the grounds of the electoral situation. And not only has it suppressed to the theoretical level, but practically the government to defend it is treated with a thousand million lies. The most characteristic example is what has happened with pensions. The government says it gives the thirteenth pension. Read the explanatory statement to the amendment. It's not even half the pension it gives. What matters is that he removed the twelfth and that, if the tax is due, he will remove the twelfth as well. Because with the information I have submitted to the committee - and I would like to present it today, since Mr Tsakalotos makes me the honour of being here and he is also a political leader of the ADA - on the basis of the treatment of pensioners' declarations, the average income in 2014 was EUR 13,231 and in 2017 he became EUR 11,175, that is, less EUR 2,056 or less EUR 15,5%. This is one of the declarations on income taxation, where both the principals and the subsidiary and the aid are declared. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Giannis Koutsoukos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And he comes here lying and tells us that the average pension has increased and Mr. Brutsis revealed that they have changed the time series. In other words, to calculate the average pension, it puts in and reservations for health and for the benefit of the CIS. The health reservations are EUR 800 million per year, EUR 4 billion per year, and the contribution to pensioners' medicines - because you increased the pharmaceutical cost - is EUR 266 million per year, i.e. EUR 1.33 billion per year in five years and you also cut the CSCE further. That's why pensions are reduced, and this is reflected in the pensioners' tax statements, which is an undisputed witness, whatever fairy tales Mr. Petropoulos tells us, which we have caused him ten times here to testify to the recalculation of the Katrugalos law and hides it! And if you have a credit card, send him now that you give the election allowance to the pensioners. So that is the policy of lies. As the policy of lies is reflected in the amendment on VAT. You say, "We're reducing the VAT that went up to 24%." How did he get up, his only one? What is, naturally, a phenomenon of VAT, that is to say, rising in proportion to the weather? You took him to 24 percent with the laws you passed. In any case, this reduction in VAT is not enough. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the bill from which we started in the hundred and twenty instalments. A hundred and twenty doses of you were asked in '17 when we saw that those who had joined the regulation of the hundreds of doses and ours, who you undermined and talked about "sleepiness", and yours. You didn't. We told you after a hundred and twenty doses of the extrajudicial that no one would enter. You didn't. So we tabled a proposal for a law that says 'you get in the hundred and twenty instalments, you pay an advance, while you pay, you are fine, if you can't, go out and re-pay the deposit', i.e. a fixed arrangement. You are now going to have a late arrangement, which you are provoking, but I said that it is falsifying, because, firstly, it is not a hundred twenty instalments for social security bodies, as the minimum dose plaque leads to only a hundred twenty people who owe up to 3,600 euros. As far as tax administration is concerned, this is a little better than the current 12 instalments. It's far behind both our own and your older arrangements. We said, then, to Mrs Papanatsiou during the debate in the Commission, 'Why, brother, do you not take speculation and entities out of legal persons, the same companies, which are individual companies, to go to the hundred and twenty instalments, which is simple? It has no problem of practical application. Small and medium-sized enterprises are a very clear proposal.' Another very clear proposal: putting a cap on legal persons, the cigarette. We put it in 2014 -- I remind you - and you abolished it in March 2015. And then, in the legislative act, you brought us the regulation that you have exonerated some grand, two hundred and fifty, has said Mrs Valvain, in her statement, of the fines for smuggling, you and Mr Tsakalots, the Deputy Minister, were then not disproportionately responsible. So we have made proposals to improve these things, so that they can work. We also told the committee that we voted 'yes' in principle, because we want a euro to benefit a man or a small piece of hope not to disappoint him. But the arrangements you bring are far below the circumstances. So we will wait until the end of the debate not to say anything, as Mrs Papanatziou told us, and because Tsakalotos listens to me, he has the political power over lenders and the ADD to argue, because for small businesses, the peer-to-peer companies, and also the anonymous capital companies up to a level of turnover we believe can go to a hundred and twenty. And we'll wait to do it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. To conclude, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, one could say a lot about two points: the amendment. One is the amendment. So, Mrs Gennamata said, "Leave these and come here to vote five proposals which are part of the motions of law we have tabled in Parliament and which Mr Voutsis, in cooperation with the Government, in breach of the Rules of Procedure, does not bring us to discuss." I remember also at the government of New Democracy and at the government of our own, in this House, suggestions of opposition, proposals of law. Well, the government did not bring them to discuss them and Mrs Gennamas repeated five of our forty proposals: First, the discount, not to reduce duty. It's a law proposal - Mr. Brutsi, we've submitted it since November 2018, with a report from the General Accounting Office, so that you don't get confused to write it -. To rid young professionals of taxes and contributions. It is the proposal to motivate recruitment. It's the three-year housing subscription to the new couples. It is the minimum pension of 500 and 700 euros in pairs. It is to reduce the tax rate for agricultural incomes and motivate cooperatives and producer groups. You have it in your hands. If you look at the archives of the Parliament, there are also reports from the General Accounting Office of the State. And I'm done with this. I was surprised that the ministers who intervened before the rapporteurs did not refer to the amendment of the Ministry of Culture and Sport for cultural monuments. I imagine SYRIZA's colleagues have it in your hands. I hope the Minister will have to come and present her, Mrs Zorba Myrsini, who did not understand which government she entered into. When we denounced, ladies and gentlemen, that Mr Tsakalotos, with his signature, transferred the tens of thousands of nineteen properties of the Greek State to the superstition, Mrs Zorba said that the properties belonging to the Ministry of Culture and the archaeological sites are reserved, and after an investigation she said she took about two thousand six hundred. And he comes here with the amendment now to tell us that these are not negotiable. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So when we denounced the government, we were absolutely right. And it is now to be confirmed by Mrs Myrsini Zorba, who - I repeat - did not understand which government she entered into. In any case, since you're supposed to have an elementary democratic sensitivity, I'm telling you the following simple thing: We are asking, Minister, since you have been here for eight months now, for the list of ten thousand and nineteen real estates through parliamentary control. I have tabled questions, I and our parliamentary group, as well as timely questions. Why are you hiding it? Do you have any reason to hide it, to know what the Greek people are the tens of thousands of nineteen properties you promised in the superstition? I think you have no reason - and you will be labelled, if you do not, because, you know, the governments are leaving, but love remains. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So I, ladies and gentlemen, say that this policy does not lead anywhere. There will be no new deception of the Greek people. The price will be collected on May 26th, where we expect the Change Movement to be the decisive factor in developments and to mark the first step in the overthrow of the political scene. Thank you, Mr President, and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u95	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u96	Minister, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u97	Mr President, how can this be done?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u98	He needs an answer. Mr. Koutsoukos mentioned my name in a quarter more than my forgived mother did it in two weeks, so I think I'm entitled to answer. Look, in the Orthodox economics, not our aristotle and these, you are trying to meet needs with a financial budget. Obviously I could bring the VAT to everything, go back there. Obviously, I could vote for your amendment. Evidently Mrs Ahtsoglu could bring the full, even more to everyone. But we have a budget limitation. At the same time as we did these, we did things for Special Education, we reduced social contributions to the self-employed, and we have done more and more. So, we say, this is the financial space, that's what we can do for the focus now. We'll see what we can do next. That is what we can do for pensions this year. We'll see what we do next. But there's a calculation, an income restriction. Only Aga Han - and I will tell you this story - when Samuelson, perhaps the greatest economist in the Orthodox school, had a student in Aga Han, who had some billions - for whoever doesn't know who Aga Han is - asks him and explains that the economic theory is how to meet the needs with financial limitation, says to him, "How can we do it with the finances, when there is no financial limitation?" Well, unfortunately for us, there is a financial restriction. Can you answer us how much do you think the space is in 2019? Can you answer us, Mr. Treasury and Mr. Brutsi, how much is the space for you in 2019? Because what Mr Mitsotakis announced, we, Mr. Juliarakis, cost it, and you haven't answered us for five billion. Tell us, how much space 2019 is for you, with your financial data, and then we will see if we have done good redistribution or if you have something better, but not so, to make such amendments and say that "we will do VAT or all things". Isn't that right? That's the first. Secondly, you do not understand the 2020 plan after that. One question and then we'll talk about it again when your Members come back to talk about it again. Does it reduce austerity or doesn't it reduce it? That's the question. With this guaranteed account, with this plan we are discussing here and putting it in the debate, why are you negative? Does it reduce or not reduce austerity for 2020, 2021 and 2022? That's the question. There's no further question. This is of interest to the citizens who are listening to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u99	Minister, please complete. I'm sorry to interrupt you, but the next speakers are complaining that we're not applying the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u100	But is this a procedure, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u101	Thirty more seconds, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u102	Complete and then reposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u103	Is it possible to speak to each speaker?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u104	I'm not talking to every speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u105	I'll give you a minute, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u106	You didn't say everything I said about Pedro Sanchez. I said Pedro Sancheth came down to the election with two pre-elections. One against the extreme right and the other in favour of equality and obviously against inequality. He didn't come down with the Podemos defeat strategy. Isn't that right? It did not come down with the defeat strategy and that is why it wants to make an alliance with the Podemos now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u107	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u108	What are you talking about, Mr. Kegeroglu? Can you answer anything seriously?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u109	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u110	Do you do the same? You did as a right-wing strategic defeat, so the far right won't come back? Is that what you're doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, because there are protests and they are fair and they are invoking the Rules of Procedure, I will repeat that the Rules of Procedure say that speakers are not interrupted by anyone. If the Minister wants to fix something, for half a minute he can intervene, but not speak. The Minister is then placed and responds to everyone as a whole. That's what the Rules of Procedure say. Then the Parliamentary Representatives judge the Minister or are appointed. That's what the Rules of Procedure say. If we start and the speakers are interrupted, the speakers are second-guessing, and so on, we will not proceed. Warm request: Follow the Rules of Procedure. But because, Mr Kutsukouko, we did the first thing, I will give you a minute, not more, to get in the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, we are all outside Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u112	You are absolutely right about the procedure, Mr President, and I apologise to my colleagues. However, since this controversy, this dialogue with Mr Brutsi, I too have the right to speak. Minister, it is your parliamentary and political duty to study the proposal for a law that we have tabled and the report by the General Accounting Office of the State, which accompanies it, rather than ask me about the cost. You must come here, bring it as an obligation from the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and discuss it on the basis of the report from the General Accounting Office of the State. I say, therefore, that the cost of our proposal is within the limits of the budgetary margin and that it touches the renegotiation of 3.5%. A serious debate must be held here in the House and not hide. Second point. The 5.5 billion pledged, Minister, you have gone ahead with it. So it's austerity people paid for. That's why I'm telling you that you're making the free guys, making taxes and contributions. Third point. We went to Madrid, signed the Madrid Declaration on the end of austerity with Pedro Sanchez and Franz Timmermanns, and we have a clear political proposal. Can you tell us who you are in Europe, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u113	No, don't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u114	You can't tell us. In blurred waters you are fishing and Mr Sanchez has denounced you for your populism. As a response, therefore, to what is happening in Spain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u115	Thank you. Mr. Ioannis Shahinides, special speaker of the Golden Dawn, has the floor for 15 minutes and I would ask that we stay in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. Before the Minister of Finance, Mr. Chakalotos, leaves, a clarification, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u117	No, Mr. Shahinides, dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u118	It's a basic question, it's nothing else, I don't insult anything else. Minister, you said earlier that you have achieved a reduction in self-employed people. If it was a wrong expression, I would like to make it clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u119	No, social contributions for the employees. It was a bill that passed February.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u120	I wanted clarification because if you are proud of the reduction of self-employed, we are burned!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u121	No, for social contributions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u122	You referred to your prototype and told us that you have made all roses. Really, do you live in another country? You also said that you were open to all kinds of dialogue. I wanted to see how far your democratic sensitivities are. Could you sit on a table and have your face on Golden Dawn, so we can discuss unemployment and all of this? Of course not. Also, in the hearing of bodies, the Deputy Minister for Labour, Mr Petropoulos, referred to the good course of the economy. The good course, I imagine, Minister, is linked to investments and growth. Where exactly have these happened and we don't understand them? In full, therefore, your election period and government are in a process of managing the electorate, given the undeniable reduction in your election rate. The only way you can survive politically is by voting for bills like today. The economic problems faced by our people are data. They are demonstrated by a number of statistical studies, by the deterioration of the standard of living of Greece, pension insecurity, but above all by the inability of Greek taxpayers to be consistent with their financial obligations in the Memorandum of State which has formed the political wings of the so-called constitutional arch. This has led to the increase of the debt of natural and legal persons to the state funds, and we particularly mean the debts of insurance funds and tax administration, taxes, customs, etc. Therefore, with the data we have, these debts as a whole amount to EUR 130 billion. This is, of course, a great amount, which has grown mainly over the last ten years, during which various anti-social and anti-national economic austerity policies have been implemented, imposed by the European Union. So, what is the SYRIZA Government doing today under this legislation? The answer is perfectly understandable. It seeks to obtain as much money as possible by proposing certain, allegedly, favourable provisions for the settlement of debts. The above finding is based on the entire draft, which is divided into three parts and consists of 118 articles. The first includes provisions relating to debt arrangements against the insurance funds. The second part consists of provisions relating to fine-tuning proceedings against the tax administration and the third part contains provisions on the settlement of debts for TAs. We must denounce the procedure which took place at the meetings of the committees which I mentioned at the outset. Of the more than thirty institutions, which were called, eventually, there were twenty-three. And that is for the so-called reason of the urgency procedure under which the draft law was drawn up. In this respect, however, the representative of the Independent Public Revenue Authority did not attend, and I said so at the last meeting of the committees, which is responsible for submitting the precise financial information on their debts and repayment rates. Indeed, the SYRIZA rapporteur said that SYRIZA - I imagine the rest of the constitutional arc - is with the many and not the few. We are certainly with the many and the ordinary Greek citizens. If you are not with the few, together with the constitutional arch, I challenge both the SYRIZA rapporteur and the New Democracy rapporteur to tell us why no one mentioned the updated lists of the Independent Public Revenue Authority, which were updated on October 3, 2018. I'll tell you in detail. A representative was not present at the hearing of the bodies. Obviously the reason why there was no representative of the Independent Public Income Authority was that he knew the questions we were going to ask him. With statistical data, therefore, provided by the Independent Authority of Public Revenue, which, as I said before, had been updated last time on 3-10, it appears that 87.5% of the debtors, about three and a half million debtors, owed only 2.3% of the debt, i.e. only EUR 2.4 billion. On the other hand, seventy-nine debt-supplyers with more than 100 million owes a total of 32.7%, i.e. 34 billion euros. However, one thousand and fifty-four debtors, who have debts of up to EUR 10 to 100 million, owes EUR 28.3% of the debts, i.e. EUR 29 billion. The question that remains unanswered is: Who are all these? Who are these thousand two hundred and thirty-three debtors, who owe 63 billion euros? What measures does the independent authority and the government intend to take? The government didn't even answer us. You have no measure at all. You don't want to take. What I have, ladies and gentlemen, have is a telephone list. It's at anyone's disposal. It's posted online. It is the list of debtors. It is the list of natural persons debtors. It starts with those who owe 150,000 euros and reaches the first who owes 472 million euros. If you too want as SYRIZA and the previous governments, with the first 12 of them, if you collect the money, you can give the money for the remaining three and a half million debtors. Look at him. Here's the list. It's at anyone's disposal. And to imagine that the list of legal persons under private law is twice as high as it is. Here are only the debtors with their VAT, their companies, the addresses, how much they owe the FBI, how much they owe customs, and how much they owe the DUIs. It's not personal. By law, they can be posted to the Independent Public Revenue Authority. Prove to us that you want to be with the many. The ones I hold in my hands are the few, gentlemen. They're the ones who protect the whole constitutional bow. It cannot be that twelve people owe what the rest of the Greek people owes and no government until now has done nothing. This is another indication of the government's intention to speed up procedures, but of course at the wrong time. And we say in the wrong time, because these arrangements you make today could as SYRIZA have brought them many weeks ago. The reason why you did not do this is purely political, which clearly concerns the political exploitation and the possible gain that you will gain in a well-established schizophrenic counterto New Democracy. On the substance, now, of the bill, as Golden Dawn, we positively assess any provisions that ensure financial facilitation to the Greek people, but we repeat that under no circumstances should our people fall into the trap set by SYRIZA, SYRIZA of allowances, national reductions and social unrest. We do not forget that this government has sold Macedonia out and continues its anti-national policy on Greek-Turkish issues. I would also like to refer to Rule 30, which we will not vote for and the reasons are very simple. It refers to funeral and cremation expenses. While it is positive as regards the problems that are being regulated regarding funeral expenses and their performance to the relatives of the deceased, there are three issues that force us to say'residents' in this article. Firstly, we have said this on several occasions, for reasons of principle we are opposed to covering the costs of incineration, a process which is completely foreign to our morals and Orthodox faith. Secondly, in communication with this professional sector, we were told that it does not have retroactive effect. As a result, people with ceremonies, which have up to a protocol number, cannot collect unpaid invoices. The non-payment of these invoices relates exclusively to cases of the former OGA and the phenomenon is more acute in regions of Western Central Greece. And thirdly, there was a gradual increase from 9%, 13% and 24% in VAT on the service invoices of the ceremonies offices. The VAT on the offices of ceremonies shall not be reduced by any regulation in this draft law. So they could not be missing from the bill and the provisions affecting multiple families with the demographic problem, which, unfortunately, is currently on the table. The otherwise social profile you want to present as SYRIZA swallows daily in the eyes of the luxurious ones. The ASEAN spokesman was clear and burned down the provisions of Articles 76 and 98. With regard to Rule 76, in the way in which it proves the polytechnic status of special categories, it said that this does not make any sense. The only thing that is achieved is that it will be exploited by some who do not have the luxury status to be placed in a laundry, so that they have recourse to the administrative court, that the agency is also entitled to take two people, instead of one. Here, in fact, I have a letter from the Hellenic Supreme Confederation, the President of which was Mr Theotokatokas, who had come to the bodies as well. The letter has a protocol number 312, and even the multitude call for the withdrawal of Article 76. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Sahinides, presents for the minutes the abovementioned list, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Article 98 for the purpose of regulating liability to tax shall set out the criteria for placing and calculating the instalments and amounts thereof. This is where the polytexts are affected. Among other things, the bill gives a reduced rate to those who have a child with one unit, to those who have two dependent children and those who have three or more units. That is, it puts us in the same position of those who have four, fourteen or twenty-four children. That's who you are, gentlemen of SYRIZA. No care for the many Greeks and dozens of arrangements in favour of those who have illegally entered our country. Hundreds of millions of benefits to illegal foreigners, while the Greek family is struggling in every way to stay alive. And you have the courage to organise party meetings, celebrity-type events, to advertise your nonexistent social work of corruption and government-oriented, democracy of poverty and benefits, and to form public opinion at the will of your mandates. They then reap the fruits of the mutated policy that all of you of the democratic arch exercise. As much as the pensions and the account of the thirteenth pension, what exactly did you achieve? We'll tell you what you've done. To create an illusion to the citizens that the economy is going well, so that you can hoard one more vote. But you don't tell them that there are increases in first-demand goods. This is what you leave for later or rather you want the next government to take on the political cost. In addition to this undeniable political interpretation, what do you have to tell us about an inappropriate number of pensioners who, because of their debts to the insurance funds and the Memorandum Laws, receive pitiful pensions and grow? We are talking about our fellow citizens receiving a pension of EUR 100 over the last four years. Another example of poor pensions is the question of death-related pensions. The truth is that recalculating, reducing percentage and reducing personal differences led funds such as IKA, TEBE and others to give death pensions even under 150 euros. So this made the government fix the minimum pension at EUR 360 and EUR 384. So it created a new injustice, and that is what we are pointing out, especially for the pensioners of the former OGA before and after the Law 4387. This is the social state of SYRIZA and other memorandum parties. In conclusion, the People's Association - Golden Dawn is here to claim in the name of the Greek citizens the self-evidence, support for the family and defend the interests of Greek workers, who, on the one hand, face the nightmare of unemployment, because of mass immigration, illegal in overwhelming proportions, and on the other, are called upon to pay a great deal of money compared to their potential, so that they can meet the irrational state requirements. We will vote for the provisions that give a breath to Greek taxpayers, but without that meaning that we agree with the hypocritical policy of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u123	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-one students and students and two educational attendants from the 17th Sereos Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Do not worry, gentlemen, of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, SYRIZA applies all the commitments to capital and indeed the above. He took your job, you see. That is why they applaud him, because it proved to be more effective than you to satisfy their demands. Now, in the face of the elections, the government has entered into an attempt to cultivate the known fraud of the smallest evil. While continuing to load the working class, the self-employed and their children the crisis and the debt, which are not theirs, with the third memorandum, incorporating the two previous PASOK and the New Democracy with the over a thousand pharmacists who broke their lives, now announces the so-called 'positive measures'. You're trying to get through, gentlemen, a climate of tolerance, endurance to the people. You deceive him with the so-called option of gradually reintroducing rights, while, on the other hand, you reassure the monopolistic and business groups that you will not escape a single euro from what you have agreed and committed to them, that you will not overthrow the reforms. You are trying to create that climate, so that you can be forgiven for the great fraud, for the great amount of revenue and life of the people, so that you can continue the reforms, that is, the overthrows that are indicated by the representatives of business groups and, of course, the European Union's directives. The workers, the self-employed, their children will not be deceived. They now have experience of managing the needs of capital, which it has, liberal, social-democratic, left-wing, green, whatever it is called. Everyone serves his capital and needs, scanning every right, raging the lives of every worker and people's family. Gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you were talking about the generation of 700 euros and now we are in the generation of 300 euros. You got a hundred and give one. And you want to be told and thank you for your works and your days. Of course, the new Republic and PASOK or KINAL are also seeking to forget their victims of the war that they accepted while they were in the government, but also full support in the third memorandum and in every measure that supports business groups. In order to support business groups, the New Democracy does not cease to show its intention to move forward in fulfilling their claims, proving that it is their genuine representative. Mr. Mitsotakis understanding that SYRIZA has taken, as we said, the mouth bite, swells into anti-grass measures in order to become the chosen man of capital. Only in this way can his proposal for a seven-day work be explained, he was supposed to be willing to do so, when everyone knows that authoritarianism, terrorism in the workplace is blackmailing the will of the workers. Of course, SYRIZA cannot be surprised and cannot be hypocrised by this position of the New Democracy, because he abolished Sunday's holiday in a series of branches, which means seven days' work and has his own decisive seal. All of you satisfy the claims of capital. The Labour Law which has been mentioned, created by tough struggles, has overthrown it and you are committed to codification, making it easier for employers to implement all the overthrows. Of course, who are these? It's work in line with the needs of production and the take-off of the management right. The regulation of the bill, not only does not constitute any real and substantial relief to the people and especially to the people involved, but it is also the other side of the escalation of the anti-population attack against them. The bill aims to make arrangements to legitimise the continuation of this policy in the consciousness of the people. Today’s impoverishment does not change with some relief crumbs. Depression cannot change as long as the cause of it remains. And the reason why births are the need for large companies to ensure and multiply their profits. The government is trying to cover up the fact that from EUR 55,000,000 in the state budget, large businesses pay less than EUR 3,000,000. All the rest, including the 1,000,000 euros of measures announced for 2019, will come out of the pockets of employees, self-employed, pensioners, farmers. Relief measures are a very small part of the huge theft of all governments, before the New Democracy and PASOK, today of SYRIZA. As far as you get from the people, you give them to the big business groups, to the repayment of the debt that isn't his. The government is trying to show workers as winners. The capital will gain, not only indirectly, as the measures are an alibi to the policy promoted by the government in favour of it, but also directly, since a large share of funding goes directly to the groups' pockets. Should we talk about subsidising employers' insurance contributions? What does she recommend? It recommends a direct grant to large groups that will find cheaper labour force and at the same time an additional incentive to replace older workers with rights with young people without rights. A large part of the reduction in VAT on energy, on the basis of the amendment, is aimed at increasing the profitability of large energy-intensive enterprises, both in industry and in tourism. People's consumers will benefit little. Of course, not to talk about the provocative provocation of overdepreciation - you will also bring it - which you have announced about the large groups, which is essentially a new transfer of huge legal tax exemptions. At the same time, the government is taxing the people with imputable income and taxing the capital with allegedly nonexistent costs. The government brings an allowance of EUR 300 and for those who have drawn up up up up up to EUR 500 the allowance of EUR 500. This is based on "13th pension". That can't acquittal the law - the looting of Katrugalos. It can't be forgotten that you're abolishing the NSA that the low pensioners received at the rate of 2.4 billion. It cannot be forgotten that pensioners lost more than 13th and 14th pensions, over three pensions from the main and subsidiary from the reductions of up to 30% and 35% of the Katrugalo Law. You're returning them a sum from the code, Minister, which is for the holiday aid. That's the suggestion to the FBI. This is the code to be paid for by the so-called ‘13th pension’. It'll be given by the holiday aid. And here, it turns out, your hypocrisy is revealed for what you're saying. The pensioners, the workers and all the victims of your policy know that you are returning crumbs that you call them benefits. The same is true with the regulation of debts for the hundred and twenty instalments, as it has prevailed. This does not offer a real solution to today's deadlocks. On the contrary, all the causes that give birth to them remain in full. These arrangements do not cut off any debts. The extortion of the recalculation of insurance contributions has an expensive price, hunger pensions. It reduces the amount of debt, but gives pensions less than 41% to 65%. The so-called ‘cut’ of the surcharges is actually cancelled, as the arrangements are made in terms of bank lending. The anti-grassrooted policies are living and reigning. The legislative framework which the SYRIZA Government kept intact supplemented and promoted reinsurance for decades. This has led to a further build-up of debts. Your own laws tightened the forced receipts, seizures, which are currently starting at EUR 500. Most of the 80,000 self-employed people with debts of over 20,000 euros, while they have paid decades of insurance contributions, are at risk of losing all insurance rights even at home. The regulation proposed by the government is temporary and presupposes the drastic restriction of even this lame drafting of the Katrugalo Law for a decade. All the conditions, the provisions that have created the problem continue to apply. Their temporary suspension to fill the funds at the expense of the survival of pensioners does not solve any problem. The claims made by the self-employed are satisfied with the amendment tabled by the JRC and we ask that you accept it. The total abolition of the Katrugalos Act and therefore of Article 12 on widow's pensions is still the requirement for insured, retired people in and from the hard struggles they have had over the past period. The Government, by regulating the 'founded reason' for dismissal, seeks to develop a charitable profile, at the same time as the working jungle, which incorporated all the anti-governmental institutional framework of the European Union for the liberation of collective redundancies, which has fully maintained the anti-government laws on the adjustment of working time and has further strengthened the framework for the mobilisation of working time. The SYRIZA government enforced the 12-hour work of hospital doctors by its own law, maintained the reduction of overtime pay, imposed a 30-day job per year, resulting in seven-day work, as we said. It maintains the one-year trial period, during which dismissal does not require justification when it takes place during that period and, of course, no compensation is due. The official figures show that job losses, i.e. redundancies in any form, each year exceed two million and reach the absolute number of employees. The forecasts contained in Article 56 for distributors with dicyclopedia do not satisfy the request so that equipment, machines, maintenance, travel costs are the sole responsibility of the undertaking. A number of requests, such as the ban on dicyclopedic distribution in dangerous weather, the delimitation of kilometre distances, the ban on time with heavy penalties - because it is the cause of many accidents and many times fatal - and the integration of specialisation into heavy and unhealthy professions you do not accept. Over the last four years, the JRC submitted dozens of legal proposals and amendments to increase wages, restore collective agreements, the proposal for a law of five hundred working organisations for the protection of the unemployed, protect the first residence from auctioning, the debts of the people's units, the maintenance of reduced VAT on the islands and much more. SYRIZA rejected one by one of these initiatives, which responded to the needs of the people. And now, in this bill, we have tabled four amendments, which respond to the concerns of the debtors in taxi, municipalities and funds, on taxation, which eliminates the additional obstacles to the strike decision. Our amendments are well known, you have them. I would like to say, however, about the world that listens to us that one is the deletion of interest, surcharges and debt cuts of the people's families from public debts and arrangements for the insurance funds of the non-wages and those insured in the OGA. With this amendment, interest and surcharges on public debts of up to EUR 20,000 are being written down, a 30% reduction in the debt for income of up to EUR 20,000 and a 50% reduction for the unemployed. The solidarity levy and the trade fee for income of up to EUR 20,000 are abolished, interest and increases for debts of up to EUR 50,000 to non-wage insurance funds and up to EUR 20,000 to OGA. Removal of the health sector's contribution is granted to those entitled to a debt of less than EUR 50 000. The remaining debt is regulated in interest-free instalments which do not exceed a year's income of up to EUR 20,000. The other amendment concerns the abolition of a regulation which provides for a reduction in duty from EUR 9,500 to less than EUR 6,000 from EUR 1-12020 for employees and pensioners. The third amendment also concerns the implementation of direct measures to remove debts to municipalities on income criteria such as protecting the people's interests. The fourth amendment also concerns the abolition of the anti-Fraud provision, which prevents a decision on strike. We are also putting forward proposals. We have also been told in committee. But of course, they have not been taken into consideration because - I see - Mr. Petersburg has said nothing about them. It is the proposal of the OAU's Pensioners' Federation to retire the debtors, the proposal of the Newspaper Association to extend the method of calculation to 31-12-2016, the proposal of the workers who are currently at the moment, both to the EPAC and to the EIF in Article 43, which solves a serious problem for workers - which are not in organic positions, to be placed in existing organic positions or recommended undetermined personal positions by decision of the governors, at the time when there is no cost for them. Even a euro will provide for regulation - we have said so many times - for the worker to take, we will not say no to take it, we will not get in the way. None of them even would have been given without workers' struggles all the time. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Real relief for workers and the people can only be achieved through the struggle to recover the losses and satisfy the current needs towards the real opponent, against the capital and policy of those who serve it, at the same time as they do everything they do to forget the rights of the people, to put down the cave of their demands, to forget what they lost and to compromise with the crusts, the instalments, the allowances and the social dividends. In this fight of solidarity, the JRC can be much stronger in the elections and everywhere. Because that will be his fight power to recover all this. We are tabling the proposals that I have read earlier, by the OAU, by the newspapers, the proposal by the workers in the Occupied Territories. Of course, we are also tabling the proposals that we have made in the committees. They still haven't answered and we'll wait until the Minister tell us about them at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u125	And we're moving on with the Special Rapporteur of the River Mrs. Liberaki. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, after nine years of crisis, what Greek citizens, men and women expect, is breath and development. They don't expect any client arrangements or small meditations. In the bill we are discussing today, there are many articles. There are positive, there are indifferent, there are customers and there are unfortunately many cases. The tone, however, if there is a red thread that unites the different articles, is a spirit of amnesty, something like "business as usual" on the client's surface, as if our country did not go bankrupt, as if nothing of the many and repeated mistakes made by many at different times were learned. First I want to talk about doses and debt reliefs. There is no doubt that it is necessary not so much to meet requests - very important when there is a possibility - not to reward voters - that does not seem to me to be helping in general - nor to create a social profile that was actually missing and shine through the absence of this time. The reason why they need alleviations and multiple doses is to give the economy a breath and perspective to young people. Unfortunately, he does not do that as much as he should have done this bill, while I think he could. As far as insurance is concerned, unfortunately, there is no proportionate approach. The insurance system, according to the known system, is blurred blindly. There was a proportionate view for 2018-2060. This was made public in Brussels, with 2016 data and with 2017 legislation. Even she was unexplainedly optimistic. It took it as a pretext that by 2030 Greece's women will work as much or as often as the men in Greece, which is not accompanied by any activism on the part of supply and, above all, demand-side measures. But even this very optimistic proportional reading has been overturned, because some of the data on which it was based, for example, the personal difference. So the view today is about like the definition of green statistics. It's because that's how Mr. Katrugalo was at work, and now she's at the service of Mrs. Ahtsoglou. Now this law comes and brings more burdens for the future, without even counting them. The General Accounting Office of the State shall calculate the weight of the proposed measures by 2022. The insurance arrangements, even the smaller ones, have a particular feature, are extended over time. To happen something and to be managed for the next two, three, four years is inadequate in order to make a decision. This makes me think - and Potami makes me think - that the sustainability guaranteed by these insurance interventions is a sustainability in introductorys, a sustainability as before, namely a sustainability with high-speaking assurances that the system is armoured, that it can withstand, there is room, etc., and after each election there are barbaric insurance arrangements. And I'm afraid the bill will be sent back to the new generation. I would like to say something about the work, which is based on a great misunderstanding. The bill baptizes protection of the creation of impurities in redundancies. This is the one side of the labour market image. The essential and important aspect of the labour market that we should be interested in - because it eventually turns into jobs, self-reliance, economic independence - is whether the measures for workers facilitate or prevent the creation of new jobs and recruitment. I am afraid that where measures of this type have been measured in redundancies, they are ultimately acting as labour regulations for young people, not only for young people at age, but for young people in the labour market, and that from the point of view of women is of great importance because during the crisis many middle-aged women or relatively mature women are looking for work for the first time and only some of them find them. So he's philosophical in words and a worker in practice. Finally, for widow’s pensions, the Katorugalou Insurance Act really depleted its rigour to the widows, who, as you know, also have the characteristic not to complain at the highest level. When the extent of the problem has come to be seen by the naked eye and given that the troika has left fortunately, some patches are carried out, without a programme, without calculation, but the worst of all, with a vision of Greece as if we were back in 1950 with a very traditional treatment of women. I will return to this on the way. I would like to focus on debt arrangements, widow's pensions and employment a little more and I will not exceed my time at all. I would like to say that there is no general rule and one single logic in debt arrangements. Others apply to the State, to the municipalities, to the funds, to the funds, to the number of instalments, to the other rate of increase, to the other rate, to the other maximum of instalments. It is a hundred and twenty for tax and social security bodies and a hundred for municipalities, eighteen for businesses. The delayed tax return interpretation is 2%, 5%, in the municipalities, i.e. 24% and 60% a year, cumulatively. I would like to highlight the punitive attitude towards business. This is not only about those who are friends and business friends. Above all, we are concerned that if business does not work, there will be no jobs for people to work, so that they do not need allowances, so that they do not need the favors, so that they do not need to go back to politicians whenever they get backwards. What really raises a reasonable question is why there is a differentiation in the minimum monthly instalment between farmers and other debtors of social security institutions and why there is a difference in the rate of increase and interest discounts. This creates a situation in which self-employed, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, doctors, lawyers, engineers have a higher minimum dose for debt to social security bodies than farmers. Is there some kind of class separation? Is that counted? Have we seen that way it'll work better? And if it's counted, why don't we see it? The calculation of the instalments to the social security institutions does not take into account the income of the debtor, while the tax liabilities are taken into account. In practice, as algorithm is made, and because there is an upper limit of 20 instalments, the amount of income only plays a role for debts of 15,000-20,000 euros. If the debts are EUR 20,000, the same instalment will be paid by someone who has an income of EUR 30,000 and someone with an income of EUR 10,000 and as much as the debt increases - it is of interest - so much does not play a part in the calculation of the monthly instalment. Improving proposals - that from the point of view of the river - is that when we legislate something that will apply for ten years - because the hundred and twenty doses mean, ten years - there must be a provision for indexation and adjustment of income criteria, because our economy is coming out of recession and fortunately. If there is no provision for adjustment, a type of injustice is created against future taxpayers. In addition, base income is not a good idea to refer to a single year. It is much better to be the average of three years. This is obviously the case for self-employed people who may have twenty years each year, the other having five, and if they are tempered by the wrong years for them, they will have to respond to a burden they cannot. However, it also applies to workers who may lose their jobs or find jobs. After all, it is much more reasonable and that is what international experience shows. Finally, there must be more doses for businesses. I'm not saying there's a hundred twenty, but the sixteen, the eighteen are very few. I think you should consider and reach about - at least at least - the thirty-six. And the last minutes that I have left, I want to talk about widow's pensions. Greece, our system denies pensioning women, putting a threshold in the fifteen years to create an insurance bond and so forth and justifies them when their husband dies. Instead of there being a national pension for all at sixty-seven, in fact there are increases for the husband who eventually create an increasing gender gap in pensions. The treatment of women has always been adapted to the model of the general of the 1950s, who took a young wife, she has a lifelong pension, her single daughter. Fortunately, that is no longer the case, but the perception of how women function and what we expect of them is, unfortunately, still largely the same. In the specific measures it seems very generous that the pension rate of the deceased rises from 50% to 70%, but before we celebrate, we have to think that this 70% will be measured on another denominator, i.e. after the recalculation. And I would very much like some examples of what this means in relation to the previous situation, who benefit and who lose. There are three attitudes on the issue of age. It says somewhere the bill says that for women over fifty years of age it is not possible, it is not employable, efforts have been made, but they are not responding. Besides the fact that anyone who looks at the data of the labour force survey sees that this is not the case - many women at that age tried it because they were forced to work, even for the first time - it is extremely paternalistic for women. It is much better to give incentives and facilities for reintegration into the labour market than to say that the age limit is being abolished, because there is nothing a woman can do after fifty. How, in three years, will it become an employee? He can't do it. That is an unacceptable perception, and I am sorry to say that. Now, when it comes to expanding health insurance to surviving children from twenty-four to thirty-five, what can I tell you? Why would he be at thirty-five and not be at fifty-five? I mean, it's just a measure that sounds like a little present. And as far as the orphans are concerned from eighteen to twenty-four - whether they work or not - all the three that I have told you and the orphans' insurance up to thirty-five and pensions up to twenty-four - regardless of whether they are studying - and the ageing of women, in terms of women's age, show a paternalism that cancels the value, the importance of individual effort and, above all, the responsibility of the state to help her deliver for economic independence, not a continuous dependency. The national pension cannot be given as a percentage, it must be given as a whole. It's funny to have national pension rates. The three-year adjustment must be maintained, but active measures must be taken to employ older people. At the same time, the age limit of fifty-two and fifty-five years respectively has to be retained. Also, the years of marriage until the husband migrates to the other world should not become three, should be five. Decrease in three reminds of a long-term care contract. It does not honor the caretakers or the caregivers and not at all the Greek Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u127	Thank you, too. And we move on with the Minister of State, Mr Army, to support Amendment No 2175/183 on the arrangements for the themes of the Ministry of Culture and Sport. Here, Mr. Army, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is an important day for the Ministry of Culture and the Government. The emblematic legislation that has been drafted in the Ministry of Culture in the previous period, which shields the ownership and management of our political heritage during the biennial period, is to be added to the government's positive measures which seal the passage through a new era. With this constitutional level legislation, the protection provided for in the archaeological law for monuments that are earlier than 1453 extends also to monuments that are later in chronology, but also to organized archaeological sites, museums and in general the properties that serve the public purpose of protecting and highlighting our cultural heritage by adding beyond their ownership and management. I did not mean to mention the false infections of supposedly transferring cultural heritage. I did not mean to mention the national panic that the Opposition tried to provoke in vain the previous period. The repetition of the unfounded - I repeat, unfounded - claims that were heard a moment ago require me to answer: never has a single property of cultural heritage been transferred, and that is because the archaeological exception is explicit and clear to the law. What was in place was an open procedure for the control of ten thousand hundreds of nineteen codes in order to identify which ones are subject to exceptions. Both of the three thousand thirty codes checked and subject to the archaeological exception of the law were made public - one by one - by the Ministry of Culture. That's the truth. Ladies and gentlemen, from the outset we have made public a clear road map which we have followed precisely in the past few months and we are ending it here in this House today with this legislation, which we call on all the wings to support, in practice, rather than with concrete chips and parallels, our firm will to protect and ensure the public character of our cultural heritage. Everything else is cheap opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u129	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u130	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u131	Here, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u132	Mr President, because Mr. Army may leave, may I ask him a question about his amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u133	You can, but no dialogue, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. I could speak in my position on the amendments, but I imagine that Mr Army will not be here. Mr. Army, I have documented with my repeated questions the fact that the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotos, hid the tens of thousands of nineteen properties, because in the list we found in the FEK, there is no title of any real estate, but only the FEK, i.e. the code of real estate, and you can't find any KEK that corresponds to any real estate. Journalistic surveys showed that among these tens of thousands of nineteen real estates were hundreds of thousands of real estates that are cultural monuments. And you said that you raised the decision as to the two thousand thirty-three codes. So, since Mr Tsakalotos does not give us the property in particular - he only gives us the KEK - can you tell the Greek Parliament that by the end of the debate you will bring us the list of monuments that you have removed from the ten thousand nineteen? We need to know that it was the White Tower, that it was the Fortress in Chania. Can you tell us? That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u135	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u136	Mr. Katsotis, you want to ask a question, not a placement, don't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u137	Question for a minute because the Minister can leave and he will not be able to answer. On the basis of the amendment, we have asked many questions. Seventeen times we tried with this question to answer the Treasury, Mr. Chakalotos. And seventeen times he didn't come. Among the archaeological sites in the amendment you are bringing today, there is an area, for example, for which Mr Tsipras went and made a full festival - a fact that he was given to the municipality. It's the Wireless St. Demetrius. And while he did these festivities and said he was granted to the municipality, then we see him in these ten thousand nineteen real estates that go to TIAD. In any case it will have to be apologised in a world. And not just there. For the Nastos farms in Ilioupoli, the former mayor has been in prison for several months to safeguard the workers. He made schools, kindergartens. And that's on the list of property to be used by HICP. Someone needs to answer what's going to happen to these properties.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u138	Mr. Army, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u139	Mr. Koutsoukos is breaking open doors. I repeat that the Ministry of Culture, with its announcement, will re-publish the link - it has made both three thousand and thirty-three properties public.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u140	Can you bring it tomorrow?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u141	It's nothing. It's a retweet. So we'll do it. In a moment, in half an hour. It's open online. It's an official announcement from the Ministry of Culture. But I have to comment here on this: Mr Koutsouko, we should have been together towards Civic Opposition, which the Chief said months ago openly that he was positive in the private sector's involvement in the management of archaeological sites. I don't see you doing this, but you're still turning your arrows against the government. I am fully covered by the position of the Ministry of Finance for the mistake of my own strategic choice made by social democracy in Greece in recent years. I have nothing more to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u142	Ninety-three speakers have been registered. The sitting will be closed at 12 noon. Under the Rules of Procedure, speaking time is five minutes. There's gonna be a tolerance, but we don't get to ten minutes. Be five plus a minute at most. The first speaker for today has the floor, Mr Excellency, MP of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate in this House last week has shown once again that the attempt of the Officerial Opposition to transfer the agenda to every success of the government, in every positive measure we take, falls into the blanket. The battle between mud, make news and slanders and a policy with real impact on citizens and society is unequal. And you know why? Because the battle is given to the real economy and not to the virtual reality of the mediator establishment that supports you and that you do not fail to keep feeding with scenarios, catastrophes, lies and panic. We are implementing a policy for the citizen. We don't build a political scene for the viewer. Our poll is held every day by and next to the worker, the pensioner, the young man. Your own poll is done on order and is intended for internal consumption. And because you like set-offs, you can answer what you've finally identified. Do you identify with Mr. Webber and his views or do you vote for the new measures? Or do you identify with everything and eventually nothing? The new measures that we are coming to vote on today are the follow-up and, at the same time, the outcome of our policy. They are the continuation of a political reconstruction of the social state, with the gradual safeguarding of the rights of citizens to health, decent work and decent living. It is the result of the Greek Government's success to lead the country to safe exit from the memorials, with society standing. Of the many regulations provided for in the bill and the amendments, I refer to the most important: one hundred and twenty instalments, the arrangement of debts to the insurance funds, the tax, the OTAs. It is a measure that will relieve thousands of citizens that the policies of the memorandum have made them difficult to meet their obligations. Increase the debt threshold from EUR 4 000 to EUR 6 000 for farmers, detached by a large number that could not be retired. Significant strengthening of the status of surviving spouses with the intervention of widow's pensions. The age limits are abolished. It increases the rate of widow's pension from 50% to 70%. The children of the deceased will continue to receive pension until their twenty-four years. The minimum marriage period shall be reduced from three to five years. Here I would like to refer to survivors who, since the date of entry into force of Law No4387/2016 and who have been married for three years, have lost their pension entitlement because of the increase in the duration of the marriage required in five years. In order to avoid injustice against them, it is appropriate to amend Article 19(7) of the draft law in order to reduce the duration of the marriage required from five to three years. Retirement opportunities for more workers in heavy and unhealthy. Pension increase in the case of accidents at work. Strengthen the protection framework for workers. Adopt for the first time the justification for redundancies. Penalties in the event of obstruction of APRC controls. The third pension, on a permanent basis, rather than the lymphs you refer to as an election allowance. Reduction of VAT. Abolition of the solidarity levy. That's it. This is the policy for Greece of many. A coherent, coherent policy, with concrete measures, based on a long-term strategy. From Greece to many of you it separates you a large gap which is not filled with communication tricks or election krone. The close and long-term relationship with the interests of the few and chosen, whom you represent, puts you in deed toward the people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] From Greece, you are divided by the walls you have raised on your own day - and New Democracy and KINAL - with redundancies and available resources. With wage and pension cuts. With the dissolution of the insurance funds. With the break-up of industrial relations. With the degradation of the educational system. With the impoverishment of middle and low social strata. From Greece of many to you divides the program - a threat you are announcing, a threat that you will end the disaster plan that you have implemented in your days, with seven days' work, the reduction of allowances, private insurance. In conclusion, you are in vain trying to change the agenda. Our agenda includes real measures and policies and your own is identified on a case-by-case basis, includes theoretical structures and is intended for mid-consumer consumption. The people will not respond to false dilemmas you want and you will do well to impose on public debate. It will respond to the real political problems facing the forthcoming elections and to the great and substantial dilemma if we want to return to Greece by the elites and oligarchs or if we move to Greece by many. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u144	Thank you, too. The speaker of the New Democracy MEP Mr Metarakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u145	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have lived a four-year period in which the country has taken great steps back. You think with some announcements from the Prime Minister you'll get abdicated sins for your four years. You reduce some taxes that you increased with the third memorandum, but you do not vote for the protection of the tax paid by the New Democracy. The citizens know what they have been through, what they have experienced on SYRIZA - ANEL and will respond appropriately to the forthcoming elections. In your election panic you wrap up benefits check on the election lists, twist the positions of the New Democracy and divide Greek society with your word. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister in his recent speech in plenary has succeeded against the new insurance system proposed by the New Democracy. He talked maliciously about "insurance Pinochet," proving that he doesn't know what "insurance Pinochet" was, nor of course did he bother reading our proposal. The insurance system applied in Chile had exactly the same disadvantage as Greece's current system. Both systems were essentially systems of only one pillar, putting all the “fresh” of pensioners and workers into a single basket. And in that sense, Minister, there is now an insurance policy in Greece, and that is what we need to change. Our aim must be to move to a new insurance system that risks share and thus reduce, in the long term, pensions and current pensioners and current workers, that is, the prospect of the insurance system. The New Democracy believes in the public, distributive and redistributive first pillar. Let's finish this conversation. Our position has been stable and clear for many decades since the establishment of social security institutions. But we believe in a fairer system, more rewarding. We also believe in the need to reduce insurance contributions and workers and employers by 25%, in order for workers to breathe, to see an increase in their real wages, to breathe, that is, to help the growth of the Greek economy and, therefore, to increase the minimum wage, as Kyriakos Mitsotakis has announced in the years to come an increase in the minimum wage to twice the rate of GDP growth. As far as supplementary and occupational pensions are concerned, occupational funds must operate in a capitalist logic. Today the insured give a third of their income, knowing that this money does not belong to them. Nothing gets out of the way for them. Nothing saves it. Today's insurers simply hope that in future others will pay their own pensions. This, however, has a degree of danger. It raises doubts because of demographic and budgetary pressures, as today's pensioners have experienced in the most unfortunate way. Let us speak clearly to the citizens. The system today is not insurance, it is essentially tax and part of it is paid for pensions. Speaking of the supplementary and occupational insurance system that should be part of the second pillar, SYRIZA today effectively depreciates it by absorbing it into the first pillar, in fact by safeguarding the current members of subsidiary insurance pensions - tips after reductions in the Katrugalos law, but at the same time by charging them 7% of their income. We always speak clearly in the New Democracy. The distribution system remains to support the weakest and ensure transgenic solidarity. However, it must now be individual, it must be on the account of the insured, in their own individual share, and it must be sure of today's workers. A new system for young insured persons will manage the state and be under the supervision of regulators and the Bank of Greece. As for the cost of transition, to which the Prime Minister referred, it is spread over three decades and is overshadowed by the multiplier effects of the accumulated funds that will be created in the Greek economy. We are creating a system that the insured will have personal choices and we are creating national reserves that will support the Greek economy, as is the case in all the western countries, so that we are not only exposed, as today, to foreign institutional investors, whose behaviour is obviously more volatile. And the third pillar will remain optional, but with tax incentives, which will enhance savings and improve the quality of life of future pensioners. In this comprehensive proposal, ladies and gentlemen, the government has to counteract the approximately two thousand pensions that are not issued, the poaching shadows in the pension protocol and the elements of the 'HLIOS', the reduced pensions of the Katorugalos -35% lower for those who are now applying for retirement - the widow's pensions which at the last minute, after the general outcry, are corrected, according to the suggestions and suggestions made by Mr Mitsotakis. And yesterday, once again, you were caught lying and twisting reality. Because the "PASTRATO" contract, on the one hand, was approved by the current Minister, Mrs Ahtsoglou, and Mr Mitsotakis never referred to seven days' work, but to seven days' operation of businesses, as is already done in many transport, nursing and other units of the Greek economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u146	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u147	I shall conclude with one word, Mr President. It proved, however, that you, ladies and gentlemen, in 2018, voted for the seven-day work in the area of tourism and brought what you call the "working middle ages". Lies, poaching and distorting the truth!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u148	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u149	This is what you oppose in the New Democracy programme, but fortunately you are leaving. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u150	Thank you, too. Mr Constantopoulos, Member of the Democratic Alliance, has the floor. Here, Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u151	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what we have been through last week in the debate on the government's vote of confidence and, of course, all the things that have been followed are both government and opposition. With grief, I would really say, I followed the mudology between the Prime Minister and the Chief of Staff of the Opposition. Conclusion one: Personal Attacks, strikes below the waist, fires against the reputation of families and positions that do not honor the function we have undertaken. The government, I'd say, and the Civic Opposition have created an artificial diploma. Because artificial is when we have a multi-party parliament, poor majorities, and that is to make society civilised in the run-up to elections, abuse the parliamentary procedures and, of course, no matter what the citizens actually experience in their daily lives. In fact, I'd both say you don't care who pays the marble. SYRIZA, the government, now away from light years from the Thessaloniki programme, with which he became a government, attempts today with tips to overthrow the collective feeling, that he charged with greater weighted households and businesses, with the measures of an inappropriate memorandum that cost almost 200 billion Greek citizens. Also, that with the surpluses that have been committed it has removed into just three years 13 billion euros from households and businesses and wants to remove another 5.5 billion by 2022, that it has committed, I would say, to productive reconstruction and fair growth, but ultimately has managed to promote policies with reduced public investment, without structural changes, but at a tax and insurance burden, by crushing every investment effort together and by permanently and irrevocably weakening the middle-class. And of course, I would say, to cover up the manipulation of institutions, that - give with economic factors and media factors, the client state that she has set up and which favours regulations for them, in every bill she brings, there are specific regulations. On the other hand, New Democracy, while respecting the law of silence for the 2004-2009 government period, for the caramanic era, I would say, at the time when it dropped the country's rocks, is calling for elections today and promises a development shock, while it is drafted with Europe that Mrs Merkel's party and today Mr Webber, who have turned our country into a scapegoat of the European Union to cover their own mistakes. And it must be made clear, ladies and gentlemen, to the Greek people now, just before the European elections, that every vote in the New Democracy is a vote in the party of Mrs Merkel and Mr Webber, in the party expressing the institutional stagnation of the European Union and leading to German Europe. And every vote in SYRIZA is a vote in the vision for the Europe of Melanson, which does not respect human rights. It is the Europe of Melansson, which undermines the Union's political unification project. So the risk of both the European elections and the elections is not double, it is not Tsipras or Mitsotakis. The risk is stagnation or change. Because the Government and Census serve, I would say, stagnation, while the Change Movement, PASOK, serves change through a real, progressive agenda. The European elections are neither a referendum nor an election process. It is of paramount importance for the future of the European Union, and only if the progressive powers, the progressive front, wanting to correct the institutional weaknesses of the Union, can we hope for the unity of the peoples rather than the numbers. Because the result of the European elections will determine whether the Dublin Agreement will be changed to allocate refugees and immigrants throughout Europe, based on the population and unemployment of each country, that is to say, whether our country will be able to get rid of the large volume of flows. The result of the European elections will determine whether the European Civil Protection Mechanism will be further strengthened, which enables Member States to buy 90% of their fire-fighting instruments and repair their national instruments with 70% of the European Union's funding so that our country can easily prepare a modern fleet of civil protection media, so that we do not again live last summer's nightmare and tragic times, not to live another Eye. It should be today's confrontation, ladies and gentlemen, that it should be a political controversy and not personal one, a constructive one, and not a senselessly destructive mudology. Ladies and gentlemen, our answer to the hundred and twenty instalments is one: growth, which is being sought. In 2018, despite forecasts, it was below 2% when GDP could increase at twice the rate. Investments are falling by 12% in 2018, disguising with data the hollow words of the Ministry of Economy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like your tolerance, Mr President. Today public debt reaches 335 billion, i.e. 181% of GDP, and undermines the future of the new generation, the future of the country. By 5% it increased only in the fourth quarter in 2018. The unpaid taxes of the Greeks increased by EUR 2 billion only in the first two months of 2019. Under forced confiscation measures there are now 1.2 million households. First you charged them with over-taxation, with the great insurance reforms, and today you regulate them. I would remind you that in 2014, the public deficit was 73 billion and you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, reached 104 billion, while the payments to the insurance funds were 11.5 billion and reached 35 billion. Well, it's a joke. Your adjustment, gentlemen of the government, falls short of our own regulation of Law No.4305/2014, which I would like to remind you you did not vote for, as well as the regulations of the 100 doses of 2015. We have tabled a comprehensive proposal and we invite you to discuss it. Our proposal is replicated by the New Democracy. What you should bring is a simple one, a simple arrangement, which will give genuine access to households and businesses. I note the draft law, which provides for eighteen to thirty instalments for a large part of the businesses, while, at the same time, combining the minimum dose with the income criteria, I would say that it results in much less than a hundred twenty instalments. We told you: investment, investments, investments. Abolition of the customer state, abolition of bureaucracy, a stable and fair tax system, to respond to the major problem of the crisis as a development. Well, development. That's the answer. Otherwise, we will get the state to take the wallet from the public and demand that the citizen say, and thank you, from his own credits, which he gave to the government and every government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u152	Thank you. Mr. Panayotarus, Member of the Golden Dawn, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Papanatsiou, so you don't know from another, next week I'm going to make the central election gathering for the Attica district in a private place. I'm telling you to call the owner again, in an indirect way to tell him not to give the space to the fascists, to give us half a unit. So this bill comes, after more than eight years of memoranda, unbearable measures and constant increases in what you can and you cannot imagine, in taxes, in value added tax, in contributions, increases in PPC, in EEAS. After the armies of unemployed people, do not boast about reducing unemployment, because this is a virtual reduction, since most jobs now have to do with flexible forms of work. Five hundred thousand, about, Greeks who legally emigrated to foreign countries, work, produce, create and contribute to the insurers of the countries that have gone. We had the closure of hundreds of thousands of businesses and the transfer of thousands of others to foreign, border, third or elsewhere. We had the launching of the public debt from about 120%, which was a percentage of GDP in 2010, to around 182%, with upward trends in 2019, with the launching of private debt, which is growing rapidly every month. We had the scandalous favourite treatments towards all kinds of foreign and illegal immigrants who "work" legally or illegally in our home country in relation to Greek small and medium-sized enterprises. We had the scandalous favourite treatments at the expense of those you were once fighting for, but now you are taking your baths together, where tens of millions of fines are recorded from the appropriate Ministries of Papanatsiou and other ministries - see some canalarchs, who, as a result of five years of accident, were lost over 90 million euros and more than many other entrepreneurs - while for the small and medium-sized ones every day, every three and a little, to see the tax mechanisms hunting Greek citizens unresponsively. You are bringing, with all that is happening, a bill that you say is potentially bringing down part of all these unpleasant burdens, with which you are destroying the Greek people. You've taken them a hundred and returned one, and that's under predetermined conditions. For example, you are boasting for the second time that you are giving the thirteenth pension. Is this big lie you're saying about the three, four, or five hundred that they get, fragmented and not permanently, some classes of pensioners, there is a risk that very soon, indeed, the pension will be in three, four or five hundred? You also say that you are reducing VAT on PPC's accounts, when you have inflated and stacked PPC's accounts with all sorts of unrelated debts and more than the vast majority of Greeks can no longer pay the account and make the adjustment or adjustment in the arrangement or not at all or steal by reconnecting the electricity or all that is happening in a European country, otherwise in the year 2019. These measures you bring are aspirin to cancer. A drop in the ocean. It's like the guy in debt from the casino that comes out and gives him the guy who lends black money at the last minute some money and takes a breath for a few seconds and then he's burnt again. There are too many problems that you do nothing about. We have 24% VAT, income tax on the god, a 100% tax advance - we will keep telling you - bureaucracy, insurance contributions that touch 26%, racism against the Greeks, such as in Granny with the terminals that went to taxes, while the hordes of illegal immigrants selling in nice ways outside the ASE, from law and elsewhere, are unpunished and unpunished. With all this, do you expect there to be any kind of growth? Oh, no. That's the ones in the central political scene. The same in the Attica region, where all candidates are now talking about entrepreneurship. And here we laugh, of course, because the works and the days of everyone have a name, address, and we all know well what is going on. You can't fix any of this. This and much more will be possible in the interests of the Greeks and especially the small and medium-sized ones, who have been affected for many years more than anyone else, if there is a will, will and mood by the central government, which is something that does not appear. This does not seem to be because most of you have voted for all three unbearable memoranda, you have implemented unbearable measures, you continue to take measures from the window. On one hand, you're taking the other. All this is at the expense of the Greeks and in favour of all those who do not want the good of this country. The government and opposition are moving in the exact same climate. It reminds us of the divisions and the coconut battles, when SYRIZA was in the opposition and the New Democracy colluded with KINAL. Our fellow citizens, don't bite out of what's tasting you and don't try out of the spoiled hay they serve you. If you want real growth, change, progress and prosperity, you will have to try something that has not been tested so far, because all those who promise you to have rocked rabbits are the same who for decades have been ruling this place, abused it, abused their own parties with hundreds of millions of euros and owe anyone who speaks Greek and not only. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u154	Me, too. We proceed with the next speaker, Mr Steriou, a Member of the Communist Party of Greece. Mr. Steeriou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. The measures announced by the government and included in this bill and the amendments, in our view, are a drop in the ocean and a gift for the popular layers. This is because the overall anti-grass framework, in which all of you naturally agree, based on the implementing laws of the three Memorandums which none of them has been abolished, remains and is being strengthened. Let us not forget, the third memorandum that has "haired" in the previous two, you have all voted together. The government is making use of these measures to give its forgiveness to the maintenance of the entire anti-French arsenal which brought our people to this point, but above all as an alibi for the escalation of the attack on him, namely the continuation of the anti-Fleet policy which at its core has the interests of capital and not the interests of our people, and that is why it will continue to break the interests of the workers. It is maintained intact all the antique legal arsenal of all three Memorandums, which has created a jungle in industrial relations. This jungle, Minister of Labour, which has abolished fixed and permanent work, fixed daily working time, collective agreements, work with rights, you and BSE call it "flexibility". New word! Let us see, then, Minister and gentlemen of the government, some of the legal measures for flexicurity - 'Jungle' for workers. Does rotation work not apply - even unilaterally by the employer - to the availability or rental of workers by contractors without any right, which in too many places is now a norm? Is apprenticeship, the practice of making particular use of tourism, the pillar of the economy, to ensure free work? Does the one-year trial period not apply, and the fact that when the worker is made redundant is not entitled to compensation? The list of this work jungle is long and is constantly expanding to the benefit of, of course, the employer. These measures are giving air to the workers' sails, which changes workers like shirts, so that they do not gain employment and wage rights. Proof of this is - with your data, of course - that last year the redundancies were about two million, that is, those who are the workers, that is, the recycling of workers, all the workplaces, in its majesty! Here, in Rule 48, Minister, you say that the dismissal must be justified by the employer so that it cannot be fired arbitrarily. Now the stones are also laughing because the employer can find any pretext to lay off. But the main thing is this: have you not released team redundancies? What's your reason for dismissal? Do you not have full - but full - validity of fixed-term contracts, two months, five months, eight months, particularly in the LAGs, to alter unemployment? A company in Volos, a large industry - if you want its name, I will tell you later - since 2012 employs about 100 employees - in total two hundred fifty - with contracts per month. And he does this by blackmailing them to be good kids, not to ask, not to be applied, to renew the monthly contract. Six years, a month of work contract! This terrible thing is happening! All of this - I think, of course, that you know it, you are not fatal - results in 55% of recruitment being with these unacceptable forms of employment and with an average monthly income of not more than 400 euros. These are your elements, they're not ours. That's the reality! And that is what you have the courage to call 'normality', 'fair growth' and'reintroduction of labour rights'. Let's see now, because there's been a lot of talk about some other issues. With regard to the working climate in the workplace - I speak firsthand - terrorism, immunity and the arbitraryness of the labour force breaks bones. If a worker is conceived to claim self-evidently, he is on the loop of dismissal on his neck. You're celebrating for all this crappy reality! Good for you! Good for you, we'll talk! However, the workers who taste this unacceptable policy of all of you will punish you quickly and strictly. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance, please, as you have shown the others. You are cut off, ladies and gentlemen, by a number of speakers - and triumphantly indeed - that you have reinstated the collective agreements. But let's see what you've brought back to prove the majesty of your deception! Let us say that a trade union organization is signing a collective agreement with the corresponding sectoral employers' organization. Firstly - and you know - you have not shielded yourself in advance by legislating that, in order to make this collective labour agreement compulsory, should the employer voluntarily provide your Ministry with a register of members proving that it covers 51% of the industry? We ask this: who will do this, since it is optional? Will employers take their eyes out on their own? Hey, they're not stupid! Conclusion: No one will. So the collective agreement does not apply. Secondly, do you not know that in all branches over half the workers, as I said before, whether they work in flexible forms of employment or are they hired to contractors? Are these covered by the collective agreement? Oh, no. A clear example of what I am saying now is the tourism sector, where the collective agreement that is in force and you even have a flag applies only to 10% of the workers in the sector, since 15 different forms of work apply in this sector. As for the minimum wage, what did you do? You activated the Brutsi Act that, while you complained to him before, you made him yours, with which the wages and wages will not be the result of a racing claim for the trade unions with the BSE, but will be by ministerial decision, always according to the competitiveness and profitability of industrialists. There is also the possibility if your industrialists say they have no profitability or no competitiveness, there is also a reduction. That's right! After all that I have said - and it is the reality and the truth - we will be telling you that you are mocking workers inconsistently, because if you really wanted to bring back the minimum wage, the collective agreements, the abolition of all the labour laws, you have had and you have nothing but to vote for the proposal of the five hundred thirty trade union organisations that we have tabled since November 2016. Really, where'd you get that? Did you add salt and snatch her? Where is he? Where's that proposal? But you zealously brought in December 2018 and you all voted together, with New Democracy, with Mr. Brutsi and with PASOK, to limit even the abolition of the most sacred right, that strike. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So we too - and I am ending, Mr President, and I thank you - will not stop claiming the reintroduction of all workers' rights. We tell you something, ladies and gentlemen of the government and the other parties, which you support with the bounces of this barbaric capitalist system, which you have a gospel and you worship. "Capitalism" is called. In the name of this competitiveness and profitability, you have created horns in the workplace, resulting in thousands of accidents at work with dozens of dead people. More specifically - and this is important, it is your element - with elements of the EIA in 2016, there were six thousand five hundred 15 accidents at work, of which seventy-five were fatal. That is, every five days we also had a dead worker on the altar of industrial profitability. For the other years there is no evidence. This, then, only shows and confirms that the chapter, which you all faithfully serve, kills and does not count on human life. So this is what you all serve, which closes the future and takes life from the workers. For our part, we invite the workers...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u156	Please finish, Mr. Steeriou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u157	Okay, I've got one page, Mr. President. I've got eight minutes. I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u158	We're in the eighth minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u159	I'm done, Mr. President, okay. It's a page. We therefore call on our workers and people to close their ears to the old and new saviors because they have been tried and guided by their own modern needs, to fight together with their unions, by colluding with the line of our party, to regain everything you have stolen from them and to pave the way for the definitive discharge of their suffering, by overthrowing the barbarous exploiting capitalist way of organising the economy, which gives rise to poverty, impoverishment, war and refugee. We call on our workers and people on this line, with these criteria on 26 May, to vote in the European elections to the European Parliament and in the regional and local elections to the People's Alliance with the carnation supported by the Communist Party. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u160	Thank you, too. Undersecretary, Mr. Barkas, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u161	Mr President, thank you very much. I've got five minutes, too? I think that's not real. It's a given I'll use more time. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, is tabled nine years after the vote on the first memorandum and nine months after the country's exit from the adjustment programme. It is the second series bill of the Ministry of Labour, which comes to reset a series of working rights after a long period of application in Greece of the most reactionary neoliberal policies, a period that led the working landscape to complete dismantling and triggered the exacerbation of social and economic inequalities at the expense of the lower incomes of the country. This bill is another milestone, in the effort that we have started since we took over the country's governance, to take the place of all those who have lifted the burden of the crisis, of the wage earners, of the free professionals, of the precarious workers, of the pensioners, of the unemployed. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Today we are addressing those who have been deprived of the right to negotiate on equal terms their working power to those who have passed on the cost of a crisis that they have not created. Because the crisis was not neutral. He had losers and winners. It was a process that in other words broke into social cohesion and undermined the restoration of the Greek economy to orbit growth in terms of both economic and social sustainability. Those who consider the Memorandum to blame the Left for ideology because it defends the right to employment that ensures a decent living wage because it has abolished the disgraceful underprivileged wage for young people because it has restored the power of collective bargaining because it is today legislating against undoubted redundancies and because it considers that seven-day work is not an element of economic competitiveness, even when the weekly working time is falling at European level. For growth to exist, it must be growth for everyone, and it must focus on the work. So this bill is essentially a step not only to restore democracy to work, but a step towards the process of transforming the productive model of the country, a productive model that will invest in labour and man, a productive model that can be truly competitive through the creation of quality jobs, which will produce high added value. Therefore, behind the opposition to consent to the government's attempt to restore the injustices of previous years and to create a web of protection for the world of work, there is a different political project that is counterproductive to our own, which cannot cover its political and strategic deadlock, no matter how disastrous it launches all the fictitious elements. And because it is at least vicious, on today's day those who brought the crisis to the Greek economy and then carried out a plan of violent labour liberation, I will respond by reading some information, the only way they can be read, i.e. starting from the previous years and reaching the most recent and comparing monthly data with monthly data and annually. For undeclared work, the annual average for 2014 was 19.20%, while in 2018 it appears at 8.90%. Here I must point out that these numbers respond as findings in all the checks carried out by the Labour Inspectorate during the reference periods. Mr Brutsis and his government have also contributed to weakening the Labour Inspectorate as an audit mechanism through the abolition of two hundred and nine organic posts and twenty-six organic units. With regard to what has been said about the alleged outbreak of parttime work, the reality is refuting them again. According to the annual issue of the ‘ERGAN’ system, eighty-three thousand five hundred new jobs were created between 2017 and 2018. Of these 28% are parttime, while 72% are full-time. During this period, sixty thousand seventeen new jobs were created. But I would like, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to go through the bill. This draft law demonstrates that the period after August 2018 is a different period for the social majority, because we are planning and implementing policies that restore the reduction of their income, with targeted and permanent measures. More specifically, in 2019, we have been reducing VAT on catering and food from 24% to 13%, while in energy from 13% to 6%. We are introducing the new thirteenth drafting of a permanent income support measure to all pensioners in the country on a permanent and stable basis. Is the 10th European election and redemption allowance, as Mr Mitsotakis says? When the President of the Civil War calls employment conquests that his Government abolished as allowances and in particular pre-elections, he does not turn against the government but offends pensioners and people of labor, just as when he described the Christmas gift as a customer state. We would also ask the New Democracy to decide whether its problem with the thirteenth pension is what Mr Mitsotakis said that it is not possible to pay it and would not do so or whether it is low. It has already been mentioned by numbers and in detail what each category of pensioners is taking, but I will repeat it. Full pension up to EUR 500, 70% of the pension up to EUR 600, 50% of the pension up to EUR 1,000 and 30% of the pension from EUR 1,000 and over. But to be understood, our main difference is that we have secured resources both for the country and for the insurance system, so that the tenth pension is permanent not only in law but also in financial terms. I would like to refer to the insurance system. What did we receive in 2015? A multi-purpose system to limit the collapse with a deficit of more than EUR 1,1 billion, twelve horizontal successive pension cuts totalling EUR 45 billion, four hundred thousand unpaid outstanding pensions and the debt of the insurance funds exceeded EUR 30 billion. With the reform that we did in 2016, we now have an insurance system that provides transparency, justice, relief of free professionals and other social groups, as well as sustainability. This draft law concludes the government's coordinated intervention, as we allow a million three thousand debtors to close down with the debts of the past. The innovation of this arrangement is that the main...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u162	Mr. Barca, let's get this over with, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u163	Mr President, I would like a little more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u164	How much more? I gave you two and a half more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u165	I would like a little more time, Mr President. I'll be done soon. The main innovation in this regulation is that by cutting the basic debt plus the surcharge the new debt, which is a 65% cut. Because I do not want to claim time from the Members and because the rest of the ministers will also speak, I want to get to the issues concerning my own portfolio. The main arrangements for the Labour Inspectorate are three. The employer is now required to indicate in advance and up to one hour after they have been authorized to work in the "ERGAN", and not once a year as it was. With this arrangement we will be able to monitor the actual grant of licences and allowances linked to them, which we have not been able to do so far. In addition, workers are given full access to "ERGAN" in relation to their own forms. Employees thus receive information on their employment situation, we are also suspending the three-month period for judicial review of the employee's claims from vacant redundancy and the six-month period for judicial claims for redundancies. We exclude from the self-sacrificial process the employees of the Labour Inspectorate or the Ministry of Labour, thereby protecting them from unfounded or preconceived sues, so that they can exercise their duties without extortion and intimidation. Finally, between the OAED regulations, I would like to focus on converting working teachers to substitutes and increasing the apprenticeship allowance of the students of the OAED's students. In conclusion, I would like to answer whether in the end with all these provisions of the bill that we have presented, all we do is return to 2015. This would happen if we restored the minimum wage for young people to EUR 510 for the rest of the 586 and not to 650 as they are now. We will come in 2015 if the collective agreements were not in force. It would be in 2015 if five civil servants were to leave the public office and there would be an intake to five redundancies and not one to one as is now the case. In conclusion, I would like to make a very small comment on the statement by Mr Mitsotakis, who is problematic and has to understand. If Mr Mitsotakis has to resign, I think he is himself, because his real statement is this - and I am closing with that, Mr President. Mr Mitsotakis says in the video: "When an enterprise agrees with the workers, with an operational contract to go from five to seven days with the agreement of the workers and with much better pay than they would be workers before and with increased rights and agrees between the two parties, we do nothing but acknowledge that we are in another world that is changing, and that workers, businesses and the state must adapt to this new reality." Mr. Mitsotakis in this statement doesn't say anything about seven days' operation of business, he talks about seven days' work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u166	Mrs. Jackri has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u167	First of all, I would like to express my sympathy to the New Democracy, recalling a joke of economists and politicians saying that "when you think you have said something new, you probably haven't seen all the literature well." This has happened with your Chief, dear and dear newly-liberal friends of the New Democracy, who wanting to bring something new, in fact carried old views and positions of early capitalism of the 19th century, as Euclid Tsakalotus would say. If, of course, you want to bring something into international literature and be very supportive of Mr Webber with fresh ideas, I would ask you to resort to something completely innovative and new, which is no other than the eight-day weekly work. This is something, really, that has never been heard and never been tested before. And I would say that this, together with the Pinochet insurance with the 12-hour work, with the abolition of the Christmas gift and the fund that Mrs Marva Mitsotakis wants to make for the service of investors from abroad for investment in our country, will be able to create even a two-digit growth rate. I am not sure that this two-digit growth rate will concern the many, but I am sure it will be about the pockets of some friends and associates of the New Democracy. Friends and friends of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, in the vindication of the events that have actually caused the 'echiotism' (?) of Parliament with the sole responsibility of Kyriakos Mitsotakis in the past few days, it makes sense to divert the attention and society as a whole and many of us from the enormous symbolic but also essential importance of the bill that we are discussing today. It is symbolic, because by law of the state the policy of austerity of memorials began and by law of the state the world of work, the unemployed, the professionals, traders are again gaining access with this bill to social and economic normality. It is essential, as the bill focuses not only on the removal of burdens for the weak but also on the first memoranda of development by reducing VAT on focus, on basic food and on energy, and on the introduction of the tenth pension that will enhance the circulation of money on the markets. At the same time as this bill shows that the exit from the memoranda has shaped a real and not a pretext for the country's economic policy, as these measures are permanent and, at the same time, do not create a negative fiscal footprint on debt service and on the cost of lending the country. In addition to these permanent measures to remove the Memorandum of Inequality, we are called upon to vote on the comprehensive resolution of the debts that citizens and businesses have to bear in the insurance funds, taxes and municipalities. But let's see, ladies and gentlemen, what happened here, why are we here, why is this bill coming? Millions of Greeks found the two-year shock 2009-2011 to lose the land under their feet, and saw their lives suspended and destroyed during the three-year period 2012-2015. Millions of Greeks found themselves overdebted to banks, taxes and insurance funds, unable to support the banking system and many of them even found themselves delivered to loan sharks of all kinds and types. In short, the first two Memorandums which were socialised by the debts of public prosperous chefs were two major attempts. The first Memorandum was a desperate attempt to rescue in terms of an international economic situation - and it is even a choice that has already been decided by history - and the second memorandum proved historically that there was a hard neoliberal attempt to eliminate the middle class in our country and was voted on by the market knife in the neck. In the conflict of our conscience with the need to continue the operation of the Greek state, history has shown that some of us have taken the responsibility to say "reach no more, drive nowhere" and have been associated with the proposal to exit the crisis that Alexis Tsipras expressed. Not only were we entitled to go out of the memoranda, not only did we reduce unemployment and give wage dignity to hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens, but today in this Chamber we are discussing not the provision of financial painkillers but also the total treatment and restoration of millions of enrolled Greeks who could not be retired, could not escape the seizures in their bank accounts, could not operate their business in their name, could not finally transfer their assets and property to their children, citizens who, while supporting the insurance contributions for decades of the state's entire insurance system, are themselves insured and are persecuted by tax, citizens who have not been subject to anything and paid for everything. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But let's go, ladies and gentlemen, to see the truthfulness of the bill and its qualitative difference from other packages of measures and regulations that have come from previous governments. Let's go see, whether it is or not a bill aimed at lifting the hostage of the pensioners' candidates, especially those belonging to the small and medium-sized employers' charter. The fact is that this draft law introduces for the first time the recalculation of the principal debt of the interested party to become part of the arrangements of the main debt created between 2002 and 2016. The recalculation of the debts will take place on the basis of the objective financial possibilities that each debtor has and is in line with the new and fair system of taxation introduced by our Government. This will lead to a substantial write-down of the debt even of 70% and will make it sustainable for citizens and collectable for the state. It should not escape our attention that since 2008 when the crisis started in the first place in 2017, even the poorest insurer of the OAU paid the same insurance contributions as the country's financial elite. It is enough to see the rate of contribution of each category of debtors over time in order to find the advantage to the few and harmful for many of the situations that it held in relation to our country's insurance contributions system until 2017. By recalculating the contributions both sides and the debtors and the State, which would never have received the previous arrogant debts. And that is something which, ladies and gentlemen, we all know very well about today. The second point which deserves attention is the economic and social development of this measure. About four million fellow citizens ensure access to this new opportunity to restart their lives.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u168	Please complete, Mr. Jack.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u169	I will not be long, Mr President, just one more minute. In addition, eight thousand of our elderly fellow citizens will be allowed to be detached from a situation without a way out, while fulfilling all the other conditions for retirement, because of the existence of these debts in the insurance funds they could not be retired. Finally, particular mention should be made of farmers who, for their debts to the OGA, have the option of reducing the 100% increases not only of interest but also of fees and surcharges. Furthermore, the minimum amount of a monthly instalment instead of EUR 50 for the other categories of insured persons can be made 30 euros, and furthermore the limits set to enable them to be retired, which was with the previous 4 000 scheme, are now 6 000. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] All of these arrangements have as the basis for calculating the actual financial capacity of each debtor, and are well expected by our Government that it will not be temporary arrangements, as has been the case until recently, but will be arrangements that will be able to comply until the end of all the parties concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, as we understand from all of this, today we are not just called upon to vote for another regulation, we are called upon to vote in favour of the largest programme of economic and social consolidation in the post-war period. Today we are called on to vote for a real programme of national and economic resumption and the right of the missing heroes of the crisis, farmers, traders, professionals, entrepreneurs, wagers, who today after they are in debt, to say that they do not belong to excellence which was well plundered and remain unconscious.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u170	Mrs. Jackrey, you've been over the one minute you've asked for the extra time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u171	To close, Mr President, not as steep as you wish...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u172	How much time do we give? Now, look, we've made a five-minute decision. We have reached you in almost nine minutes, and other speakers have exceeded five minutes. I have no problem if you want to change the speakers' time up, but we will come to discuss the bill by Wednesday night. If you wish...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u173	Mr President, if you hadn't interrupted me, I would have finished. To close, therefore, Alexis Tsipras had to come to continue the fight for social justice. I think that we are all determined here today, this fight to reach it by the end of the route to the complete restoration of social justice, to ensure and guarantee social liberation from the nightmare of the crisis and the memoranda. The hundred and twenty instalments and the other measures included in this bill will be voted on and they will be the ones which, in fact, need society and the citizens. Just because they're fair, they're going to be done by this government. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u174	Mr. Papaliu from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u175	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the areas of labour relations and social security are extremely important both for the social state itself and for social equitable development. This draft law, which follows on from previous legislation, improves and upgrades the rights of workers and complements the process of regaining the work attempted by the SYRIZA Government. In particular, the Greek legal system introduces the justification for redundancies for the first time in the Greek legal order. This is a brake in the abuse of the right to denounce the employment relationship by the employer and changes the labour market map. To date, the undeclared redundancies have been made. Now, on the basis of the requirements of the European social framework, namely the revised European Social Charter, it is laid down that there must be a good reason for dismissal. The employer will not be able to fire the worker because he wants to do so, but there must be a good reason for either his performance or the operational needs of the firm. By the proposed regulation, it is the employer who must prove both to the worker and to the court that there is a good reason for dismissal. The employer shall bear the burden of proof. If this is not the case, redundancies are void and therefore the worker is entitled to late pay and re-entry. In addition, this Legislation establishes compulsory payment through payment service providers of compensation for dismissal and compensation for practical trainees and apprentices, the adoption of consequences for the non-compliance of the type document on parttime and rotating work, the suspension of time-limits for recourse to justice in cases of infringement of the validity of the contract of employment and of non-payment of dismissal if the employee resorts to the ADR. An extremely important regulation which serves the principles of transparency, access to information and confidence is the opportunity for the first time for the worker to have access to the information system 'ERGAN'. The worker will now be able to see whether and under what regime his employer declares him. In other words, if he has declared the job, the agreed conditions such as the level of remuneration and the working time. This provides the worker with an important instrument, so that he actually has control over his work situation himself, to be able to detect infringements and make substantiated complaints, documented and with the employer's booze complaints in the APRC. Conversely, it creates a strong incentive for employers to arbitrate, abuse or substantially weaken workers' rights, based on the fact that they do not know what has been declared by the employer. Another extremely important regulation is the safety and security net set up for workers distributors. In a field that was completely unregulated and was first regulated aspects of the working life of specific workers. The proposed provisions, taking into account the particular and precarious circumstances in which specific workers using a motorcycle or bicycle are employed, regulates matters governing their health and safety. I'm coming to insurance now. In short, it is true that the insurance system at the beginning of 2015 in a state of total collapse, with deficits, despite the twelve horizontal successive reductions in pensions in the governments of New Democracy and PASOK, and at the same time with four hundred thousand unpaid unpaid applications for retirement, has now balanced. This draft law enables one million three thousand debtors to put a final end to the burdens of the past, namely their debts to the insurance system, because they have been found in a real weakness of payment, especially during the period of crisis. The innovative element of the regulation of debts to insurance funds that did not exist in the past is the reduction of the basic debt as well as the reduction of the surcharges. Ladies and gentlemen, it is no accident that the Chief of Officerial Representation focuses on these areas of industrial relations and the insurance system - in order to highlight positions that testify to the direction and content of the New Democracy programme. The positions that are extreme neoliberals, identified or exceeding the policies of the International Monetary Fund. The Chief of Officerial Response described the tenth pension as a'retroactive election allowance'. Although this pension will be permanent, it has explicitly refused to guarantee it. Once again he has spoken outrageously about social benefits, (the unemployment benefit, family allowances, social solidarity income), the basic components of the social state in each European country, calling them the recycling of poverty. Then he said the eighth is over and yesterday - listen, listen! - made a commitment to a seven-day work, in addition to being known to have proposed an insurance policy, as characterised by New Democracy officials, Pinochet. In other words, the New Democracy and its Chief have committed themselves to turning the workers back to the 18th century. Mr Mitsotakis is committed to one thing, one thing guarantees: the levelling-up of the many in the name of totalitarianism and enrichment of the few. However, in the forthcoming elections it will receive an answer from the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u176	Mr. Psychoeuu from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u177	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is the best proof that after August 2018, our country has been in a new era, a new era that I think we will agree - at least in this respect - that it is not a memorial, but a time where there are still injustices, difficulties, problems, which one government has the potential with another mix of policy to plan interventions, aiming at alleviating and strengthening the social majority, of society that has lifted all the burden of the crisis and of the austerity policies. We have already voted to cancel the pension cut, and instead we are giving the thirteenth pension to all pensioners. We have reduced insurance contributions for the vast majority of self-employed and self-employed. We've reinstated collective labour contracts. We increased the minimum wage to 650 euros and abolished the degrading subjugation. We voted for the first expansion budget of 2019 after nine years in the budget adjustment programmes, which gave us the right to make a series of interventions, such as firefighting simulations, the "Help to Home" programme, the payment of retrospectives to special wages, the recruitment to special education, but also to general education and many but small and large steps, on a path that is difficult, but which we are able to open and walk together with society. With the bill under discussion, we are first bringing the long-awaited regulation of a hundred and twenty instalments. In simple terms, one million and three hundred thousand of our fellow citizens will now have the opportunity to regulate their debts and resuscitate after years. The innovative element in the arrangement to the insurance funds - and it did not exist in the previous - is the haircut of the basic debt. Also, through the regulation, there will be a haircut for all by 85%, resulting in the two haircuts giving a 65% reduction of 70% in total, which will be repaid in up to a hundred twenty instalments and with a minimum of 50 euros. Employers' debts, i.e. the debts of enterprises and employers from the employment of their employees, will also be subject to the regulation, mainly aimed at small and medium-sized enterprises. There will be a 100% write-off on the one-off payment and 50% if repayment is made in instalments. We must say here that, apart from this move, the government grants the social security contributions of young people up to twenty-five and up to twenty-nine years old, which will give businesses the right to possibly new recruitments. Also, the reduction in VAT on focusing, food and energy also catches all businesses and households. One very important issue, which is resolved by this bill, and it is something that we, too, have asked the relevant ministries for, is the fact that over eighty thousand pension beneficiaries are being locked up, who, due to their debts to the insurance funds, could not receive this right. These people will be able to retire immediately, and after a small withholding, a set-off made in their pension, they will also be able to repay the rest of the debt. Especially for farmers, it changes the limit of the debt to the most favourable. The debt a farmer can have today is EUR 4,000 to receive the pension, and now EUR 6 000 to those who join this scheme. These are people who were unable to pay in the midst of a crisis for four, five, six years, and while they paid twenty-five and thirty years in the insurance system, they were thrown out and left without a pension. It is also very important to regulate tax debts, both for natural and legal persons, which includes similar positive parameters with certain criteria. But we must say this at this point: how we have led to this. We drove with a domino of the economy that expanded to the majority of small and medium-sized businessmen and free professionals and which, from around 2009 to 2015, hit small and medium-sized enterprises, the free professionals and the entire Greek society. There, therefore, a very large proportion of our fellow citizens were thrown out of insurance because they could not cover the great debts. He flew out of the pension system for the reasons we talked about. He flew out of medical care, social state and insurance information. Of course, besides all that, he lost his job, but he also had the lighthouse to deal with. Let us not forget that, in other words, people who owed even EUR 1 000 or 1,500 were being dragged to police stations in order to be forced there to settle the debts. This, by Law No.4337/15, has now been abolished is up to EUR 100,000 for the use of the self-defense. It also includes provisions on widow's pensions, by which we act fair requests from the beneficiaries, but also the strengthening of the position of workers through the reasoned dismissal, where, if there is no good reason, this is considered void and the employee can have the right to re-entry and take over the pay of the employer. Finally, we must also stand by the other important interventions for the protection framework that goes into the protection framework for distributors, the workers in delivery, which we have also had many deaths at accidents at work in the last few years, and which have been in full void. That's how they get rules for the delibery. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In this context - and I will not be far away, Mr President - we have the announcements or the threats of the President of the New Democracy about the seven-day work, for the past eight hours - where you have to go to the banks, ladies and gentlemen, and the workers who are now going through messages to leave at 17.00 hours compulsory, to see what it means to keep the hours after the inspection of the EMS - for the insurance Pinochet, for the class geographical determination for the Poverty and other areas. Everyone thinks that this is something that escapes you or that this is butter on our bread. Well, it neither escapes you, because it is your programme, nor is it butter on our bread, because we are not happy. These are extremely dangerous, and we cannot take away from what is threatening society. We are thinking of the possibility of you coming back to power - which society has seen you - and of doing the same thing you have done and of dismantling everything that is positive of us. But the Greek people will not allow this. He won't do you a favor. A people who have been through so much, who are swaying, underestimating and threatened by you will give you the answer that they need. We will once again win and move on, ladies and gentlemen, and in larger areas and in the restoration of injustices with our only knowledge of the needs of the many. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u178	The next speaker is Mr Ballis from SYRIZA. Until Mr. Balis is up in Step, let's get in touch. As you know, the sitting will run until midnight. With a calculation we have made of the number of speakers left to speak and with the tolerance of speaking time for everyone, about to count - so that Members will also know - that perhaps we can get to the twenty-third speaker on the list, namely Mr Emmanuelides. Somewhere there, possibly, we can get there. Mr Ballis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u179	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, a debate we are now having, which in theory seemed to be easy and pleasant for all of us because of the arrangements and the many positive measures that it contains, ultimately proves to be difficult for all of us. It is difficult, first of all, for us Members of the House, because what to start in five minutes for the multitude of these new positive measures by the government! But is it particularly difficult for the opposition and its MPs, because how can you dismantle, slander, alter, cancel a bill without voting against it at the end? This is why different options are being set to show that the economy is getting worse, that unemployment is growing, that income is falling, that the economic position of the citizens is deteriorating. The list from "ERGANI", the list from "ELIO", the list from "ATLANTA", is being sent from anywhere else as proof of this economic deterioration. But I know that another list, the shopping list of the simple people's family, this list, a little - a little grows up and is slowly enriched - slowly, but stablely. And from tomorrow, after the vote on these measures, this list will be able to grow further, because the measures we will be voting on concern the needs of millions of our fellow citizens and give them the room to go ahead with their obligations. Let's not pretend we're forgetting it. What are we talking about today? We are talking about debt and debt arrangements for employees, pensioners, professionals who have closed their blocks, unemployed, farmers, in general, for all those who are excluded from the extrajudicial mechanism and who do not have bankruptcy, some millions of our fellow citizens, that is. We are talking about people who, while having the rest of the conditions, cannot yet be retired because they owe their funds and cannot face their debt. We are talking about people who want to settle their tax debts, but who are unable, because the economic crisis has changed their economic level dramatically. We are talking about citizens who have accumulated debts to the municipalities and JHAs and cannot pay back. In short, we are talking about some millions of Greeks who are now trapped in a trap of debts and debts as a result of the crisis and economic policy of the past few years. We are talking about lowering VAT from 24% to 13% on first dose, about foodstuffs and catering services. The housekeeper's basket will be cheaper and the shopping list will be larger. We are talking about a 6% reduction in the VAT on electricity and natural gas in all households and about strengthening family income. Of course, we are talking about the thirteenth pension for pensioners. As much as you are questioning it, colleagues of the counter-population, the vast majority of pensioners are at the lowest levels. That's what's going on, you don't want to. For these tiles, the two and a half million pensioners are a thirteenth pension, not a temporary one-off allowance. It is a permanent pension for pensioners and invalidity pension beneficiaries. It is a pension that will not be seized due to debts and will not be offset, with additional liquidity for thousands of households. The opposition would very much want these arrangements not to be voted on in order to bet politically on the discontent of the prisoners and the helpless, as it had been betted on the failure of the insurance reform, to collapse the system, to destroy the funds, to lose the prospect of the pension. She didn't come out. He also had a bet on reducing 2019 pensions. He asked for it. He fought it. He claimed it. She didn't come out. As she also bets on reducing duty next year. It has been raped and budgeted and the amount it will save for its own programme. That's not what's coming out of her either. This is an irresponsible one, and it is a challenging political settlement that is indifferent to the consequences of broad social strata. Today, she is trying to reverse the image and present as a prejudicial to the government's economic policy and what has been achieved, presenting her own policy as the right one. Only over time, both from the New Democracy and from the PASOK, what has been devastating in the previous decades in the insurance system with the enormous disparities that have arisen has the indelible signature of both the New Democracy and the PASOK. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Remind the so-called active management of the surpluses of the funds to support the stock bubble until the structured bonds enter the Greek banks ex-institutional, foreign investors until the 2012 PSI. Granxe. The losses from the fund reserves were then EUR 13,000,000. At the same time, we had a reduction in revenue in the funds due to the high growth in unemployment. Today's regulation of 20 instalments for debts to the funds is a regulation of enormous social relief, of which 300 000 people can benefit. With the provision that, apart from the haircut of the surcharges, there will also be a cut in the basic debt, about eighty thousand people can retire immediately because of debts that are currently insured. With a lot of time in mind, I would also like to remind you of the remaining arrangements that about three and a half million taxpayers have arrears of tax debts, a total of about 36 million,000,000. The 23,000,000 euros are due to more than three thousand big ones. Everyone owes more than a million euros. This means that they are directly regulated and collected for the funds of EUR 13 million. I'm coming to the other setting. In the municipalities, today, there are dues estimated at EUR 2,700,000. If we also put the debts to the JHA or other legal entities of the municipalities, this debt will amount to EUR 3,000,000,000,000 billion that can be settled and recovered. We are talking about the possibility of entering the funds, the insurance system, the municipal funds directly, which would otherwise be impossible to collect. In fact, we are talking about additional financial space and about the possibility of conducting a policy with even more obvious social significance. We are talking about the possibility of returning even more of the income lost by the crisis and by the policies of counter-population over time to those who deserve it, to the lowest social and income levels in society. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the possibility that is sore for you, that is what you are concerned about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u180	Mrs Maria Theleritis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the draft law we are voting on today, I would like to express our great pleasure and satisfaction at the many positive measures and the extremely important regulations that are being introduced and adopted. These are social security funds, tax administration regulations, towns' debts, pension regulations, the permanent tenth, insurance and pension provisions, and, of course, the strengthening of the protection of workers who are always at the heart of the policies of the SYRIZA Government. As the Minister of Finance, Euclid Tsakalotos, has said, at the press conference with full awareness of the difficulties, without triumphing and relying on a specific policy, as far as the financial area allows, we have achieved the following: we have managed not to reduce pensions. We managed to get out of the program in the summer of 2018. We managed to get out three and a half times on the markets. We have managed in the 2018 and 2019 budget to have the first expansion budget policy for the last ten years. Ladies and gentlemen, we are fully aware of the difficulties of the Greek people and look at the fruits of this particular strategy. With the substantial restructuring of the debt that the government has achieved, it has been ensured that for ten to fifteen years we will have a lower financial needs. What we owe as a political system is these years that are coming to bring positive results in the fight against inequalities, in terms of sustainable and fair growth, with environmental protection, inclusive social goods and in the wealth produced. We are not the ones who triumph. However, the draft law on regulations or - more rightly - the return of growth and the very impressive results on exports and processing show us that the country is returning to normality. And we want citizens, women and men to know that our lasting intention and care is to alleviate problems and to remove inequalities. While we, colleagues and colleagues, are striving to eliminate the inequalities, you, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, as we learn, want seven days and not five days' work. You don't want the eight. You don't want gifts and allowances. You don't want the thirteenth pension. You don't want minimum wage increases. Here too, you will allow me to make a reference to something else that was mentioned in yesterday's interview with the President of the New Democracy and the confession that he is in favour of the proposal for work seven days a week, despite the efforts he made later to revise this statement. And I will not go into detail because the Minister has referred to it. I refer to the seven-day work difference from the seven-day operation, as well as to a number of other clarifications. But you will allow me to make reference to something that proves in the most eloquent way that neoliberal ideology and authoritarian policies and practices are mainly against acquired rights, because they are an integral part of their agenda. Socio-social conservation and revival of racial inequalities are deep and hard. How else can we judge, ladies and gentlemen, what the Chief of Staff said yesterday? What did he say? "Sometimes giving a woman the opportunity to work from her home is good and it's not bad. He may go against traditional eight-hour work, five days a week, but it is good," said Kyriakos Mitsotakis. And you will allow us to remind you here that the position of women is in public life, in social struggles for equality, freedom and social justice. We will not go back to work with the fauna, the piece at home, and everything that involves working conditions and wages. And this matching of women's employment with homes and homes is so obsolete, so outdated, so medieval cut, which historically - as the great philosopher and feminist Sylvia Federica have taught us - is not even worth arguing anymore. But I wonder what the fellow Members of the New Democracy have to say. Do you agree? Do you support the return of women to their home? And I come with two references to this bill. What are the elements in this bill, which we consider to be extremely important? What are the elements that give breath to millions of citizens? These are the arrangements for the hundred and twenty instalments, which are independent of all natural and legal persons. The innovative elements in the planned arrangements are the haircut of the basic debt and the redefinition of the debt, the haircut of the increments by 85% and the manner of redemptions in a hundred twenty instalments with a minimum of 50 euros, the 100% haircut for farmers without recalculation and the repayment in a hundred twenty instalments with 30 euros as a minimum dose. Nor could I refer to satisfying the demands of widows' pensioners. Because this bill contains extremely favourable regulations for widows' pensions, such as the abolition of age limits and an increase in the amount of fifty to seventy. The bill contains extremely important regulations on labour rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u182	Mrs. Thelerite, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u183	I'm done. I would therefore like to finish my introduction by regulating the debts to the municipalities. This is not a random, fragmentary initiative, but it is part of a comprehensive planning of the Ministry of the Interior and aims to tackle the basic problems and diseases in local government. That is why it is obvious that the regulation gives hundreds of thousands of households and businesses the opportunity to regulate their financial obligations. However, the regulation is also very important for the same authorities, because it will increase, significantly strengthen the rate of receipt and the revenue of the municipalities, because we know very well from the last information that the debts of natural and legal persons exceed 3 billion in total. So, ladies and gentlemen, the measures taken by this government are not fragmentary, as the Opposition claims. It is the result of a concrete, comprehensive political plan, which step by step puts the foundations for the normality of the country and at the same time sets the way to its development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u184	Mr. Apostleus has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by asking my colleagues - they are also in the mountains right now - of the Anti-Population Officer. When will you finally realize that our country has entered a positive path? Ladies and gentlemen, this positive course can no longer be called into question by anyone. We already have growth rates for the third consecutive year. We have already taken a very clear course - I would say - recovery. We have cheaper access to markets. Is that insignificant, which is acceptable to many? That is why eight months after leaving the Memorandum it was time for us to proceed with regulations that will lastingly relieve the Greek people, which had suffered the consequences of the crisis over the years. It is the people who have supported our efforts to have budgetary possibilities to the point of implementing such measures. The fact that today we have a liquidity availability of 31 billion, when we literally found empty funds, we owe it to him and we have to give it to him. That is why we are also making a new plan with the surpluses. We ensure with the 5.5 billion-dollar budget that they are reduced by one unit over the next three years, thus linking this budgetary possibility not only to the measures we are proposing but also to the unbundling of our strategic development plan. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for the many, it is time for the households and small businesses, which were borne by the memoranda and could not meet their tax and insurance obligations, to regulate their debts up to a hundred and twenty instalments. They are arrangements that provide for exemptions from additional taxes and increases, from 100% to 10%. It's only arrangements that have income criteria. It is time also for legal persons of a speculative nature, those charged by the memorandum, to regulate their debts from eighteen to thirty instalments. However, it is time for such measures to also meet the needs of restoring normality and those affected. The reduction in VAT on the focus and especially on food comforts the consumer. The granting of the 15th pension, especially for low-pension workers, increases their purchasing capacity, but also significantly stimulates the market climate. Colleagues of the New Democracy and KINAL, our arrangements restore normality in time of the possibility. You cannot speak of election benefits when - I will give you an example - on Friday before the 2015 elections you have decided, without the approval of the European Commission, to grant exceptional state aid of EUR 60 million to farmers. And this amount was paid by a particular bank on Saturday until the polls were opened! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] However, we for farmers, loyal to our commitments, are making arrangements such as a 10% reduction in the taxation of cooperatives and a 10% reduction in the taxable income of cooperative farmers, who not only contribute to further tax relief, but will also be a strong incentive for rural cooperation. The change in the course of agricultural production towards quality, certification, extroversion and high competitiveness goes through cooperation, which only supports such arrangements. And we really want to see from the rural world that they cannot respond to the competitiveness that international markets impose if they do not serve co-operation. So, ladies and gentlemen, the measures that we are voting on are measures aimed at a continuous, uninterrupted and sustainable development, but also measures that bring justice to many people. This is particularly difficult for you to digest.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u186	Mr. Buras has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, beforehand, we have all told you that our President has told us - that we were not the same as you were saying - you were not all here - 'not everything' - and that is, in fact, everything that you have written to everyone, which you would, of course, fold the memorials with a law and an article that today - and I will prove it - you are trying to bring the country to 2014, because that is what you are doing, correct yourself on the basis of 2014 and, indeed, a culpture. While four and a half years have been lost, and the country has been charged with 100 billion with the third unnecessarily inappropriate memorandum and the fourth paragraph, we are the ones who are helping our fellow citizens, even with one euro, voting on it. Do you really think you can make fun of the Greek people again? Isn't it the SYRIZA - ANEL Government that raised the VAT on food and the focus from 13% to 24%? Well, don't you know that? Do you think he doesn't remember it or does the Greek people know it? From this tax, for the Greek people to listen, you have taken from the households about 2 billion euros. And as our rapporteur, Mr Brutsis, has explained, you are now bringing VAT back to 13%, which is almost half as low as 55% - and we are provoking you to vote on the second amendment that we will bring tomorrow for the real reduction of VAT on the whole focus and as we had in 2014 and we call it in our government programme. Because I see that the time locker is going on, I honestly heard the government side - ministers, but also many of you - want to interpret some things as you want. The thirteenth pension would mean 2.4 billion euros. That's how it is. Ask how much the state pays for pensions a month. Now that's a kind of allowance. It is not the thirteenth pension you are trying to make fun of the Greek people. I mean, 800 million - I don't know what your mathematics is, 3 times 8 is 24 - is one third of the pension for all pensioners. Really, the widow's pension you burned and weeped, who cut it? You! And now what are you doing? You're bringing her back. Another thing, that is, that you do and come to 2014. Really, the pensions of the Katorugalou law for young pensioners from 2016 onwards, which are reduced to up to 35%, in relation to old pensions, is a pro-collegiate measure? As far as the abolition of the CSCE is concerned, you do not speak. I have not heard the word CSCE for anyone or even argue somehow. Is the abolition of the CSCE a measure in favour of the poor or the elites, or is it a permanent charge for pensioners? Is the increase in VAT at 24%, really, for the remote islands in Greece, in favour? Many of you, in fact, come from very mountainous areas, which is very cold and this year it was very cold. By 70% the amount decreased, compared to 2014, for heating oil. And because I see - it is a consequence, of course - that day after day you lose your temper for your coming great defeat on May 26th, you are trying to falsify and interpret the words of our President Kyriakos Mitsotakis in your own way. In fact, I heard a few words from Mr Barkas that he meant other things. I mean, he knows, with a psychic. The President of the New Democracy clearly referred to the seven-day operation of the "PAPASTRATO" company, which happens to be a very large enterprise in my particular constituency, in West Attica, and not in the workers' seven-day work. It's over and out. In fact, two weeks ago, Mr. Mitsotakis visited the company and, as he always does, he started talking to the workers and then to the company. In fact, in this operation in August 2017, Mr. Tsipras went after March, when Mrs. Ahtsoglou, her Ministry, that is to say, welcomed the seven-day operation of the operation. That's the reality. The undergrounds of Maximos, of course, accuse Mr Mitsotakis of an operational contract approved by Mrs Ahtsoglou's Ministry, which provided for the seven-day operation rather than the seven-day work. In fact, speaking - you, if you like - workers who work there less hours are paid on average more money than their colleagues in the same industry. Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the body of the bill for the hundreds of twenty instalments - I shall end, Mr President - we shall vote for it, when you refused, as you refused everything, to vote on the 100 instalments of our own in the government of Samaras with your policy and despite the fact that you have ejected the debts of our fellow citizens, in taxes and insurance funds from EUR 75 billion to EUR 140 billion. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Dear colleagues of the SYRIZA and the willing men - because you are not alone, you have the ANELs, now you have the willing ones - land in reality. You've lost your temper as close as May 26th. The world's never been deceived again. He has made his decisions and on May 26th he will show the way for the great change with the great victory of the New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u188	Ms. Big Economics from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the bill we forgot about the mother's holiday yesterday. So I take the opportunity to wish all the mothers of the world many years. It's the most important of all. And having this in mind, today I thought this bill was a child coming to the world. Today it is nine months from the day we came out of the memorandum. From 21 August to 14 May, nine months shall be completed. So he's a kid who comes to bring hope and joy to our homeland and we need to applaud it, no matter how much you don't like it, gentlemen of the counterpopulation. This bill, in fact, is what the Greek people expected after the ten years of crisis. I would like to say to the rapporteur for Officerial Representation that the burden has been lifted by the people and let us not forget where this burden came from, from the governments forty years of PASOK, New Democracy, the change of New Democracy - PASOK, PASOK and New Democracy. You want, you don't want, that's where the burden came from and not from the SYRIZA government of four years. He did all he could to get the weight off his back. I would like to say that the eighth hour does not like Mr Mitsotakis, he wants to apply the twelfth hour. Yeah, let's do the 12-hour thing. And with regard to the seven-day period, you may not, Mr. Rapporteur of the New Democracy, have been working, because I would like to remind you that the EOT charged a subscription, especially at the tourist shops since 1980 - perhaps even more ahead - for the seven-day, seven-day operation. You took an EOT signal, put it in front of your plate, and you could work seven days a week, and for twenty-four hours, it's enough that you were a subscriber to EOT, get the signal, get the certification, and when they came to you for control, you showed that signal. Of course, in the Ministry of Labour you were showing your list, putting overtime on your staff and shifts. This was very common, it is not new, but you might not have been entrepreneurial in this, because usually the New Democracy MPs were professional MPs, they had no more qualifications. It was since 1974 MPs, professional MPs - very nice - and the Parliament of the Greeks is based! We're moving forward. I would like to talk about the amendments, which are very important, particularly the amendment on the tenth pension. The third pension is important and permanent, permanent. It doesn't exist more permanently. It's not a mirror, as you want to present it, it's permanent, it's more permanent it can't be done. I would like to stress this. As far as the regulation is concerned, I would like to point out that when one made a regulation to his insurance institution, if he made a set of three instalments, this was not only covered by medical care but also by hospitals. And if he went to a hospital and a stewardship, it's not enough he didn't have to pay, but you were sending him the hospital treatment to taxi and then taxi was chasing him and putting him in jail. Only SYRIZA has come to abolish debts to taxi from hospitality from insurance funds. Secondly, it also enabled uninsured or those who owed insurance contributions to be able to have hospital treatment, regardless of whether they had debts to their funds. The most important debt for the state, insurance, health and education is free to all. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] With regard to widow's pensions, it is a piece of legislation imposed on us by the troika and the institutions which you have brought. If you had implemented these, which in the first and second Memorandum you did not, or at least, apply one third of what we were imposed on us, we would not have proceeded with the third Memorandum. Yes, you didn't even apply one-third! It is what Mr Chrysohoidis had the courage to say: 'I have signed it, but I have not read it'. At least he's the one who took his hat off, because he said it, "I signed it, but I didn't read it." You read it, but you did not apply one third of those you signed on 8 May 2010. Don't move our finger! You are responsible because you have not implemented anything. You hid it under the rug, so you wouldn't lose your "gunheads"! Now, now, don't move your finger. And what SYRIZA accomplished couldn't even make it in your sleep. I'm a little impulsive - I'm sorry to speak loudly - and emotionally, so I connected Mother's Day to this day. I would like to finish - because I do not have time to say that at least VAT on focusing and on energy, which is over-reduced - reaches 6% both electricity and electricity and natural gas - is something that will help households with all means. Furthermore, the most important thing with the amendment is the return from the pharmaceutical companies, which you supposedly forgot that pharmaceutical companies had to go back to the public sector since 2006, in 2008, this money, the well-known rebate, amounting to about EUR 250 million. But anyway, it's late than never will be returned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u190	Mrs Iglezi has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, following the vote of confidence in the government, once again within the last four years, following the announcement of the positive measures by the Prime Minister and their legislature by tabling today's amendments, following the restructuring of the debt and the exit of the country from the Memorandums in August 2018, after a series of actions in all these four years that govern the country, SYRIZA has supported a large part of our citizens, following hard work with a plan and documentation, which led to the non-cutting of pensions, which led to the exit of the markets, after all of this, we are now coming to decide on a bill that clearly shows that, yes, the economy is going better and that improvement can be fruited by the world, which over the years has tried to pass the economic crisis, without losing its dignity, the world that is cutting and pressured financially, the one that cannot, but also the one who is trying to pay off its obligations, its self-employed people, its young people, its young people, its young people. So the reality comes, after the difficult 2015, to justify us, because we can now formulate policy and implement it confidently. Yes, we can apply policy for many. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is not an election bonus. Both the positive measures announced by the Prime Minister and the arrangements of this bill are a clear policy on the part of SYRIZA. They are a clear return to normality, but to a normality, which sees and relieves the social majority, not the markets and the few. This bill mainly regulates debts to social security institutions, tax and local government bodies. It's a bill that, not only does the world see it positively, but it's waiting a long way ahead. Nevertheless, even from the debate held in the committees, the only thing that is sceptical to him is the opposition, but that is no longer a surprise to us, ladies and gentlemen, especially after yesterday's announcements of Mr Mitsotakis, for his vision, for the workers of the future, a vision of the implementation of working relations between the globe. Ladies and gentlemen, the arrangements that we are discussing relate to a million three hundred thousand debtors to the insurance funds. For the first time, a recalculation of the debt is foreseen on the basis of the debtor's choice. It is a regulation which facilitates more than a million fellow citizens of our debtors whose debt will be reduced by 65%. For the first time, we are tired of the basic debt, we are tired of capital. There are also 85% increments. Tens of thousands of people insured, who have fulfilled retirement conditions and because of their debts are locked in and cannot retire, are now able to retire and with a small withholding to pay their debt. The regulation of a hundred and twenty instalments for farmers has a minimum of 30 euros, and companies are also in charge of employers' debts, with a minimum of 50 euros. A system for regulating debts to the first degree TAs and their legal persons is introduced. It is possible for natural and legal persons to meet their long-term financial obligations in such a way as to restore normality in their financial planning and allow them to regain payment of their debts subsequently. This is something that the public and the municipalities expect to do. The injustice in widow's pensions is due and favourable changes are taking place which strengthen the status of survivors. We are hierarchy of work issues and we are institutionally and organisationally strengthening the control mechanisms, so as to ensure the practical application of the existing rules, preventing infringements and encouraging compliance. We restore the right of workers to adequate compensation or other appropriate redress, in the event of dismissal without good reason. We safeguard the safety and health of workers in the distribution and transport of products and articles. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We ensure that workers are promptly informed of the essential elements of their work relationship and the possibility of claiming in the event of their rights being violated. Ladies and gentlemen, as much as you are trying to avoid it, it is time for you to expose your programme and your positions on insurance, work, social policy and the economy to the Greek people. We do not hide the different priorities that we have for the future of the Greek people. The doctrine of extreme neoliberalism, austerity and flirt with the extreme right is no longer tolerated, not only within the country, but also in Europe. The country's democratic and progressive way out has already begun and left you behind. We will continue, as always, over the next period, together with the many to discuss politically, to bring measures for the benefit of the social majority, to go to the squares and streets and to discuss with our fellow citizens about their needs for the next day. You can continue to look from the keyhole, make politics with the Fascist novels, turn the Step of the House into a wall of facebook. But true life is out there, in the workplace, in the places of work, in the places of education, in the homes of the young people, in the homes of the retired, in the squares and in the streets. True life will answer the next Sunday and will answer that he is here, with the Greece of many, with SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u192	Next speaker, Mrs Lebanese from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr President. Madam and Minister, ladies and gentlemen, life is full of inequality, modern society is full of inequality. These inequality don't make the world more beautiful. But they make politically more interesting, democracy more useful, participation valuable. Today we are discussing one of the many initiatives of the last few months of the SYRIZA government, the possibility, to those in charge of tax, to insurance funds and municipalities, finally to regulate their debts in a hundred and twenty instalments. Legislation of this possibility will save millions of people from bankruptcy, save thousands of assets. There will be no objections to it, despite the structure of the arguments which will be heard in the context of an attempt to express opposition. Today's bill is not a simple regulation, it is not a simple facilitation. It is a political act of social justice. It is a sign of how today's majority wants to move, as a country and as a rule of law. The ideological differences between the parties are neither secondary nor can they have the same effect, following other routes. In our view, work is right, protected as a right and must result in a decent living of the worker and his family. In our perception, he's also the small freelance professional, who's struggling to make a cut. In the years of the memoranda many small and medium-sized enterprises have closed down. For the enthusiasts of liberalism, the armies of unemployed people created must be treated as a supply of competitiveness, as the need for man to live in his family will make him accept more easily lower wages, less rights, and even work seven days a week, as the Chief of Officership has said, and we have heard it. If these unemployed also have accumulated debts, then they will be easier to accept working on even worse terms. The proposal to regulate debts in a hundred and twenty instalments will bring other results to both public finances and family budgets. Natural persons and businesses will be able to repay their debts, they will be able to become viable companies again. The current government, in a series of measures it has voted on, achieves what, for the conservative governments of yesterday, are benefits, is in short unnecessarily inappropriate measures. The wages increase, the State's income rises and, at the same time, social structures, the social state, support for the weaker. The already surplus insurance funds have more revenues, when the vast majority of the insured pay smaller contributions. The state's resources are constantly growing, although the government employs staff, opens up structures and covers every year with more money the needs for education, health and social policy. Sounds strange. But it's not. SYRIZA's government has succeeded, reinstated the economy, sacrificing public finances. Now that the economy is stabilised, now that society is breathing, we are putting the conditions of sustainability, not only in numbers, but also in people. We solve problems of decades and problems arising from the neoliberal obsessions of the memoranda. We insist that we strengthen labour rights, that we lay rules against arbitrary practices, that we set the conditions for stability and progress in the future for all. Our aim is collective prosperity, self-sufficiency, the real empowerment of Greek society, through advancement and education. Correction of legislation is about restoring an injustice in respect of widow's pensions. Those who had the misfortune, then, to lose their man in previous years, lost the right to receive a widow’s pension because of the failure to complete five years as planned. I would ask the Ministry to take care of this. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I just need a minute, Mr President. I come to the amendments. The Ministry of Finance's amendment reduces VAT, from 24% to 13% on the focus and, respectively, on food and 6% on energy. It's a great breath for the households and breath for the real economy. The amendment by the Ministry of Culture responds to the need to protect our cultural heritage. The Ministry of Health's amendment comes to order in a naughty three years from 2006 to 2008 and relates to percentage returns from pharmaceutical companies to public insurance. The climate is changing and this is evident both in Parliament and in society. Greece, thanks to the government of SYRIZA, is heading to better times, with greater confidence, with more power, with optimism. The big difference is that we gradually build a state of serious, fair and humanity, a state that protects and is present to defend the weakest, a state that lays rules and does not wait for the self-regulation of markets, where the only law is the law of the mighty. The autumn elections will confirm and reward this effort. Today's bill, the previous bill and what they will follow, will give a more complete picture of the reality, which is built and which concerns us all. The interests of many with the interests of the elites in the autumn will be discussed in the polls of the autumn. And there, in the real polls, every vote has the same power either you have armies of instruments and millions in the bank or you have nothing but dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u194	Mr Ursouzidis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u195	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our country is undeniably experiencing the worst crisis in a time of peace. In this environment, some measures of optimism are coming, measures that regulate people's lives, which have been overthrown over the last ten years. Of course, from tomorrow, after the adoption of the measures, our country will not sail to a sea of happiness, but it is a breath of oxygen, which has been so missing in recent years. It is the result of the work of the honest Greeks, who also contributed the government, who respected the battle of Greek citizens. So, without celebrating, today we are in a position to say that the freelance professional, who has paid a heavy price in recent years, has been able to regain access to insurance and to tax information in order to continue his work unintentionally, which will obviously also be won by the Greek public. The interest of citizens is also the public interest. That's what's always going on together. But what led to the rocks in May 2010 and the bankruptcy of our country? Undoubtedly, the inadequacy, dishonesty, irresponsibility and ignorance of the danger that all the previous managers of power had had to an exaggerate degree, but also the financial establishment, the elite of truth and not the excellence that imposed his strategy, exerting influence on the civilian staff, who willingly responded. This has been the sad reality in our country for many decades. The result wasn't long enough to come. They were completely audited by the media, until they abolished and delivered citizens' information to party friends and best farmers, on the so-called private initiative, which was not only private. On the contrary, it proved to be the definition, the epitome of state-owned reality and plundering of public money. The citizens now understand very well how indifferent, how intertwined, how inadequate the political establishment was, achieving it impossible. It did not fail any country, it bankrupt Greece of the unique culture, of excellent tourism, of the excellent primary sector, of the internationally recognised human resources. Warm congratulations! The announcement of relief measures by the Prime Minister last autumn was the result of the hard and painful effort of the Greek people. Personally, I thank them very much for that, and of course, it is something that the citizens absolutely need. The implementation of the non-cutting commitment to pensions came precisely as a result of firm commitment to objectives with absolute respect for the burden on taxpayers. The citizens at last felt that a government respects the reasonable requirement of sound and honest management, to reduce the costs and eliminate the economic scandals that have plundered and eventually went bankrupt our country. Those who now have to feel relief are the ones who paid the highest price. In order to regulate the debts to the social security institutions, I have nothing to say, as everything has been said. I just want to say congratulations to the Ministry. It's too good to be real. They all enter indiscriminately, with a brave cut in the increases of up to 85%, 100% for farmers and a basic debt of 65%. In other words, the citizen who owes 10,000 euros goes down to 3,500 euros, and when the surcharges are 10,000 euros they go down to 1,500 euros and are adjusted according to income in a hundred or twenty or even fewer instalments. The corresponding bill on debt regulation to the tax administration is a positive measure, but I cannot compare it with the Ministry of Labour's bill. Obviously it has scope for improvement. The discharge of 10% with the entry into 20 instalments should be at the level of the other bill. Otherwise, it creates the conditions for many citizens to breathe, as I said at the outset. I now come to the thirteenth pension. I read: ‘To beneficiaries of the main old age, disability or death pension shall be granted from 2019 and for each following year the thirteenth pension’. Didn't you read that? It is the principle of the relevant article on which it is granted. So we're talking about a permanent measure. One possibility is that it will not be permanent, that the hollows of the country's economy return. Then, of course, and the borrowings will start again, there will not be a third pension, but I am afraid of much less. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And because you referred to finances, I would like to say that the New Democracy and PASOK with EUR 9.5 billion in 2012 have a record of the Greek public's obligations to private individuals. Today is 1.6 billion euros due to private individuals. And because you are talking about overtaxation, that we excessively taxed the world, in 2015 we did vote for a memorandum that we did not believe and had the courage from this Step forward to admit it. But it was the step backwards in order to get here when we arrived today and not to take the country into adventures and uncharted waters. After all, the sensible and sensible citizens have told us: Pull the rope, but you will not cut it. However, I come to the farmers' compensation. So you said that we are taxing. You also taxed the air that the citizen breathed. Where has Community compensation and aid been again heard from the first euro to be taxed? Compensation by the European Union and the ELGA is considered to be profits. You made the following originality: the impairment of the damage made it a profit and you taxed the citizens. This has been the case since 2015. Please, this is the document that confirms what I am saying. [[At this point, the Member, George Ursouzidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In conclusion, I would like to say that the citizens obviously have a great question: how is this government possible in an environment that everyone confesss to being unprecedented for the country, of deep economic recession, managed to re-establish the health system, managed to give the 15th pension where it should be 100% and where it should not have given much less? It has also managed to give the ESS to people who, as New Democracy colleague rightly said, are subject to a restriction on their pensions, free medicines, access to health in two and a half million uninsured citizens and much more, but I do not want to tire you with them. I would just say that I have in my hands the European audit conference report where only three projects, on the E65 motorway, on the Morea and Olympia - I read myself on page 35 - 'in addition, the public sector partner, namely the Greek taxpayer, has been charged with an additional cost of EUR 1.2 billion'. And in order for the Greek taxpayer to understand what 1,2 billion euros is, it is twenty-two hospitals like the one we build in Komotini with the kind donation of the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation - these have become villas in Syros, Mykonos, and I do not know where else - and 12 years of guaranteed the 100 million euro pillow for the protection of the first home, or just a metro like Thessaloniki, and they have an abundance of 200 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u196	Mr. Pratsol has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, Mr Minister, today we are following the struggling effort of the Vice-Presidents to be able to feel the new reality. It is a reality for them that looks like a bad dream for the Greek people, but it is a tangible proof that Greece has finally returned, at last, page, Greece left behind the eight years of crisis and austerity, these eight years that were the consequence of the bankruptcy that led to them by these forces, which are now swinging the finger on many issues. Today we are discussing a bill which contains only positive measures, and I would say that it is one of the best bills we have passed in this House, but also in the last ten years. It is the one hundred and twenty-dollar arrangement that comes to give breath, but hope again, to a million three hundred thousand people, while in addition to natural persons, it also concerns businesses, as well as debts to OTA I grade 1. The most important, however, but also an innovative element of this bill is the haircut of the basic debt and the surcharges. Today in the tax office four hundred thousand debtors owe 104.4 billion euros and a million five hundred and fifty thousand debtors owe 38.2 billion euros to the insurance funds. In 2015, we received a country and an insurance system in full anarchy, a country in a deep economic and social crisis, a country of total collapse and an insurance system overdebted, with a deficit of over 1.1 billion, with twelve horizontal successive pension cuts and four hundred thousand outstanding pension applications. In 2016, the Government carried out a major insurance reform and since 2017, the insured pay on the basis of their actual income, with a significant reduction in the contributions for a large part of the free professionals, from around EUR 440 to EUR 167. In 2018 we managed to get the country out of the memorials, through many difficulties, negotiations, compromises, always having as the main aim of overcoming the crisis, and at the moment we can talk about economic recovery, restoring injustices and returning to normality. So it is time to regain lost ground and lost time, not by words, but by works. That is why we are here today to present new positive measures following the application of the basic principles of collective bargaining, the increase in minimum wages, the abolition of the shameful and racist subsistence, the protection of first residence, the reduction of insurance contributions to freelance professionals, the housing allowance, the cover of two and a half million of our uninsured fellow citizens. All of this has a unique sign, the protection of the many, those who lifted the burdens of the crisis. All of these are measures aimed at the budget area and not at loaning for our future, which has been done to a great extent, I would say, in the past. In addition, the amendments which have been tabled are laid down as a permanent measure and not as an electoral allowance, as the Opposition likes to say, the thirteenth pension and reduced VAT returns to the focal items to 13% and 6% of energy, such as PPC and natural gas. Faced with all these positive measures, New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis, what do they propose? To abolish the eighth hour as outdated, by a resolution of the European Parliament adopted by the MEPs of the New Democracy. The additional aid to pensioners, such as the thirteenth pension, calls them populism and does not guarantee their continuity, yesterday's declaration. It calls for the seven-day work to be implemented, returning to industrial relations in the 18th century. And, of course, it doesn't mean the seven-day operation, which goes on anyway, especially for the continuous-fired companies. It calls for collective agreements not to apply, but business, knowing well that the employees of an enterprise are more vulnerable to the entrepreneurship. It calls for recruitment to be reintroduced to 5 to 1 from the 1 to 1 that we have, of course, achieved with the aim of transferring public sector services to the private sector. All this would really be envy by both BSE and the IMF and create Greece of a few. The people, the workers, the pensioners must judge and decide in the next elections above all for the safety of their future. The provisions of the Natural Persons Act, i.e. employees, pensioners, entrepreneurs, former entrepreneurs, income earners, stipulate that the arrangement relates to debts born up to 31/12-18 and is proportionate to the citizens' tax capacity. Here I would like to add that I consider that there is a possibility of covering up to EUR 20,000 in tax, which the extrajudicial compromise does not cover, and we should see it. This bill is a relief for thousands of Greeks and enables many fellow citizens finally to receive a pension, people who, although they had fulfilled the other conditions for retirement, could not get to the pension because of debts. At this point I would also like to refer to the level of debts to TAIs arising from fees, taxes, rights and contributions which concern not only the municipalities, but also the legal persons of the TAA. Initially, the amount of outstanding debts to TAIs amounts to 2.7 billion and, together with legal persons, is close to 3 billion. It is therefore easily understood that the provision of facilities to the public in order to repay their financial outstandings through this arrangement will lead to a significant revenue influx in order to restore normality in their financial planning. With this draft law, the government has once again shown that it is implementing its commitments to return to development, a development that concerns people of hardship, the people who have lifted the burden of the crisis, it is the one who has supported us and it is the one that we are trying and want to be better. Our goal is always to restore our dignity and strength, values for which we are always, as Greeks, proud. That is why this proud people will give a strong answer on May 26th and much more in the October national elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u198	Mrs. George Georgia has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u199	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again we are discussing and voting on a bill indicative of SYRIZA's policy, which aims to remove the burdens of those who in recent years have borne the results of the destructive policies of the governments of New Democracy and China. Once again, therefore, a series of interventions are introduced which will have an impact on insured, workers, pensioners and vulnerable groups. Ladies and gentlemen, we are coming to rectify injustices with a number of measures to regulate tax, insurance funds and municipalities, with provisions to strengthen the protection of workers' rights, by strengthening the value and dignity of work and by introducing new tools. It also includes provisions on the housing allowance, the exceptional financial assistance paid to families of persons who have lost their lives from the earthquake or other natural phenomena, on the preferential benefits paid by the OPCW, and the possibility of an extension to all disabled persons whose opinion has expired and whose examination by the CEPR is delayed without their own fault. Of course, it also includes the thirteenth pension, which you do not want. However, we consider it necessary, as we consider it necessary, and the fourteenth or thirteenth wages, for which I am sure as soon as the budgets of that country allow it, this government will do so. Because we, gentlemen of the New Democracy and of KINAL, consider it necessary to have a social state, a strong social state, we consider it necessary to build the Greece of many. Where you propose redundancies, we fight for jobs. Where you propose abolition of allowances, we vote for their adoption. When you, by your Chief’s mouth, wish a seven - day job, we shield the five - day one. When you propose to abolish the eighth, we are looking to ensure it. Where you want to level the collective agreements and the wages of workers, we are laying down provisions to protect workers' rights. Where you just want your Chief to perform a role of slave supervisor, we oppose the Prime Minister, with vision and aim of the wellbeing of the many. All this effort to make sure we have the world next to us. Because people know and can't forget who's come up with their money and their labors all these years, who's been involved in corruption and financial scandals. People remember! He remembers that we didn't fool him, that we didn't fool him. He recalls that this government and its Prime Minister kept all their promises and the above. He recalls that what we have given him, we fulfilled them one by one, because he experiences the results and the difference of our own policies. He lives what's fair and acted. He understands that Greece has regained the respect and dignity, the trust of its partners and international interlocutors. He understands that we are now drawing up our own autonomous course, that we have regained our dignity, our credibility. It understands the reforms that have taken place over all these years and for the first time after about ten years of crisis, sees and lives on positive measures, measures positive for the pocket of many, measures contributing to the consolidation of social justice, the defence of individual freedoms, the safeguarding of social rights, the common good and the interests of many, in order to clearly lay the foundations for a more social state, a rule of law, and to create a blurred front to the powers of the extreme right, conservativeism, nationalism and intolerance, against the neoliberal model of governance and lasting austerity that Mr Mitsotakis wants to apply and impose, by crushing the middle class and poor layers of Greeks. The people know that the old political establishment does not just claim political change. It condemns its re-establishment, in order to ensure the interests of the few, the capital, the privileged, to return to working ages, to dismiss all our social and labour rights. He knows, on the contrary, that with us the country and the economy are on a clear recovery course for all. And now he is happy to welcome the measures: ensuring a third pension, subsidising young workers, reducing the employer's contribution, reducing the VAT on focus and energy, reducing the solidarity levy, reducing the VAT rate from 13% to 11% on goods and services, tax reductions for the inhabitants of our islands, reducing the cooperative tax to 10%, deducting from the taxable income on housing loans. There are so many measures in favour of the Greeks that it is not enough time to list them! How much more you want to understand that only we are here from the people and people, for many, for all, and not for the few and the great economic interests you serve and serve! And move on! On this path I believe we will have many of our companions, because quite simply, Mr Mitsotakis, the child from Peristeri, from Piraeus, from Keracini, from the western districts of the whole country, the child from the village, from the island, from the country, from the countryside and from every neighbourhood of Greece that is not part of the elite, will not become a cooler and a partition that you want. He's going to study, Mr. Mitsotakis! If he wishes, he will study, perhaps not in Columbia, but certainly in the Greek public free university that we care to operate and upgrade. What he wants to study will study and be treated equally, like all the children who live in that country, because we will ensure them that, because we do not recognize and create second-rate and second-class citizens! All equals, all worthy, all able to define their destiny, their fate, the fate they deserve! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u200	The last speaker has the floor for tonight, Mr. George Chogas, from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr President. After Mrs Genia's oyster, the next speaker, i.e. I, will find them a little difficult. But it doesn't matter. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is the vindication of the government and our people who believed in the call for history. It is perhaps the best result of the hard work of the government, which, thanks to the rational debt management, manages today to bring relief measures for Greek citizens, who have made past mistakes, mistakes by the previous governments whose political costs are borne by the SYRIZA Government and by this administration, we can now legislate on measures that are capable of bringing our fellow citizens out of the economic and social deadlock that have been affected in the years of the memorandum. The government took over a state of collapse, a state of bleeding financially, a state of crisis in economic and institutional terms and managed, within just four and a half years, to change the country's economic data for the best. He managed to open roads to growth and prosperity. Our commitment to the Greek people to exit the crisis is gained every day by flesh and bone and is now a reality, which no one can question. Even the hardest critic cannot deny that Greece is going to a development path. No one can recognize that the government received a country that was boasting in debt and inconvenience, boasting in the gutter of past scandals. But he managed to stand up and led the country out of memorial and cruel austerity. Only a left-wing government could achieve this, because at the centre of the left there is the citizen and the interest of the citizen. Only a left government can fight for a fair society and for the well-being of the many and not the few. However, it cannot be tolerated that we have managed to reduce unemployment from 28% to 18%, that we have moved on to increasing the minimum wage, that we have secured a minimum income for the economically weaker, that we have pressed undeclared work, that we have saved our insurance system and that we have been consistent with the repayment of our debts. All this requires political consistency, and the government in deeds, and not in words, has shown that it is consistent and will continue to be consistent with the people who trusted it. Equality, equality, social justice, the fight against social inequalities, the right to work, the protection of the weak, the social and economic reintegration, which is why we have been fighting for four years. These authorities are at the heart of SYRIZA's government policy. Being convinced of our handling, we managed to drive the country out of the memorials and to discuss today relief measures, which are expected to benefit about a million thousands of our fellow citizens, who will have the opportunity to get rid of the burdens of the past and to be able to reintegrate into the country's social and economic life, to make a new start from another basis, to come out of the end that led to the policies of the New Democracy and PASOK. The draft law introduces measures which will serve to promote the insurer reintegration of a large proportion of citizens by regulating social security contributions due in the past up to a hundred and twenty-dollar years. As regards the tax liability arrangement, all outstanding liabilities born until 31 December 2018 are to be included. The debts shall be governed by a one-off interest relief and late payment increases which shall be borne by them at the date of the claim for payment. For natural persons, the instalments can reach one hundred and twenty, for legal persons up to eighteen for regular debts such as income tax, HOPIA, etc. and up to thirty instalments for extraordinary debts, while for legal persons of a non-profit character, the dose maximisation is a hundred and twenty. It is important that taxpayers with an income of up to EUR 10 000, who can automatically enter the regulation. For those with higher incomes, the maximum number of doses is formed according to the application of progressive rates of annual repayment capacity starting from 4% for incomes of EUR 10,000 to EUR 15 000 and reaching 25% for incomes of over 100,000. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. As regards the dues to the insurance funds, it is possible to make arrangements at the request of the debtor of the total debt to social security institutions created up to 31 December 2018 with any incremental surcharges, additional fees. In addition, 85% is deducted from any kind of surcharges, additional debts and interest due to non-preferential payments, and the former OGA members and the employees are paid a 100% discount. With the planned arrangements for the insurance contributions due, a large category of citizens who, despite the fact that they fulfil the conditions for retirement, cannot receive a pension because they have a debt to their funds. Now with integration into the regulation and the haircut of the basic debt, about eighty thousand people insured will be able to receive their pension by defeating the nightmare of their poverty and spending the ravage range she was struggling with. The third chapter of the draft law provides the possibility of adjusting debts to both the municipalities and their legal persons, who have been established or will be satisfied by the deadline laid down, at the request of the debtor. Also to the particularly positive measures introduced by this bill, the abolition of the age restriction imposed on the surviving spouse in order to receive a pension on the basis of death is counted. Since then pensions due to the death of a pensioner or an insured person are paid to survivors irrespective of their age, even after three years. This corrects a legislative failure which has put the widows under the age of fifty-five years in an economic stalemate, while improving the rate of widow's pension from 50% to 70% of the main. In conclusion, we must say that a number of measures are introduced to relieve the Greek citizen, the Greek taxpayer, the pensioner, the free worker. The failures of the past are corrected and social injustices are restored to the detriment of our fellow citizens, who have been found in a difficult economic and social position. The government stands beside the Greek citizen, a brother and a guarantor of his interests, a guarantor of his individual and social dignity. It is more than ever clear that the country is on the rise, and this is reflected in the draft legislation being passed. Now after leaving the memorials, after proper financial management, after recovering confidence in the markets, the country raises its head and looks forward, with power and determination and with greater certainty than ever before. Ladies and gentlemen, the current nightmare of the New Democracy, its obligation to vote on the measures it has taken, the measures it has slandered, will continuously support the reminiscent of its current political fiasco. Measures considered by Mitsotakis to be populism and Vebber will be voted for by the MPs of the New Democracy, who remarkably say they will vote, bend the head. It is a tragic evening - and I shall end, Mr President - defeat for the New Democracy, a night which condemns it to the conscience of the people, since until yesterday it rejected and called into question the measures and this evening it votes without accompanying them with at least one apology or even a slight redemption. The policy which the New Democracy obviously does not have is a virtue and bold one. The government implements the announcements, respects its people and itself, renewing hope for tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u202	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-13-S2-commons.u203	With the agreement of the House at 23.58' the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 14 May 2019 at 11.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work, continuation of the debate and vote of the draft law of the Ministries of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, "Adjustment of debts to Social Security Bodies, Tax Administration and O.T.A. (a) Degree, pension arrangements and other insurance and pension provisions, strengthening of the protection of workers and other provisions.’
