ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval of 6-8-2019, the minutes of its 1st session of Tuesday, 6 August 2019, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law of the Minister of State: ‘Executive State: Organisation, operation and transparency of the Government, Governmental Institutions and Central Public Administration’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: ‘Consolidation of the Ministry of Interior, provisions on digital governance and other urgent matters’. Before entering the debate on the bill, I would like to inform the House that there have been two objections to anti-constitutionalism. With the first, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group objects to anti-constitutionality of Articles 1, 2, 3, 64 and 101 of this draft law: "Consolidation of the Ministry of Interior, provisions on digital governance and other urgent issues". It is signed by the Parliamentary Representative, Mr Janakopoulos. Mr President, on behalf of the Change Movement we object to the unconstitutionality of Articles 2, 3 and 12 of this draft law. Signature, Andreas Loverdes. In accordance with paragraph 2 of Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure - I suppose you would like to propose this debate, and not some other time until the vote - they have the right to speak, because there are two objections, the sayings, the opposite, the Presidents of the parliamentary groups or the parliamentary representatives, and on behalf of the government there will be one of the ministers in the chairs, each for five minutes of the hour. So we begin with the parliamentary order and order with Mr Janakopoulos. Mr. Janakopoulos, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say in advance that the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and SYRIZA in general are not in favour of biding on constitutional issues. In any event, the final word on issues relating to the constitutionality or unconstitutionality of the acts of the administration is known to the Greek courts. In any case, however, I think that the cases and the issues that we are discussing today are extremely important, and in our opinion the violations of the Constitution have been exaggerated, they have been pointed out throughout the discussions in the committees, and that is why we consider it necessary to submit the objection of unconstitutionality so that the necessary debate can be held in plenary. In relation to the first part of the bill, which, as you know, concerns the ex-post reform of the democratic section of "KLITHENH", we have tabled a statement of non-constitutionality in relation to Article 1 of the draft law setting out the conditions for the association of exceptions in municipal and regional councils in relation to Article 2 which regulates the conditions for the setting up of economic committees and quality of life committees and Article 3, which transfers responsibilities to the Economic Commission and the Quality of Life Committee on a case-by-case basis, in our opinion in breach of the Constitution. I want to say a few words about these issues. The main argument here and to those who have previously, during the committee debate, says that all these issues have been addressed by the Supreme Administrative Court, the Council of State, and it has given final solutions, must be answered that the Supreme Court has never been called upon to judge on a reform which, in fact, had come to overthrow the basic law on the basis of which the elections were held. And here I think that this is the central constitutional, if you like, argument that falls within the real facts and goes into the current case with the specific constitutional provisions, which are being violated. So the main reason for unconstitutionalism of the bill is not that the government chooses alpha instead of the beta way to organize the structures of self-government. This is one of the possibilities which each government has and for which it is judged politically every time. The Council of State has indeed recognised this by means of specific decisions. This is not what we're dealing with here. We're dealing with something else. We are concerned that while the municipal councils have been voted on by the Greek people, even before their formation comes the government to transform the conditions for the formation of municipal councils and to blackmail majorities for which the Greek people have not given their mandate. This is a new constitutional situation, which the courts should judge. So, in our view, Articles 1, 2 and 3 violate fundamental principles and articles of the Greek Constitution. In particular, the value of man is violated, the democratic principle is violated, and of course the principle of proportionality, as enshrined in Article 25 of the Constitution, as the way in which the government chooses to resolve the various issues which, in their opinion, are raised at the moment, are disproportionate in relation to the impairment - if you like - of rights, but also the violation of certain constitutional principles. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In other words, with regard to the partnership between the parties, I have to tell you this: Article 1 says that we can have concessions as long as the mayor's party participates in the partnership. Here we are dealing with - if you want - with an extreme restriction of freedoms, we are dealing with an extreme restriction of rights within the boards and with one, if you like, resentful or disparate management of similar situations. In Article 2, we also have the setting-up of economic committees and committees of quality of life in breach of the Constitution, because the people's mandate is actually distorted and the majority that, now, the economic committee and the quality of life committee will be fully monitored by the mayor. And on the third issue - which I think I have previously argued - powers are transferred from the municipal council to the committees, which violates Article 102 of the Constitution, which guarantees the principle of self-government. On the second point, on which we plead unconstitutionality...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Janakopoulos, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u5	Two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u6	I'll give you another minute. I won't ruin the process. I tell you quite clearly, and it applies to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u7	In relation to Article 64, as it has emerged in the theory, through the positions of the late Aristovoulos Mansis and also of constitutionalists who have written in relation to this issue, we must say this: Asylum, despite the fact that it is not explicitly enshrined in the Constitution, is in fact one of the main institutional joints of the university's self-employed. It is precisely for this reason that each government can - and this is why it is considered politically - define specific restrictions or define specific conditions within which university asylum will be regulated, but it cannot under any circumstances completely abolish it. In our view this is an infringement of Article 16 of the Constitution. Now, as far as the article is concerned...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u8	Hang up, Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Kaklamani, please, we have a bill that...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u10	It is not a matter for me to allow you, it is what the Rules of Procedure say.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u11	The Rules do not say that we will discuss a hundred and seven articles in one day. So let me make my place...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Janakopoulou, I'm fixing the time and I'll put you two minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u13	Can you remove my word?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u14	The Rules of Procedure are clear, re-examined...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u15	Can you remove my word?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u16	I'm talking now, Mr. Janakopoulos. I'm not taking you away, I'm going to give you two more minutes. The Rules of Procedure are clear with a recent revision of Rule 100. It's perfectly clear. And I do not want to sit down and measure how urgent and urgent bills came in the previous parliamentary term. Please, we won't get the process over with. Take two minutes to finish, but in two minutes we'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u17	In any case, as far as the procedure is concerned, there have already been samples of writing from the majority of us who will be following them in the course of the procedure. In any case, I have the following to say in relation to Rule 101. I think unconstitutionalism is clear and obscure. I think the contradictions in the government's positions, but also in the majority, are clear. I think it is a photographic provision which violates a fundamental principle of the rule of law, namely that the laws must be universal, general and abstract, not specify specific cases. No one can deny that. It has also been made almost clear from the position of Minister Georgiadis yesterday, who clearly said that this is why they are putting the provision down, that is to say, to change the chairman of the Committee on Competition. That's confessed. In the second issue we are dealing with a violation of fundamental principles, too, of the Constitution, such as the principle of proportionality and the principle of independence of the independent authorities. But I want to say a little more. This regulation is also directly in breach of Union law. The case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union is very clear. Already in C288/2012, Hungary has been convicted of a similar case involving the breach of the principle of independence in the case of the Committee on Personal Data Protection, which, during the term of office of the President, was incomprehensible that led to its decline. It is precisely the same as in the case that we are dealing with here. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This caselaw of the European Court of Justice also established Directive 1/2019, which lays down specific conditions of protection for competition committees. One of them is that it is not possible in the cases of competition committees to change the terms of appointment...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u18	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u19	I'll be done in 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u20	Calm down in the mountains!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u21	... the leadership of these authorities during his term of office and, on the contrary, there must be a transitional provision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much. And for your information, I have never removed the floor for four and a half years when I go to the Chair, except for two cases of Golden Dawn gentlemen, not for the time, but for what they were saying. We're moving on with Mr. Loverdo. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. I guess I'll have the same time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u24	You'll all have the tolerance for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u25	If necessary, Mr President. I should like to begin with the main theme of the draft law, which defines its principle, which is the relevant regulation with local government. Here, then, I would like to remind Members who were here in the previous period of the Parliament, but also to inform those colleagues who have now elected that I had a conspiracy then, when in the summer of 2018 the 'CLITHENIS' was voted, we had expressed the view that this law, Mr President, does not change, abolish. Its regulations are such that you cannot heal them with amendments or with changes. This position was horizontal and vertical and, I say, concerned all parties in the Opposition. The elections are here, the association of forces has changed, we have another government now, another parliamentary majority, and suddenly we learn that the "CLISTHENS" is changing, amended, changed, corrected. That's an abandonment of a start-up position. This argument is political. Let us now see how one can think, seeing from the point of view of an objection of unconstitutionality, the arrangements laid down in Articles 2, 3 and 12. In Articles 2 and 3, an unconstitutional intervention is organised which is reflected in many issues, but also in Article 12 which regulates budgetary matters. Mr President, we have a number of constitutional provisions which do not allow this kind of regulation and the House must not accept these rules. I begin with the core of the issue, which is from a constitutional standpoint in Article 102(1), especially Article 102(1). The administration of the Greek state, the administration of Greece - to say it better - is articulated, Mr President, as is known at four levels: government, administration - here is the central state - regions and municipalities which are the decentralised state. At the same time, decentralisation procedures are being organised, i.e. transferring responsibilities. This possibility of moving from the central state to the self-government state is in accordance with the third subparagraph of Article 102(1) permanent. It's not instantly. It is continuous and is carried out in the choices of the ordinary legislature. To see this in relation to the issue we are facing today, we cannot overlook either Article 1(2) and (3) which touches on popular sovereignty and on the fact that powers stem from the people and that these very centralised constitutional arrangements are reflected in Article 102. That's the grid of the devices. And I would like to agree with Mr Janakopoulos that also Article 25 of the Constitution establishing the principle of proportionality following the review made by us in 2001 and by this article of the Constitution enters into the dance of thoughts on this matter and defines what Parliament will ultimately decide whether the provisions of Articles 2, 3 and 12 are or are not in line with the Constitution. It is not, Mr President. I threw out the core of the arguments. And I call on the Members of all the parties to stand critical of the government and to vote in favour of these proposals on the unconstitutionality of these arrangements. I must, however, place myself in the time available to me for both the other topics Mr Janakopoulos has mentioned and proposed the unconstitutionality of Article 64 and Article 101. Let's go to Article 64. It is acceptable to everyone and to all who are involved in the area of public law that university asylum is not established in our Constitution and in particular in Article 16. However, Article 16(1) shows the need to protect the free movement of ideas and the freedom of teaching. In 1982, after the painful experience of the dictatorship and still active in the Great Security Act, the legislator then on our own initiative again, with No.1268, predicted asylum. It's been decades since. I've also had the university experience for two decades. Before I became a congressman, I was practicing the office of a university professor. Mr President, in all my experience, but also in what I have retrospectively seen, I have not found an example since the 1980s and during the 1980s that a young doctorate had a problem of freedom to protect himself from asylum because he was preparing his doctoral thesis. I do not have an example of a lecturer - and I am referring to a lecturer and a candidate for a doctor, because I am getting caught in the academic hierarchy of those with the smaller powers - I do not know, I have not heard, I have not read a lecturer who has limited his freedom to teach what he has written and what he has believed. On the contrary, Mr President, in these decades we have seen the university have become an area in which violations of human rights move. And as far as the free movement of ideas is concerned, things go backwards. Through barbaric and trumpet procedures it is forbidden for people to express their opinions by teaching, taking care of, or doing seminars. I've seen - and we've seen - rector authorities persecuted, wrangling, arrogatory offices to take over, the property of the Greek public to be destroyed. This has to stop. And to stop this, there has to be adjustment. The next two-quarters, that is today and tomorrow, will give us the opportunity to find the right regulation. However, the question of unconstitutionality here does not exist. To talk about asylum and its need, there must be a problem we are talking about. And what's the problem? The lawlessness, Mr. President. This must be stopped and the efforts of all of us must be brought to an end. I'm going to talk to my main speech about that. Finally, Article 101.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u26	That's a little soon, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u27	Previously on "Magistrates". I counted it. Mr President, there is a history of a particular person, the former judiciary, Mrs Thanos. For us Mrs Thanos' story begins from the moment she sued the late Stavros Tsakakis, professor of Constitutional Law, because the man on the social media made a criticism of her, not of barbaric expressions. He sued him for exulting and slandering, asking for prosecution against him. Mrs Gennimatas, President of the PASOK then protested with her announcement and received a letter from the then President of the Ice Bay in an immoral style, which she naturally rejected by her own letter. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Then we realised that the individual had not just made a party choice, as he has a right, but was trading, and this transaction is being set up, Mr President, and I close, with the post he subsequently took as president of this particular independent authority. This is why, in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, Evangelos Venizelos had expressed the view of our party. [[At this point, the repetitive bell closes the speaking time of the honourable Member]] I'm hanging up. What's the problem now? The problem is that we need to go beyond an issue that cannot be combined in the sense of independence of the independent authorities and therefore rules on the subject should be discussed. Yesterday Mr. Tsipras said that...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Loverdo, I can't leave you any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u29	You'll give me 20 seconds and I'll close.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u30	Just twenty seconds, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u31	Yesterday, he said that Members of Parliament, including myself, when the regulation concerning Mrs Keramea indirectly applied, had said that the retroactiveness of such arrangements was forbidden. I, because I could have said it, and I had to weight it to support what I am supporting today, looked in the Minutes and didn't find any such speeches. I said it was changes with party criteria. I hadn't used the argument of retrospectiveness. But even if I had used it, I'd have had a chance today to count it. Therefore, Mr President, we do not agree with the objection of unconstitutionalism on Articles 64 and 101.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much. Listen, because the majority spokesman may have to answer all the objections, I suggest that we now go back to it. In other words, I should like to give the floor to the representatives of Mera25, the Greek Solution and the Communist Party, and then to the majority representative and the Minister, who will be chosen by the government to answer and close it. I think that this practice is better, because the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative must have an integrated view. From Mera25, who's gonna talk, Mrs. Sacorafa?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u33	Our representative hasn't been here yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u34	You can, if you want, speak as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u35	You will allow me not to take such a burden.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u36	Good, if it's over, we'll give him the floor later. We're moving on to the Greek solution. I see Mr. Villard is a representative, but the President will speak. Here, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u37	Mr President, I would like to say that the issue of all three issues raised is not legal in order to find a common place at least in here. Extremely political is the issue. I mean, let's not deceive ourselves. I hear Mr. Loverdo, whom I like to speak legally, people don't understand. ‘Article 1, Article 5, Article 6’. These are political issues which have been raised and which are true. So let us leave the excuses for building a visa. I'm starting with the unconstitutionality. Let me ask you something very simple, ladies and gentlemen. Are we talking about constitutionality here when the country is the commissioner? The self-evident. We have been under comitology for ten years and we have been talking about unconstitutionalism in the country. So it's a little absurd to hear things just to do our party - if you want - treatment. We're addressing our party audience to pete his ears. There is no question of unconstitutionalism if we want to speak with committees in democracies. Let's actually go. I will ask a political question: if the districts and mayors were all SYRIZA, would the New Democracy do the same? No, the district managers happened to be a New Democracy. So that's the problem. That's why I'm saying it's just political. It's neither unconstitutional nor nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u38	What about Arnautakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u39	Okay, it doesn't matter, you took Arnautakis, who's one of them one of them, one of SYRIZA, one of PASOK. That's not what I'm interested in. If the New Democracy wasn't a majority, it wouldn't. Same goes for SYRIZA. You know, when governments change, they change attitudes and positions, because they always speak from position and not from principle. This is a major issue for democracy and our citizens. Let's get to the point. Asylum: We lie in here. There is no asylum in Greece. Caklamani can't go or me or others who disagree with the extremists at the university to enter and take a walk. That's not an asylum of ideas, it's got to stop lying. I am frankly tired of saying that there is no abolition of asylum, the law does not abolish asylum, first. We're all lying. Asylum is for certain reasons. It has not existed for decades. Trumps, traffic, drugs celebrating and operating there. What are we talking about when the asylum itself has been violated by those who are already defending it? Those who go forth today, the wrestlers, who defend the asylum, are the same who do not allow the asylum to exist. And why am I saying that it is political, Mr President? I'll tell you now. Because everyone is talking about asylum, but they don't talk about teachers doing business in there. Everyone's talking about asylum, but they don't talk about graduates who work for free for teachers in there. Everyone's talking about asylum, but they don't dare break the abscess, because the abscess isn't the students. It's the spiritual leadership, the teachers, who don't finally take the university's fates in their hands. That's a reality. We've all been through university. Don't be fooled, because we're mocking the Greek people. On the other hand, I don't understand why SYRIZA talks about police rule. What does police rule, Mr. President? Tell me about it: What's a cop? Greek Observatory? The citizen's enemy? Who's afraid of the cop? I'll tell you what, the criminal. Anyone who's not a criminal is not afraid of the policeman unless we live in junkers. We may have commissionership, but - thank God! - Junta, we don't have, to clear up a few things, concepts and rules. Also, if we wanted to have real universities, we would see that party parties, Mr. Kaklamani, are not going anywhere. I have relations with Germany, I have said it here a thousand times. I grew up there, my family was there. Party to universities, where every party does whatever it wants, there's nowhere to be. Also - to close it here - if we really want Parliament to do business for universities, abolish party parties! What does the parties have to do with the universities? As my fellow Member Mr Paulakis said - he said something very appropriate - is the womb from which he is born - who? I will tell you, the Minister tomorrow, the Member of Parliament - education, education, the Greek citizen. This is the different location of the Greek Solution. Let's go to Mrs. Thanou. For Mrs Thanou, we made it clear yesterday, Mr President. It's not unconstitutional, it's entirely political. If Mrs Thanos did not oppose the New Democracy and did not do what she did with 'NOVARTIS' and all that, the New Democracy would easily accept it. Don't be fooled. They just have a personal issue with Mrs. Thanou. Of course, there is this and I have to write it down. Is there European law? It's over the Greek Constitution, yes or no? As soon as the European directive says specific things, a little difficult to achieve, it will be lost in the courts what New Democracy does. That is why I said yesterday that they act as unmarked, because when European law is above Greek law, any government cannot conflict with European law. I am not saying that Thanos is right, I say that SYRIZA has done so and badly New Democracy repeats a second mistake. And I'm closing up with the important thing for us. Either unconstitutional or constitutional in here, we are unfortunately all pretending. Their problem is Thanos, it's not the asylum, it's nothing. It is the party clientele, they want to address their voters and show that they conflict and that their work is done well. These are honestly old-fashioned and must stop here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u40	Here, Mr Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Very soon we are in the same spectators' work, only the roles have changed today. The opposition is SYRIZA, which is why he objects to anti-constitutionalism and government is New Democracy. What's confirmed? That the bourgeois Constitution you defend, you make it a raven. From this point of view, let us come to the specifics on which this call for unconstitutionalism is being made. First of all, Mr Loverdos raised a point that 'CLISTHEN' does not change. It seems what the KIC has been saying since the first moment that, with the essence of "KLITHEN" everyone agrees, both the New Democracy and the PASOK, but also SYRIZA, who brought him. And what is the substance of 'CLINEN' that remains? The greater coexistence of business with municipalities, the conversion of municipalities to public limited companies, the greater financial self-sufficiency of the municipalities, therefore the carpeting of the people, the greater supervision on the part of the state in the municipalities, to implement the laws with economic observation and decentralised administration. From this point of view, you have found a matter to get caught. What's the matter? The way in which you choose and the majority. This comes from SYRIZA's hermaphrodite electoral system, proportional to local and regional advisors and majority voters. But what are you doing? You're taking it a step further. You are, in fact, forming the committees with false majority voting, and you are also carrying responsibilities. So we say very clearly that these articles introduced by the Ministry of Interior by the JRC are against them. Secondly, with regard to asylum. It is a pretext for the various intervention measures which are being taken, because of course the current legal regime can and did not deal with them. From this point of view, what we are saying clearly is that what the government wants to achieve is the 'law and order' policy within the universities, that is to say, to show determination that the government's policy of converting universities into businesses, greater inconsistency and the asylum that large business groups have within the universities will continue. Degradation of diplomas, deforestation of student rights, demolition of student care will continue. Faced with these, there must be a buffoon, a student movement. That is exactly what you want to achieve, and in this very role you have Mr Velopoulos, who is literally causing, to come to the point of saying that party groups should also be abolished, he says, within the universities. That's where lawlessness comes from. What's the point? Just for there to be nothing, for there to be cemetery silence within universities for law and order. We say clearly that you must withdraw this provision. It is a provocative provision and will of course be dealt with by the student movement, by the workers and teachers within the universities. It won't be a long time, and you know it very well. Cemetery silence won't force you. So you're withdrawing this provision. If you do not withdraw it, the JRC will apply for a roll-call vote. Finally, for the notorious Competition Committee. Here Prime Ministers, parties and politicians are slaughtered on the foot of Thanos, one could say! Really, what kind of an independent committee is this? Who is it from? It's not appointed? Does it not, therefore, depend on those who appoint it? Does it not implement specific policies? What legal framework does it work? In the context of the European Union, it operates. And what does he want to defend? The evolution of capitalism. So, if you'll excuse me very much, what is this Competitiveness Committee doing? You're free market fans. Does this committee prevent concentration and concentration? Does it prevent economic growth? Since that's where the capitalist market leads. At the concentration and concentration, the economic growth of business groups. So what is he actually doing? Nothing at all. Only a few micro-modifications to the market shares controlled by the business groups. And tell us all these years, did its function have any effect on prices? Did he deal with anything? The prices that people have to pay for any goods? Did he put any issues on it? Just a little bit of a fine. Did it have any effect on the conditions in which workers are experiencing? You are really talking about 'APPROVAL'. You've been a government for four years. It's a four-year-old case. What happened? What did the Ministry of Labour do to deal with this situation, which you are described as a scandal? But, when you were in the government, you did absolutely nothing to ensure the work of the "EUROPE" dismissals - carried by the newspapers to the "ARGOS" by their owners - and there is continuity in their work. From this point of view, of course, it cannot deal with the dismantling of self-employed and professionals. So we say very clearly, Mr President, that it is hypocritically all these issues which are raised in the issues relating to unconstitutionality or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u42	Good. We're on the majority side. Which one, the parliamentary representative or the rapporteur will speak? One will speak. Here, Mr. Javarra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u43	As a number of things have to be restored under the Rules of Procedure, which carry a culture of parliamentaryism based on the principles of controversy, directity and orality, which is why I think I am obliged to respond to what the two speakers have said, namely that of colleagues who have raised issues of unconstitutionality in this draft law, from the side of SYRIZA and from the side of KINAL. I am referring immediately to the first issue, on the matter of the powers of the Minister for the Interior, on the taking of urgent arrangements, on the legislation for restoring the smooth functioning and governance of the institutions and the self-government authorities resulting from the elections of 26 May. The major issue, the major problem called for by the legislator and the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis to solve, is the inconsistency that exists between the fact that, on the one hand, the overwhelming victory in all the elections, in all the polls set up on May 26, is on the part of the candidates of the New Democracy who, while they have won and are obliged by the command they took from the Greek people to implement the programme in which they appeared before him and have asked them for their confidence, cannot objectively do so, because the implementation of Law 4555/2018, with the regulation on how the institutions of self-government should be promoted by the simple and unadulterated analogy system, depriving them of this possibility. This is the first, the main, fundamental anti-corruption that paralyses all self-government functions in the field of administration. Colleague, there is no self-government state. There is a form of administration, that is, there is an administrative system which falls within the broad concept of state and which is called self-government. So this is why, with these arrangements, what is the Minister for the Interior doing? He's trying to restore a smooth, sustainable and functional relationship between these processes. It achieves it, indicating the specific provisions. What are these provisions? Firstly, the introduction of the possibility of consortium of more factions, including the mayor's resignation that has been won, in order to have wider majorities which will enable the implementation of this programme approved by the people to become a power programme, namely to become political - self-government. The second is to ensure the majority of both the municipality and the legal entities of the municipality. That's self-evident. So the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, which fully accepts this attitude, lets it run on the basis of the accounts now consolidated in the case law of the Supreme Administrative Court of the Council of State and in the cases of decisions of the Council of State 3684, 3685, 3686, 3687, of 2009, which these decisions have said? They said that Article 102 of the Constitution establishes the representative system in local government. Representative system so that there is a dominant element is democratic legitimacy. And for there to be democratic legitimacy and for there to be functioning in the context of this democratic legitimacy of local self-government to fulfil its task, what is its task? Its task is to administer local affairs. And how does the administration of local affairs become? On decision making the bodies elected, formed and operated after the new elections. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So this function is normalized because in the way that the institutions have allocated their seats to the institutions, self-government cannot be the case and decision-making. This very case is explained by the legislator, by the Council of State, and indeed by the Supreme Administrative Court, with what specific considerations? They're very simple. It says, therefore, that the legislator, when forming and electing the electoral system, should be bound - it has a wide margin of action taking into account, of course, the political and social conditions which exist - and should take into account, firstly, the principle of Article 4 and 5, namely the principle of equality of vote, the principle of greater popular representation, of course, but also the principle of Article 25, which is the principle of proportionality. It is precisely this composition of the two authorities, which seemingly contradictory, which leads us to the following solution, that restrictions are possible at the beginning of the widest possible popular representation, i.e. that limits may be set in the way in which the institutions become democratic, but these restrictions should serve two conditions. The first is that they should seek a constitutionalally legitimate goal and this purpose has been legitimate with the many judgments of the Council of State, where it has been repeatedly decided that the formation of the electoral system in such a way that it is intended to create strong and effective self-government for the institutions coming from the elections is a legitimate constitutional purpose.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u44	And that's what you're finishing up with.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u45	Yes, sir. Mr. President, all right, mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u46	And don't exploit personal friendship.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u47	No, two yards and two weights. One metre.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u48	And the second case in terms of results is that there should be a proper functioning of these institutions, that is to say that they are not disproportionate to the objective pursued. That is what the Council of State has said. And the latter, with regard to matters relating to the formation and the responsibilities which exist in the Committee and in the committee, also exists this issue, and the Council of State says so clearly. The distribution of seats, the formation of the institutions and the operation of the institutions must have a bearing on the will of the people. The popular will, therefore, said that the mayor in Thessaloniki must be the one. But this one, elected and succeeded, has eight seats in forty - eight. E, how is it possible for the institutions to have a decision, i.e. to have an administration imposed by Article 102 of the Constitution on the resolution and management of local affairs?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Javarra, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u50	I have two other issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u51	No, no. You'll be closed, Mr. Javarra. You're talking nine minutes instead of five. Now please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u52	Then, Mr President, I am sorry, but I cannot speak with anxiety. Let me tell you...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u53	Yes, but the Rules of Procedure you have referred to three times are clear. I did the same thing to the previous guys.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u54	Good. No objections. What I said now was said by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament and in the vote on the bill which was finally made by Law No 4555/2018. I said them at that time as a Parliamentary representative to my fellow Members, but they did not intend to sit with us to find the best conditions and procedures to facilitate the popular verdict and the expression of popular will, so that we can have sustainable solutions in the direction of administration of local affairs through the Local Authorities and both institutions. I reserve - and I finish - to develop my views...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u55	In your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u56	... for Article 64 and Article 101 in the speech I shall make right away.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u57	Good. Thank you. On behalf of the Government, the Deputy Minister, Mr Lebanon, has the floor. You're a technocrat. I hope a five-minute is enough. Not that you'll have no tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u58	A small tolerance may be needed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, I would also like to speak later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u60	On behalf of the government, one will speak. The rival is one. Clear things under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u61	For Rule 64, Mr President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u62	I saw you, sit down. In the end you will receive the floor for the first time, otherwise on the basis of the Rules you cannot have the floor and Mrs Sakorafa knows that she is old. But I promised I'd give you the floor after the Minister. So don't stand up. Mr Levanie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after the two-day debate in the committee on the bill we are discussing, it was expected that the Civic Opposition would be objecting to unconstitutionality today. It was expected and this gives us an opportunity to discuss the substance of the draft law in the context of constitutionality. We are doing absolutely nothing to help, to give the tools to what the people have chosen to pursue their policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u64	Can't you take your point of view?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u65	Of course, Mr. Loverde.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u66	Please, no dialogue. Don't answer, Mr. Levanie. Mr. Loverde, please! Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u67	In addition to municipal councils, the people also elected the mayors. If I ask any Member, any citizen who won in Athens, he will say: 'Bakoyannis', he will not say: 'Athens Psila'. If they ask who won Patras, they will say: 'Peletides'. If they ask who won Thessaloniki, they will say: "Zervas". The hereditary single-personal body judged primarily for its policy is the mayor. Mr. Paulakis said in some conversation we had in committee...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u68	If you were to agree, you would not object to unconstitutionalism. Then, why are you talking now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u69	Another picture and another what he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u70	Carry on, Mr. Levanie.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u71	Mr Paulakis told the committee at some point that the mayor is an executive officer. First of all, I can't imagine that Mr. Paulakis, who was elected with 60% in '10 and 100% in '14, is an executive body. The mayor is a single representative body responsible for implementing the policy under the law and the rules. As matters have been raised, the Council of State has made a number of decisions. One was mentioned by Mr. Javaras, who said: ‘Decision 3684/2009. Since the constitution of '75 the legislator has sought to ensure the proper and effective functioning of the municipalities.' Decision 702/2019. It says, among other things, that the constitution does not guarantee the establishment of a minimum of decision-making or advisory powers for the ATTs. These organisational issues fall within the competence of the joint legislator.’ Decision - recent also -15/2015, because you talked a lot about the "card" of local government. It states that: 'This is because, in paragraph 1 of Article 6 of that Charter, it is laid down that the administrative self-sufficiency within the meaning of the authority of the OTE to define its internal structures finds a limit in the law, subject to which it is subject'. These three decisions, for example, have been taken by the Council of State. Mr. Janakopoulos spoke of the partnerships. The partnerships, as the article clearly says, can above the table, not below the table, agree to make a common management plan for the municipality and be regarded as a single component for the needs of this law. They maintain their selfishness, maintain their personal traits, but because the laws governing self-government, such as Law 3463, such as Law 3852, like "KLISTHENIS" speak of the mayor's party, it is understood that the mayor's party is the ones that coexist. What is the point of doing the same for the opposition groups? You spoke of the simple analogue. I mention the following cases: In the Municipality of Ilioupoli, Mr. Hatzidakis took six out of forty ones. In the Municipality of Thessaloniki, Mr. Zervas took seven in forty nine. In the Municipality of Pyrgos, Mr. Antonakopoulos, a KINAL official, took nine to thirty three. In the Municipality of Domokos, Mr. Lilios took twelve out of seven, 49.5% of the outgoing mayor, 42% in the first round, Mr. Lilios. Tell me, how will this man rule? How will he run the municipality? How will he make a decision? The culmination: In the Municipality of Orestiada we had a first round of election with 50.02%. The people have chosen from the first round. He gave him an absolute majority. Mayor was elected by Mr. Mavridis and has sixteen to thirty-three. He's missing one to have a majority. What are we going to tell this man? Would you please beg the ones you won from the first Sunday to join? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Secondly, because I saw that you were studying it in the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament says how to elect the committee. It is one of the articles on which the issue of constitutionality has been raised. It raises concerns about the proposed form of formation. It must, however, be weighed on whether the constitutional legitimate aim of creating strong and effective local authorities is essentially served by the provision that comes before you. The government considers this to be the case. Also, I listened very carefully to Mr. Loverdos. I heard him say that he suddenly learned that "CLISTENS" is changing. At a CEDEFOP conference in "Caravel", there has recently been a clear decision against mere analogy. I am referring to the CEDEFOP Management Board on 31 July.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u72	Did you abolish it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u73	Did you abolish it? What do you say, sir?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u74	It was a decision that was initially accepted by the self-government movement, which says that these provisions are in the right direction and none of the KINAL-related mayors had any serious opposition, especially to the constitutionality of the provisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u75	You were talking to others. They're disguised.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u76	Not disguised.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Kegeroglu!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u78	We're giving them the right-wing disguises!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u79	You won't let the process happen!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Kegeroglu, I see at 12 o'clock tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u81	In conclusion, if we really want to discuss the constitutionality of a provision, we can discuss what happened last summer. A quasi-equity, third degree of self-government, despite the explicit anticipation of a two-degree constitution, was created. What did you do? You took the local communities, put them on a separate list, tried to give them responsibilities, disconnected them from the combinations that take place in the municipality, as if it were something independent, and something that is not linked to the wider municipal policy. That was unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u83	Mrs. Ceramic, please sit down. We are talking about unconstitutionalism. The Rules of Procedure are here. One of the government speaks of unconstitutionalism. In the position you are going to make in your speech, you will answer for what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, the procedure is specific...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u85	Here's what I'm telling you. The process is as I call it. Apparently, because it happened...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u86	Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u87	You cannot speak when the President-in-Office speaks! As for the Members, it also applies to the ministers! However, because everyone has raised the issue of asylum, if I have the agreement of the Chamber, for three minutes I will give Mrs Keramethos the floor to speak only on asylum.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u88	You've got it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u89	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u90	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u91	Then if you want anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u92	I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u93	Here, Mr. Janakopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u94	The Government had the opportunity to address the asylum issue, and the majority parliamentary representative had the opportunity to speak. They chose not to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u95	Don't you want to hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u96	Don't answer Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u97	Nevertheless, there is no objection from our side, although we must recognise that this is something that goes beyond the limits of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u98	I think I said it myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u99	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u100	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u101	Look. In the past four and a half years, we have had too many problems and many conflicts, we have had no more than seven times the objections of unconstitutionality ours. The courts have decided twenty-fifth prefectures that they are unconstitutional. We have not abused and always, Mr President, we have followed the procedures as the President of this House directed, that is, you today.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u102	The President-in-Office, not me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u103	The guy. They have given a comfortable time, as we have taken today, but from there on the abuse of government intervention in a draft law which the House deems to be or is not constitutional. I disagree. Why do I disagree? Not because I do not want their opinions to be heard, but because Mr Javarras, a parliamentary representative, and Mr Lebanon's Minister, have not talked about the other three issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u104	Don't make a second placement cycle now. Please calm down. Finish, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u105	I shall conclude, Mr President. Why should the government on a matter which concerns only Parliament and not the majority-member government, and which has been the Minister, should we listen to the second? Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u106	In any case, as soon as I can put the matter in plenary, the plenary will decide on the two or three minutes. Sit down, Mrs. Kerameau, it's not your time yet. Sit down, don't stand up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u107	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u109	Mr Javarra, you have no reason why the parliamentary representative of your party is calling for him. Here, Mr. Bouga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u110	I'll speak on the basis of the article...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u111	We are talking about this question if you are in favour of Mrs Kerameau talking about anything else. I'm clear. Mr. Javarras talked about everything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u112	I give the opportunity to speak as a parliamentary representative, because I have the opportunity, Mr Javarras spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u113	No, you don't have it now that we're talking about unconstitutionality, you've got it after.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u114	In any case, Mr President, I am in favour of the Minister speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u115	Good. Thank you very much. Before I raise this matter in plenary because I have promised and I think none of you object at all to giving Mrs Angeliki Adamopoulou the floor from Mera25. Here, my colleague, you have the floor. Please be consistent in time, because your position is derogated.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. I apologise for the delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u117	I don't need to apologize.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u118	We agree with the objection to Article 1 on OTAs. We believe that it violates the democratic principle of Article 1(3) by intervening a law between the people's mandate and the emergence of decisive bodies, as well as by transferring decisive powers from local councils to the economic committee and the quality of life committee. About asylum, as I was placed in my first speech...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u119	Be quiet, please! Let anyone who wants a word get out of the Chamber! Continue, my colleague, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u120	Asylum may not be provided for under Article 16 of the Constitution, but it is a quasi-constitutional requirement, which arises from the self-employed of universities. We believe that dealing with infractionality is a simple pretext, because if there were political will to deal with crime, respectively, in places outside universities, these phenomena would have been dealt with, for example drug trafficking, which is often done before police bodies. And we have witnessed many of these incidents. We therefore believe that the police first of all do not have the necessary training in order to make such mere phenomena, the misdemeanor not the felonies, to deal with them in such a way that they do not abuse power and arbitrary arrests. For example, if there is a simple ideological controversy between two partners, what will happen? There'll just be suppliers, call the police, and what's next? We consider, as a PARTA25, that there should be a special group, a guardian who is exclusively within the university, trained to deal with such phenomena in a way that academic freedom is not violated, respectively. Finally, as regards Article 101, we generally agree with the incompatibility, but we believe that this is indeed a photographic provision, because, as the Committee on Competition pointed out, a corresponding provision is not provided for the other twenty independent authorities. There should be no retroactive effect. It is the public interest - and we agree with Mrs Thanos - that, in other words, the subject of this committee is the disclosure of various phenomena which are at risk of being tampered with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u121	After Mr Tzanakopoulou's position, which I thank him for making it easier for the Bureau, and Mr Buga's position, the House, by a large majority, decides only to give Mrs Kerameos the floor for three minutes to speak on the issue of the unconstitutionality of the article on asylum alone. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u122	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would also like to thank the House for this concession. I consider it very important for constitutional reasons that there should be a government position on a major issue in relation to Article 16 of the Constitution, which relates to that Article 64 of the bill. Two points, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, the Constitution in Article 16 protects academic freedom in research and teaching. What does that mean? It means freedom for every member of the university to participate in research and teaching, thus developing his or her personality. Today we are talking about this constitutional check is not, in fact, guaranteed. Why? Because there is no total freedom in the movement of ideas at the university, because it is precisely the case that restricts this constitutionally guaranteed freedom. Point two. Academic asylum? What's an academic asylum? It is a web of more specific institutional guarantees for the insolvent exercise of academic freedom. It's not established in the Constitution. Dear Mr. Janakopoulou, not only is it not guaranteed, but I urge you to look back at the Minutes of the House, then of the House. There you will see that minority speakers had proposed that asylum be safeguarded constitutionally. But that was not accepted by the majority. So it's explicitly not guaranteed in the Constitution. But there is another provision in the Constitution, Article 25.1 of the Constitution. What is provided for in Article 25.1? That the state institutions must ensure that constitutional rights and the principles of the social rule of law are applied unrestrictedly and effectively. Watch out. This is not at the discretion of the State. It's the state's obligation. Some of the things I'm saying are also highlighted by the Scientific Service of the Parliament. In conclusion, for two reasons, the Government today can have the specific provision of Article 64, which is fully constitutional. What are these two reasons? Firstly, Article 16 to ensure precisely academic freedom in research and teaching. Because today misinterpretations taking place within university institutions restrict this constitutionally regulated freedom. The second reason is Article 25.1 of the Constitution. Because the state, ladies and gentlemen, has an obligation to safeguard protection of life and personal security. And this obligation is made by the state and not by the university. The self-employed of the university exists and is also constitutionally guaranteed. However, according to settled case-law of the Council of State, the self-employed is concerned with the affairs of the university itself - and like the case-law of the S.H.E. That is to say, the right to choose administrative bodies, their staff, to draw up curricula. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. So as the Scientific Service of the Parliament, the legislator, i.e. the House, is the structure of the protection system in a way that ensures the unobstructed exercise of constitutional rights. It is therefore the lawmaker to see to it that there can be academic freedom in research and teaching. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u123	The debate under Rule 100(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure on the question of constitutionality has been concluded. I propose to the two signatories that there are two articles in which you coincide, first of all that we vote on the two articles. Because I realized, Mr. Loverdos, that in the rest you have a different position. Well, instead of a stimulus, we'll do two.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u124	If we agree with Article 12, we shall do one for Article 12, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u125	What Mr Janakopoulos signs is Articles 1, 2, 3, 64, 101. What you sign up to, Mr. Loverdos, are Articles 2, 3 and 12. Articles 2 and 3 coincide. So I am first making a joint vote on Articles 2 and 3 and a second on the remaining three articles tabled by Mr Janakopoulos and on which you have another view.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u126	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u127	Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u128	Because it is a little confused by the vote, to explain our vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u129	She's not confused, she's clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u130	I say because they are one-off issues, we want to explain our vote. In Articles 1, 2, 3 and 12 and 64 we are voting in favour of unconstitutionalism and in Article 101 we are abstaining from the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u131	Good, it was recorded in the Minutes. But you know that the process is different. By accepting the objection of unconstitutionality, namely that Articles 2 and 3 are not in accordance with the Constitution, I would ask them to rise. [[Responding to the objection]] It is clear that the required number of Members from the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House did not arise. The objection of unconstitutionality is therefore rejected. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Have a seat, gentlemen. Don't yell at an old MP. Leave it now, because there's another way. We now go to the other articles 1, 64 and 101 of Mr Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u132	Separately the procedure, one, one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u133	No, it's not the process, Mr. Janakopoulos, for one, one. What we have been following for a hundred and fifty years is what we are going to follow now. We're not going to change it. Ask your representative to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to change it and if the Committee on the Rules of Procedure changes it, then I would be happy to do it one, one as we do in the bills.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u134	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u135	What do you want, Mr. Janakopoulos? When the vote begins, interventions will not take place. In any case, however, you have the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u136	Previously, Mr President, I have made it easier for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u137	That is why I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u138	So I say that I call for you to be facilitated and for each article to be voted on separately.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u139	No, that's not a question of the President-in-Office's kindness. It is a question of keeping the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u140	And the last one was. I would therefore ask you to make it easier, and at least for Article 64 to vote differently.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u141	It can't be done. So the other three articles are the second and final vote. By accepting the objection of unconstitutionalism, that Articles 1, 64 and 101 are not in accordance with the Constitution, I would ask them to rise. [[Responding to the objection]] It is even more obvious that the required number of Members from the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House did not rise. The second objection of unconstitutionalism is therefore rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, here we are moving on to the draft bill. This bill, following the decision of the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice and the Standing Committee on Morphic Affairs, on a proposal from the relevant Minister, is discussed in accordance with the urgency procedure, in accordance with Rule 76(5) of the Constitution and Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting of 1 August 2019 to discuss the draft law at one to two meetings. I tell you in advance that on the basis of the number of Members who have been written, the meetings will be two, single on the principle, articles and amendments. Is there a disagreement on this basic proposal? As far as I can see, there's no disagreement. The House therefore agreed. I would just like to remind you now, in order to make a deal before the first speaker goes up at the Step, that, because of the urgency of Parliamentary representatives, on the basis of the new amended Rules, they are speaking once for twelve minutes, they have no dentistry. The rapporteurs and the special speakers have 12 minutes, as do parliamentarians, and they have six minutes of secondary education. And the ministers - I leave the Presidents of the groups, because something needs to be done here, or we have to change the time within the Rules of Procedure or something else, and I am referring to everyone - have 12 minutes too. So I say to you that, after the first six speakers, rapporteurs and speakers, the Prime Minister, Mr Theodorikos, will take the floor and follow, but the other ministers, as well, will intervene. As the bill is large and with many articles, I make the proposal to the general rapporteurs and the special speakers - and I want the unanimous decision of the House - instead of twelve minutes going to 15 minutes, so that they can have a longer time. But the 15 minutes must be observed. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u142	Therefore, the House unanimously agreed. Here, Mr Javarra, you have the floor as rapporteur for the New Democracy for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President, and I undertake to speak for 15 minutes. The only difference is that I consider it my duty to start from where I stopped my position on the unconstitutionality that has been set, because the reason that has been put forward in connection with the debate on the draft law covers all the possible references that have the meaning that arises from the reading of the provisions of each particular bill. I am saying this because I have already heard it say that the issues are political and there is no need for any legal approach. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to come to an agreement at some point because it is very easy to speak politically and to try to solve legal problems. Politics, then, we are talking about politics and we are talking about legal matters. It can't be done differently. And if it's somewhere these two things are getting involved, it's just right now that we're talking. Because on the basis of each legal arrangement there is a political choice. In other words, from this debate we are having today, what will emerge is to unite a political debate that has grown up and which has reached the point of becoming a legislative initiative and to get today after the vote and after its entry into force and the form of legal regulation. So what gives me the right to speak today by saying what I am going to say - because in my word I have to unite all the possible references that may exist and are activated by reading the provisions - is this provision of Article 64, which has been repeatedly offended for unconstitutionality. And here are the following questions: What asylum are we talking about? We are talking about an asylum, which characterises the university's space with a word composed of 'a' the deprivation and verb 'blocking', which means 'dreaming','meeting', 'violating' and 'violating'. But if the issues are raised from this point of view, then there is no question of disagreement. Because what we all agree on is that no one in this Chamber has the intention of getting out of this bill that we are going to vote today on the possibility of rushing freedom of teaching and knowledge within the university area, but of protecting it on behalf of those who are involved in the university community and who are institutions and beneficiaries of this freedom. And, of course, here to this very solution is the story of this idea, which has become an asylum for us since 1973 and, of course, during the junta. For Europe, however, it has never been a question of asylum. And there was never a question of asylum because it is in 1792 that the French Revolution with its so-called “contractual assembly”, the “Convention”, as they call it, abolished all asylums and declared that the only asylum of the citizen is the law. If, therefore, there is the possibility here today of joining a sustainable policy to protect what we call 'asylum' at the same time as a legal arrangement which, from the adoption of the law and then, will be the rule that will prevent any violation of academic freedom, we have this obligation to do so today and give it to society, without being committed to ideas and, above all, without using asylum with a landslide function. For some are begging the asylum, supposedly, is the banner of their participation in a struggle in which all the Greek people existed. And this fight is the resistance against the dictatorship. So here, we should first and foremost investigate whether, through the formulation of Article 64, we can participate in a dialogue that has begun in Europe for twenty years and is about how this organisation, the university of today and tomorrow, in view of the economic, fair and ethical conditions that govern and regulate the field of academic freedom, should be organised. That's the problem. This is where all the possible references that will form the basis of this dialogue must come from. I therefore believe it is my duty to say and to refer to the fact that, as we all know, we all regard and support university as a European matter as an institution. It started at the end of the Middle Ages. And it is known that the first resistance through the university against all darkness - the Church at that time - and every dogmatism later in science was organized from within the university to the outside. Here, indeed, are the cases of the Universities of Pantoba and Pavia. In 1815, a decree is issued in Paris, called the 'university privilege'. It is the translation in Greek of “franchise universitaire”. And that is what still applies in France to date, without any law prohibiting the intervention of the police or other authority in the field of university. This intervention should be done with respect, however, in the fact that the space of the university is protected by the state and by all citizens, but also by the university community, where criticism, knowledge, teaching in terms of freedom is flourishing. This was exactly the monumental lecture he made in Stanford in 1998, the great intellectual and philosopher of the 20th century Zach Derida, when he spoke of the unconditional university. This lecture was repeated here at the French Institute on June 2, 1999, and a year later, a guest of Jurgen Hambermas, he made it in Frankfurt. This is where the basis for each debate arises. The university is the place through which it should be publicly formulated with absolute freedom anything related to knowledge, learning and the thought of truth. This unconditionality concerns freedom and free access to the truth, but on behalf of those involved in this area. This is why two questions are raised here. The first question is - and it is real and philosophical and moral - that if at some point in the university there is a majority, and it says that for reasons of protection of our interests we abolish this asylum and impose a monolithic view of what is legal, what is medicine, what is philosophy, so they are not responsible and guilty of destroying asylum, even though they are institutions of this university privilege? That is why, because they have an absolute relevance, they should not be treated with monomonies and dedications to words which may have been charged from their use, but we should say in essence that Article 16 of the Constitution, as formulated, does not refer to asylum. What is mentioned is the absolute protection of freedom of teaching, research and knowledge. And in this sense, the provision of Article 64 is absolutely committed to both the spirit and the letter of the Constitution, because, as I said before, it does not protect what we say "asylum" only from any interventions of the state, dogmatism, darkness, but protects them and against anyone who wants to destroy or restrict academic freedom, whether it is exotic, or whether it comes from outside, but whether it is someone who lives inside the university. So this is the absolute clarification of the meanings resulting from this provision and no one, but no one here has the right to say that this provision infringes Article 16 of the Constitution, and most importantly that it does nothing but perhaps the most successful, in my view, regulation that was made in 2007 by Mrs Marietta Giannakou under Law 3549, where there was also the opinion, as the Minister said, that asylum is not an entity, as I said before, but is a net of guarantees intended to protect academic freedom, but not any action, but only those who are involved in this process called a learning process, which is called teaching. And in that sense, ladies and gentlemen, I think that in all respects this provision is a success. I'm coming to Article 101. Ladies and gentlemen, Article 101 introduces a coma, as it is said, incompatible between the work of the Chair and the member of an independent authority, which is the Competition Authority, which is of great importance and value for the functioning and application of the market rules in terms of free and undistorted competition, and at the same time it is assumed that, in order to function effectively, those who are involved should be persons of unknown independence, and in their mind and function and their service, that is to say, that they are objectively not subject to any external intervention and to any political influence. That is precisely the content of Directive 1 of 2009. That is the basis, that is the reasoning. Of course, this directive does not commit us to this, because it is not a directive which calls for its provisions to be incorporated into national law, but it is a European directive which seeks to harmonise legislation so that every state can choose the measures and means it uses to achieve this objective, that is to say, having people in the key positions of that authority who are unaffected. However, even though this directive does not yet bind us, it seems to me that there is no incompatibility with this directive, but with any other regulation of constitutional or non-existent nature in Greece, with the fact that it can no longer be objectively proven that they were involved in relation to service dependency and that they were employed in offices of Prime Minister, Minister, Secretary-General, Secretary-General, that is to say political persons, political officials and government actors, cannot by one of these persons, appointed in the seat of the President and Vice-President or members of the administration of that authority, be cleared only of the fact that they were chosen by the Prime Minister. These - I beg your pardon - are some certainties on which some have been unwisely caught to allegedly give the impression that Mrs Thanos is the Pasinorias, as was allegedly told in a newspaper about SYRIZA. That is not the case, ladies and gentlemen. You obviously put Mrs Thanos' case before her because there are two other cases, three which you would like to cover, because once these people were serving with a relationship of dependence and employed in the offices of Ministers, Secretary-General and so on as members of the SYRIZA, the Central Committee. That's not how this story works. This committee is very serious and has a very important task in order to be able to cope with this way of returning the gift that the Prime Minister once accepted from the unpaid and free provision of Mrs Thanos' legal services. Because, as I was saying in committee, the gift comes within it with only one obligation, the obligation to pay it back. So she returned this gift to Mrs Thanou, the Prime Minister, thanking her for the services she offered him, by appointing her in this particular position. This cannot go on. And it cannot go on precisely because its continuation violates the public interest and, in fact, this breach of the public interest, which is served by being and serving in these principles unbiased persons, precisely this infringement, is an important fact, which is objectively obvious. And that is precisely the case, Mr Janakopoulos, on the basis of the judgment of the European Court of Justice invoked - Decision 288 of 2012 - is excluded from the case in which the persons who are already involved in these posts are also able to act as a ground for deduction. So there is no question. Everything's solved. All we have to solve here is that we have to respect each other when he sounds and give him the right to express his thought. Because any serious dialogue - and even if it is a parliamentary one - is to be able to move forward and make a composition which is beneficial to democracy and the people, it should be under the rules. And that is why I told the committee yesterday that my presence here in the whole dimension of my participation is of a crusade because I am dealing with arguments against opponents, but this conflict is regulated by specific rules, which are the rules laid down in the Rules of Parliament. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u144	Me too, Mr. Javarra. The general rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Paul Paulakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u145	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to address as many points in the bill as I can. We had a big conversation two days on the committees. We've said too many things. I think we should repeat the substance of the articles. With this bill, which is a multi-legislative bill, you are essentially continuing the effort it started with the vote of yesterday's bill for a new neoliberal state of post-democracy. Your final state, which we voted yesterday, is essentially a Ministry of the Presidency of the Government with five hundred officials at the Maximos Mansion for direct control by the Prime Minister of all the social and economic issues of the next parliamentary term and all that is to be shared over the next period. The interventions you make with this bill and the first part concerns self-government, in essence, is a violent counter-reformation of a reform that has not been implemented. In fact, you are canceling the Greek people's recent vote in the municipal and regional elections without the councils even being formed. You consider and hide that these will have a problem with some very extreme examples, giving weight to these examples and not to the majority, concealing the fact that the vast majority of municipalities, too, have the potential to have majorities and correlations in order to make decisions. That's what you're hiding. Take some regional examples. All the work you do here is for Thessaloniki. With 14% we need to shape terms. What are you practically doing? You are taking - and Mr Lebanese is not here - the power that is from the parliamentary body, which is the municipal council, and you are giving it back to the mayor, however, very well. Because he also defines majority voting in the Economic Committee, majority voting in legal persons. The Economic Commission shall approve the budget of the legal persons. A series of powerful responsibilities that the city council had now, if the Economic Commission wants, will send them to make decisions on the municipal council. Where and how far does the Economic Commission plan recruitment and not the City Council? How and how far can the Economic Commission on its own regulate debts of a debtor in the municipality over 150,000 and without a limit of an amount? Where's that? Or delete debts? With a very wicked arrangement you've made, you're abolishing...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u146	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u147	I've made mayor, Mr. Comrade. I know how the city is governed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u148	Don't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u149	And in the false dilemma of rulership or democracy, yes, the answer is democracy, first of all. Because, in essence, 'CLINICAL I', which was the first attempt to reform, brought together a logic of cooperation between local societies and groups. The people decide on the first Sunday on the programme and rank each in their boot and say to them: "You on this side, with this programme, have so many advisors". On the second Sunday, in order to have an increased legal base - and I reply to a criticism - because it also needs a leader, everywhere he needs a leader, with the mayor's election, you elect the one who can compose from below, not reinstate him. Because that's what you're doing. And where local communities recognize that the party and the mayor have offered to the place takes them out of the first Sunday and take them off high. For they have work to prove. Where you see 10% rates, 12%, 14% and finally, it comes out on the second Sunday, because there has to be a mayor and there has to be someone to compose. With these measures you are doing, it cannot take absolute power again. You're doing something unprecedented. They unite by majority - I saw that you changed the wording, well you did with the majority of the two factions - and that, he says, cannot be revoked. Why can't it be revoked? To continue to have the majorities and the connections. Then you have some other things. The first serious attempt at intra-democratic decentralisation, which has been made - and anyone who has made a mayor or knows from local government can understand how powerful this 'CLISTENH' regulation was - that the president of a local community and the local council can decide - not to recommend - for small projects, minor lesions, small interventions at the border of the local community. Why are you taking this back? Is this a democracy, or is it the more general planning? In other words, we remove the possibility from a local community of seven hundred, eight hundred, a thousand people, which is 60 km away from the city's headquarters, to be able to repair ten lamps, to build a small water tank, to build a small sewer, to build a small biological cleansing. And this must be under the approval of the mayor. So we don't work, that's for a reason. Because he who makes a decision on money has power as well, so he reproduces his clientele networks on the one hand or regulates where money and other benefits go from the other. That's the answer. Then you have set some provisions, which are other than others. In what sense is the Vice-Presidents from the district commander who was elected? The Vice-Majors can also be from the minority. The captain may also be from the minority and may be from another island than the one he was elected. Here you have some people in your mind. After the results came out, after you know the faces, you set the provisions to help with photographic devices apparently specific people. That's it, don't work. It's not an intervention. After all, you do not have a history of these interventions. I also said before - and this is about the Change Movement - that KLITHENIS solved the problem with the cybernicality you say, which is a completely false copy. What were the two issues that could create a problem for the municipality? It was the adoption of the budget and the adoption of the technical programme. With the "CALICRATE" forty-two municipalities had lost the majority, where it received 60% of the municipal councillors, the winner. And they couldn't move on, and we had a problem. There was - let us say - a problem in Halandri, where there was a division of the party, which, for political reasons, did not vote for the budget. He could not do that now with "CLISTEN". He said that the vote was'registered'. You take these provisions. Mr Theodorikos, who has made the Secretary of the UN once, can see these provisions and what to draw up and how to put them. He's got training.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u150	Have you done CNN too?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u151	I'll tell about the asylum after a few. He said that if the vote is valid, you must have a concrete proposal. You can't say no to the budget that the mayor's party goes down. You need to download your own plan or you can vote by code or by group of codes to pay the employees, the funds, the children's stations, etc. The void, white or simple 'no' to the technical programme brought by the governing party - a programme on what will happen - was not measures. You should've said yours, or the vote wouldn't count, so go ahead. Now take these devices and rest it a little bit and make a owl over there. It goes on to say otherwise, of course, that the party that will bring something else will have to tell her if what she proposes is done. In other words, the services of the municipality now, which the mayor will be majority, will say by the opposition that it is good what they bring. You institutions the bazaar at a higher level. That's what you're doing now. You said that with "CLOSHEN" we would lead to extortion, gambling, etc. This partnership that you say with the majority - and not with all the members of the municipal councillors of the group that CLITHENIS provided for - is what? It's an Oriental bazaar, not just a bazaar what you're saying. That was a lot of talk in the committees. Because I have to say for others, I go further into the part of the digital strategy. Other colleagues will be here later. It's not Mr. Pierracakis who made a good speech yesterday. We answered him yesterday and on the substance of the matter, and I would like to repeat the questions here too. I want him to answer today, but not in general. I said he made a good speech yesterday, but because we answered him very specifically, I want to see you here today, because he did not reply yesterday. Firstly, at the top of the national digital strategy, what are the changes that you make to the Digital Paper? So what are the changes in the terms of the supply of software or infrastructure or hardware, to be followed by the entire middle-scale in the Ministries? This is money. I want you to say it specifically. Secondly, the horizontal programmes that had been advanced by the prior political leadership of the Ministry of Digital Policy, I would like you to tell us in particular whether they will go ahead or whether we will see in a couple of months after you have rethinked, do not go ahead, do not do so, etc. And thirdly, let us know at the level of the longer-term programming. I have said three specific programmes, digital GEMI, digital transformation of the agricultural sector and the electronic document handling system. This, as far as I know, is being implemented. I believe it will be implemented. He has nine months of delivery. It saves 400m euros this year. As you can also tell us about the Greek Space Center you are now building if the programs for microprocessors will proceed. I also want you to tell us who you are thinking of changing from long-term planning. I'll just say a word here. We saw it yesterday in the transitional provisions. You've put on some things that need to come your eyes out to see them. We didn't say it before because we hadn't seen it. In Article 61 in the transitional provisions, you say the following in paragraph 16. I imagine we'd have done it, what they'd have written, from the first fleas until it's not packed. You say: ‘The three IT posts with regard to public law employment and a three-year term of the former Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction, which were transferred to the Ministry of Digital Governance, based on the a.m.81/2019, are converted into permanent staff and are part of the IT sector. Staff with a three-year term of office in posts converted, in accordance with the preceding paragraph, shall occupy the three new posts of permanent staff and be ranked to a level equivalent to the formal qualifications.’ What's that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u152	Rusfetti.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u153	First of all, what's their name? Who are they? And what's that? Is it a permanentization of officials serving a three-year term and transferring them, recommending posts and permanentizing them? Isn't that unconstitutional? Isn't that rousphetti? Is that the ultimate state? Finally rosphetti!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u154	Did we get them?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u155	Did we get them?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u156	Leave who's got them. We are talking here about a contract, with legislation...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u157	Yours...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u158	Oh, that's great of you. Tell you what, and thank you! What are you saying, Mr. Javarra? Mr. Javarra, seriously...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u159	Let go of the dialogue, we're not on a television show. It's House Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u160	Yeah, okay, I'll say two more things. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr. President, can I speak for two more minutes? Firstly, I will say very little about asylum. It's falsified all your arguments. You don't care either whether you sell drugs to Aristotle or sell a biscuit in Marseilles or sell bags to some immigrants outside the ASEAN. This is the tobacco cover, because your great pain and great misery - you said it, Mr. Javarra, you just said it with complicateds - is that...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u161	Did I tell him?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u162	Yes, the space of the universities historically and especially after the Municipalization and especially after the insurrection of the Polytechnic and the entire post-cultural period is the place where they are carried, incubate, born, subversive ideas are born. The vision of social liberation is cultivated there. That's what you care about. You don't care about anything else. You know what? And Mr. Theodorikos came out of there and Mr. Akypis - who is not here now - is MP Zakynthos - to see how he will vote today - that we were together in the 1991 occupation of medicine and that was illegal on the basis of your logic. In 1991-1992, in the occupation of medicine, I was a resident, but I was on my way. Was I an exotic element then? In your logic, then, I was an ex-graduate element, because at the time I specialised in Nice and were the children who were two, three years younger than me with Mr. Surla - Mrs Bakoyannis will remember - who wanted to put tests before specialisation. And there was a six-month occupation. Yes, they made a six-month occupation and earned their lives, Mrs. Keramea. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] They won the opportunity to specialize every doctor who ends the university and not the son-in-laws, daughters and baptists of the teachers of medicine through a opaque procedure, as Mr....
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u163	Leave the specialty exams now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u164	Yes, Mr. Kaklamani, you know it yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u165	Yeah, because I know them. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u166	Because there was the asylum and it was born and this fight was won. And that's what you care about, that these ideas are born and reproduced there, in these spaces, and they will continue to do so no matter what laws and vote. These laws must and must be implemented in particular. The police told you yesterday, despite the fact that they said "yes, of course, it must be done, but let us not go inside and do police rule, etc." Does the academic freedom you're talking about want the police to be safeguarded? I told you the other example yesterday. On our side of SYRIZA youth in Thessaloniki, an extra-parliamentary Left party, George Karougalos did not let George Karougalos speak last year. Should we call the police to solve this? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u167	This is a scientific community, it has nothing to do with it. You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u168	This, however, needs to be solved within the university. And one last thing...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u169	And that's what you're closing up with, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u170	And with that I will close and thank you for your tolerance, Mr President. It is another provision which we referred to yesterday in committee. Aren't you telling me, ladies, have you seen Article 84? Why don't you talk at all?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u171	We saw it, it's an interpretative provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u172	Explanatory provision which concludes the amendment that we have started on the issue of the CFP and Mr Savvidis and which at that time, except that you have not hanged from the windows in here - have you? - "SYRIZA and Savvidis have found them, and they pass a charismatic amendment."
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u173	Where do you disagree here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u174	Leave it to me. Listen, Mr. Javarra, I'm revealing hypocrisy. We and then we said that a businessman bought a company whose previous government administration had been accused of smuggling and fined it, but which you did not say when the bazaar took place, when Samaras was begging him to take the CAP. You didn't say that. After he took it, so they wouldn't lose their jobs three hundred, five hundred people, then the fine came. And there was a whole story, and there was some of it and we passed a arrangement that said they were not co-responsible and that they should also be sought by those who did the job. The smuggling in this company, SKAP, was done by the state administration you put in 2009-2010. The new owner didn't do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u175	Mr. Polakis, close immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u176	Because there was a question of the time periods when the appeal was lodged, and all these two-coast and litigation cases, you are bringing here an interpretative provision, as you say, to which you include this case.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u177	Tell us where you're disagreeing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u178	Apologise, Mr. Javarra. Apologise. That's very simple. That's what you do.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u179	Good. Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u180	I bring it here just to prove your hypocrisy. I'll see you in secondary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u181	Since I will shortly be succeeded by Mrs Sakorafa and she will not be able to speak as a special buyer, I have the assent of the House that, when Mrs Sakorafa comes down from the Chair, she will choose the time when she will ask for the floor as a special buyer of Mera25. That's the way it always happens. Thank you very much. We move along with my colleague, Evangelia Likikolis, a special speaker from the Change Movement. Madam Colleague, you have the floor. I don't know if this is your first speech, I wish you success.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u182	No, it's not, but you can give me some more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u183	You have him - in introductory words - 'first'!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the day that came after yesterday, in the same place, with us protagonists. And the subject that today's day deals with is in time, in a common political pursuit and a common political concept, with yesterday's debate, the ultimate state. You will allow me to begin with one wish. I hope today that we will not live again what we have experienced yesterday, this particular stand up comedy show over a two-hour show, where not only were we not talking about the state at last, but we also had to suffer an absolutely non-institutional debate, apart from the point of view, deliberately and terribly, not only by sacrificing the issue and the substance on the altar of populism, but to the point of putting a eye on the keyhole, to grind up the unknown aspects of the personal and professional life of people who were either present or even absent. All of this on the altar of impressions and the competition of the government's two gladiators. So let us not, today, allow the same humiliation, not to be seen in the same work, not to leave poorer parliament, morally controlled and stripped politically. After all that this people have been through and this country must at last be taken care of, and we must also care about such matters. We therefore have a responsibility for the substance of politics, but also for the image of policies. So I come to the subject of today's debate. It is a process by voting on the bill that we too could not believe, a process that came with the introduction of dozens of articles at midnight. It is a bill that runs all the ministries. It has only been consulted in part. Thirty-four articles have never been uploaded on the platform of consultation, which, of course, you have retrospectively seen that it has raised a storm of protests among citizens and operators. It is a bill without the beginning, the middle and the end, without a coherent and specific structure, with plenty of articles pertaining to all the ministries. A normalization bill looked more like a bill than a bill from a fresh government that now comes, which has before it all the time to create. So it reminded us of the days of SYRIZA - ANEL when they were on a runway. What's the rush? It is rather tight, and this has certainly contributed to the fact that you do not consult the committees during the debate. I have heard the Minister say that the first time he heard from our Parliamentary representative about unconstitutionality. I think the Minister was often absent from the Chamber. Of course it did not adopt anything at all. But he didn't adopt anything important. The people came there, the wheelchair movement, the representatives - I will say it from the Step in plenary, Mr President, because we need to develop sensitivities and reflexes - and they have set six points. From all of the record, not one has been accepted. From what? From the wheelchair movement for which we are obliged - the contract and all the modalities that we have to do now - to adopt the relevant provisions by the end of the year. So on the basis of the facts, now. Let's go to your targeted communications, which I'll comment on first and foremost. We see in the news releases, newspapers, systics that the government has made a very big effort to highlight as the first topic of discussion the positive measures, referring to medicine, digital governance and thus trying to extinguish its image, putting aside the very big issues, the hot issues, such as 'CLOTHEN', the changes it brings and, of course, the asylum. What's he trying to do with it? He's trying to throw the ball in the crate, disorientate public opinion about the actual heavy legislative burden of the bill. And why is it heavy? Because all these initiatives and unprecedented peculiarities that he comes to legislate are a raw intervention by the government after the elections. That is the sign you must have before you, Minister. It's after the election. It has already been implemented and implemented by this 'Classhen' law - which we were the first to talk about, but you did not hear it - but we already have an election result, we already have persons, we have elected people, you have elected presidents of communities, you have elected mayors with minorities, and of course your agony begins, as I understand it, from northern Greece. And you are not in neutral time, but you are the government that will go in a few days to the vow of the new regional and municipal councils. What are you going to say to those who do not agree with your logic? I guess you're not going. And, of course, what I want to say is that the cyberdynamicity we have heard so much about - you had it brought up on an extremely important and highly attractive academic issue, in which one can say what one wants - now is no longer a theoretical political issue, but it is a matter of tangible importance, it is an issue in front of us that we have to deal with it, but in a way that you are now discovering. So what did you do? Since you could not do anything but what you said, that you would abolish the KLISTENH law by a provision and a law, immediately after the people gave you power, such as Mr Tsipras would abolish the two memoranda with an article in the House - and he was unable to do so - you have created a provision with which you have created partnerships. And what are you doing there? You have created agreements which were already in existence in the relevant article of legislation and you said, therefore, that we are making a wish - that is what you said, if you did not write it - which, Mr Minister, was like the wish of the Resurrection, but when fatality has happened. What's the difference? That your wish here is unbelievable, because she wishes a resurrection but does not believe in it. And I'm explaining. After the elections, with results and faces, the government puts down things, papers and pencils, and attempts to find a solution, starting from northern Greece. So she takes the election statements out of the drawer and sees what? What he said. And once he realizes what he said, he puts them right back in, because he realizes that you should abolish the "CLISTEN", at the same time changing the election result and the correlations of the recent elections, you can't. So it's like the memorials that they couldn't and wrote it down - you're the first part of the bill we're talking about today and the wish for partnerships. The wish of the unbelievable is because you know very well that this cannot be done. Your partnerships are an empty shirt, they are an air which I would say to the people, and some colleagues have said so during the committee. We say that it is a legislative product that the authoritative legal circles, but also the baroque-smoking self-government, consider it to be an orange-orange country's legislative product, and that is how they deal with it. No policy, no legal force and, unfortunately, no legislative misrepresentation without a political precedent. What's the New Democracy doing? He's barely marrying the orders, he's making a white marriage in simple words. The deeply conservative and definitively incapable of understanding the real reform in self-government New Democracy, the fact that it has always retired and voted against the major reforms that PASOK dared - all he trusted and changed local societies - simply cannot understand the political risk of progress. So, the self-evident and positive for us, especially in self-government, pursuit of programmatic consensus and party partnerships, unfortunately, you also turned it into a political validation, non-transparency and transaction tool, as you have absolutely no planning for convergence between the factions and so they can scatter you in a week from here and there. Because the municipal councillors, of course - you could not do that, so you kept it - retain their right to be differentiated, to complain, to go to other levels, to vote for whatever they want. So from one Sunday to the other you may suffer such damage that you can't imagine. We are therefore reintroducing our own proposal. This proposal also actually has the 'Greek Plan', which is what? It is our proposal for an inspiring and creative self-government, with scheduling and self-governmental conditions. It is undeniable, ladies and gentlemen, that SYRIZA's historic responsibility and the dissolutionist logic of 'CLISTHEN' are undeniable. You have used him, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, and you as a micropolitical tool. You've created a lot of trouble that you knew they'd come. You saw them. You didn't hear us. You have not respected the experience of the people of self-government, our parliamentarians, nor our leadership in our positions or our experience in legislation. You didn't respect anything at that time, so you had what happened to you after. Today, however, the dissolutionist logic of SYRIZA - ANEL is followed by the authoritarian and centralist way the New Democracy sees things. What's wrong with you? In fact, you can't hand over power. You cannot see the institutions as after you. You can't reform anything else. You can't decentralise. You cannot understand, you cannot feel politically, you cannot be inspired by the challenge of the day itself, without any dialogue, by the party discipline of your representatives. I saw them yesterday. What can I say about that? That the parties' representatives came from the institutions and said that "we agree and are in the positive direction of the bill" and left in the fifth minute. We couldn't ask them any questions. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] So ruthless questions ask you answers. Not all of what we have said, even the objection of unconstitutionalism, have been received. You can't even understand the logic. And politically, Mr Lovers told you before - and I only conclude - that at political level you have not been able to explain to us what the majority of the mayor has to do with the budget and the technical programme as regards what he gives the committees, the Economic Committee and the quality of life. That's not what you were able to explain. So the majority of the party by which the mayor was elected, as you say in the bill, does not lead to assurance of the infamous rulership. The real political content of the partnerships, therefore, the programming agreement was submitted by us, by the Change Movement, which we told you "did and now bring a proposal saying that we have a programme agreement on the extensions, we submit it to the consultative body that is the municipal council and that decides". Then you will have a political argument. Now you have absolutely nothing. As far as asylum is concerned, I would like to say two words. We have said our opinion, we have said it again and again to the committees and to the institutions and to Parliament, with a history that follows us. Because we have always believed and unnecessarily in the unreserved need to guarantee academic freedom in research and teaching, as you said, Minister - you have read them from our own law - as well as the free movement of ideas in higher education institutions, subject to the elimination of all kinds of violence and lawlessness within the premises. Where there's a problem like that, we don't close our eyes. We have to deal with it. I would remind you that we, in this context, adopted almost four decades ago, the framework law on IITs, No.1268/1982, and poured down the concept and real content of university asylum. In this context we legislated with Law 4009/2011, the Diamantopoulou Act, with a large majority, above 5/6 of the House. You voted then too. Of course, a common component of all the relevant laws, including those adopted by the New Democracy and SYRIZA, Law 4485/2017, was the inclusion of provisions providing for procedures for the intervention of the public power, the police, in the event of unlawful actions. But you went and did what? In the article, where the detail is hidden, in the dictionaries, in the paragraphs, in the paragraphs and in the parties, then in the wording of Article 64, and in particular in paragraph 3, where we continue to look at it, to hear your answer to the final statement, Minister, expressing hope at the moment from the step of the House. Honestly, I'm telling you with faith in seeing it. This post, therefore, of freedom, democracy and the specific area of the university, has not been respected by this provision. I told you yesterday, Minister, also with respect: 'Be careful, because you will leave it from your hands, but be careful where to give it. Note why there is exaggerated zeal many times and perhaps there you are experiencing very big problems." No one ensures that, in your legal form, we will not reach the completely opposite side of the state police rule within the university field in the name of preventive police action. You are a lawyer, you are a law-abiding lawyer, I am sure you do not want this, Minister, and you too, but you cannot. You cannot, for that reason, and you must adopt it in accordance with our proposal. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As far as the other provisions are concerned, we have tabled our proposals on digital policy and on other issues, waiting for the ministers to make a decision on them and on issues to which we have expressed fears, doubts if this digital governance is becoming a digital centralised state, which we will not be able to control and ultimately by simple bureaucracy, we are going to red tape. Also, as the President said, Mr President, you said well, Mr President, that we should not have a new show today. We are therefore tabling an amendment to 101, and not only are we saying that criteria must be laid down and incompatible, but that we are all in the same straight line. Clear words. Clear the forehead and gaze. Include everything. To include in the incompatibility the occupation and position of President, a Secretary of Parliamentary Party, and what is incompatible we consider politically not to be the case with these qualities. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] I'm finishing with my dear habit, which you will learn. I always put when I think or process something, a title. So I tried to put a title in this study of this bill. The first thing that came to my mind was that Mr. Tsipras' veteran mayors received them by Mr. Mitsotakis forcing them into a white marriage. And no matter how much the future lymphs reacted, unfortunately the "law and order" office was the one that survived. But at the end of the day this would be a very small one, which would bring down very much both Parliament's role and our contribution to public dialogue. That is why I finally chose a National Assembly: 'Everyone believes what he understands'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u185	Thank you too, my colleague. Mr. Delis from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u186	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, for over a year now and three days now in the House, on the occasion of the multi-legislative broom of the New Democracy, which is also being discussed as an urgent one, this suffocating process tends to be permanent in the Greek Parliament. All this time, then, the needle of the confrontation of the New Democracy and SYRIZA is stuck at the exact same point in the electoral system of local elections. "Government" cries New Democracy, "democracy" SYRIZA answers. Their struggle is, of course, only for the electoral system, by which in the recent local elections the seats of municipal and regional councils were distributed in a proportionate manner. So let us see the essence of this argument, but also of what this argument does not refer to. The new Republic therefore, by means of the "switching" of the majority of the CEDE and HSPE, discovers a problem of the cyberdynamicity of the municipalities, up to their dissolution and with a number of provisions of the draft law, attempts to restore, as it says, this ruleability by strengthening, in particular, the mayor's party to a number of municipal administration bodies, but at the expense of the municipal council. It is not enough that the blocking of the blocking of the mayor, on the basis of which it is formed and the administrative system of the municipality, is not enough that the mayor's party is arbitrarily granted an absolute majority in municipal management bodies such as the Economic Commission, the Quality of Life Commission and legal persons, but that a number of responsibilities have now been transferred to them, which have been the responsibility of the municipal council, such as the annual planning of recruitment of personnel, for example, or the appeal or not of the municipality in legal proceedings. Here it is characteristic that it removes the right from the municipalities to decide on a compromise or abrogation of the trial on the current wage claims of workers. So you actually support the moratorium cuts or the possibility of debt and surcharges being removed - we know how crucial this is for the people's families who live in poverty - because this also leaves the city council and goes to the economic committee. Also, it is the facilitator of grandeurs, because they can only be those who owe more than EUR 150,000 - they do not owe this money to people's families - or to the municipality or the granting of municipal facilities and equipment, the imposition of a price for all kinds of municipal provision and a number of others. All these powers therefore leave the elected municipal council and go to the economic committee of the fake majority. Well, that's the rulership you don't say. Armoring anti-population policy, yes. But there is, and all the time, you know. See what is envisaged for the process of drawing up and voting for the technical programme and for the budget of a municipality. Yes, but in order to measure a negative vote on all these issues, the disputed party should first have tabled an integrated counter-proposal for the budget, taxes and charges, which this comprehensive counter-proposal must also have the agreement of the municipality's technical and economic service and of course comply with the recommendations of the Ministry of the Interior. One of them is missing, the negative vote is deemed void, not counted. In other words, in order to understand, the right to disagree is recognised, but under such conditions that actually cancel it. Who opened the New Democracy's eyes to do all this? SYRIZA with his "KLITHENI" law, when establishing exactly the same unacceptable, anti-democratic procedure in the technical programme for the project and by code for the budget, so SYRIZA does not "kitch" for that reason, so he probably did not include these articles in his anti-constitutional plea just now. In short, however, the question of the cybernicality of the municipalities is of course not raised here, and the crying of the New Democracy for the alleged integrity of the municipalities is not based, you know, as in the Memorandum Laws - which all of us are in force and have ended the Memorandums - there are all those security differences - and there are too many of them - with the first and best of them, the Economic Observatory, which guarantees and guarantees their governmentality, i.e. the anti-population function of the municipality with the suffocating financial control and all that regardless of the electoral system. Look at this: The analogous, for which of course we as a JRC are firmly in favour of the municipalities and regions, SYRIZA brought it into squeeze and collage, leaving the election of the mayors and regionals out of proportion. This is where the New Democracy runs to get these articles. It can't be today, you know, SYRIZA pretending to be the prosecutor of the mayoral model. But “CLINEN” is not just an election system. It is much more, of course, because, as the "KALIKRATS" or the "KOLITRIA" of PASOK, the "KLITHENIS" then came to better adapt the municipalities to the new needs of capitalist development and this objective is common to all urban parties and when the "CLISTENS" law was passed and now of course. So, with the exception of the electoral system in all its basic 'KLITHEN', in the essentials to the people, all urban parties agree. They agree with the view to the business features of the municipalities brought by KLITHENIS, causing them to operate either as self-sufficient companies by even more supplying the services they provide to the people, or with all kinds of partnerships, of course with business groups. They agree with all the urban parties with the main aim of "CLITHENI", their main revenues for municipalities to draw them directly from the pockets of their citizens, the logic of reciprocity, and the state grant to come to a mere supplementary aid, only as necessary, until the budgets of the municipalities are balanced, are "balanced" as they say. This is where the New Democracy comes and increases with the transfer of HNVIA to the municipalities. All urban parties agree, which is why there is the possibility, not to abolish 'CLISTEN', but to amend it. They agree with the arrangements concerning the so-called ‘evaluation’ of the real estate of the ATTs, which opens the way for so-called ‘investors’ to exploit any municipal property in the long term and on robbery terms. That is why, of course, we say that all this fuss about the integrity of the municipalities is a controversy that shows the tree to hide the forest, but perhaps an opportunity for the New Democracy to gather all its own elected councillors to the municipalities and regions, who have recently descended as independents. To go now to Article 64 on the abolition of asylum at universities. Listen to the title that they put in the bill: "EIO, academic freedoms, upgrade the quality of the academic environment". How much hypocrisy can it fit into so few words? Upgrade the quality of the academic environment with the consistent underfunding of university institutions, leading them to operate on their limits, with huge shortages in staff and infrastructures? Upgrade the quality of the academic environment by the lack of student care that exposes the cost of study for the children of poor people's families? A pass you went to give the hosts the students of the tourist schools in Rhodes and Crete and you took this back. Article 74 of the consultation procedure does not exist in this bill and one minister has not answered us about it yet. And you're talking about upgrading studies, upgrading the quality of the academic environment by categorizing and depreciating the degrees, by degrading undergraduating the undergraduate curriculum, while the highly expensive postgraduate subjects fill up the shelves of the university market? You see, SYRIZA and the Gavroglou law have taken care of this. What kind of upgrade will this be and for whom, please? Is it about the business groups, which have officially taken a stadium at universities, who now define the curriculum and the orientation of their research programs, their profits, of course, and not their mother's soul? And you're serious? Will these business groups, buried in universities, allow academic freedoms and free movement of ideas? Who? Those whose democracy and their freedom stops outside the gates of their factories and in their ghettos forbidden any trade union activity, other than employers? Those who asked SYRIZA to put other obstacles to the right of strike and he with New Democracy gave it to them on the plate? Will all of these guarantee free movement of ideas and access to knowledge? Are we going crazy? Yeah, if they serve their profits. Or does the upgrade concern the presence of NATO, the people's killer, whose warships are already enchanting the universities and contaminating the student's consciences with their rotten imperialist values? This, of course, which is constantly upgraded, apart from the groups, is the same business function of universities now and at such a university - a public limited company, smuggled into the arms of the large public limited companies, which protects the right of students to discuss, collectively decide and organize their struggle, yes, for their modern needs in education, work and life. The only asylum that will be recognised from now on in universities will be asylum for the business of capitalist profits. And within such a university, cemetery silence is required to apply, without obstacles, that policy, which promotes business activity in the institutions, strengthens the categorisation of diplomas, breaks the prospects of youth, which is currently struggling to complete its studies in order to find a satisfactory job. Nor, of course, is it accidental that the voices against asylum have strengthened since 1999 and been given. It is reasonable, then, that this notorious declaration of Bologna comes out, a European Union station decision on university entrepreneurship and their total tradition in big capital, and that entrepreneurship, not only has it never been questioned, but has the previous government of SYRIZA served it with passion. But you also had to see a pretext for university asylum negligents. It's hard, you'll tell me. They have been offered this for years with the scoop, the well-known strangers and some supposedly anti-powered, as well as the action of various gangs, which have nothing to do with the university institutions and which all of them - and you know them very well - could be dealt with even in the current context if there were such a will. As for crime, everyone knows that organised crime acts not only around or within the institutions, but also almost undisturbed in neighborhoods of Athens, Attica, Thessaloniki, and there are no asylums there, as is the trade in drug death everywhere, while the New Democracy, SYRIZA and KINAL are collaborators in the cultivation of tolerance to drugs, so also infiltration into universities. It is characteristic that together all of these voted for supervised use sites, which entangle users, prevent their efforts to disarm and it has been shown that in these supervised use sites they usually uncover new dishes. In fact, the conclusion of the Panel of Friday, set up by SYRIZA, to effectively process the further restriction of asylum, of course, raised the question of setting up such sites even within university institutions. In Thessaloniki, the center of administration of methadone, for example AHEPA, is located literally within the university. And we arrived today, New Democracy to promote the abolition of asylum along with KINAL, but also the essential agreement of current MPs and other SYRIZA officials, who, if we are not mistaken in 2011 as PASOK MPs, had then passed the provision of the law of Ms Diamantopoulou that abolished the asylum. In fact, you are going to legislate for the abolition of asylum, a dalla summer, just as all the previous governments did when they went through the unpopular restructuring in education in times when schools and universities were closed. But look, neither suppression nor any rules on asylum can prevent the organised student movement when it gathers forces and demands the modern needs of students. Besides, the asylum was not given by any government. It was never a given one. It has only been conquered by the struggles for the struggles and as young people have to give - and they will give, we are sure - new struggles to defend it as an asylum for the people's movement. This is the real content of asylum, and this is what students' associations, university workers and university teachers can defend, and those who, after all, did not succumb to market sirens, defend the labour movement as a whole. Except that can only be done through the struggle that calls for the modern needs of the people and youth to be met in education, work and life. The KKE and the Communist Youth of Greece with all our powers will be at the forefront of this struggle to strengthen the collective and organized claim of youth and of course meet with the struggle of the popular labour movement. Already the forehead of students has begun this race and today at 19.00' is protesting outside the House to withdraw the infamous article that abolishes the asylum. In conclusion, we want to state that the JRC will submit a request for a roll-call vote on both the principle of the bill and on Article 64 on asylum, unless, of course, you withdraw it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, too. I would ask you to be more careful with your time. I call to Stepma Mr. Booba from Greek Solution. You have the floor for 15 minutes, Mr. President. Try to be consistent with time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Madam President. I'll try to manage the time. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, we are the only party that comes from the region. We have specific proposals and positions for what is called self-government. I'm going to the articles because today we're going to score and vote for a school. Self-government is a school that gives us the stimulus to deal with commons, to become what Aristotle said: a social being. If this school doesn't work properly or if we handle it, then don't ask ourselves why young people don't want to do politics. What do I mean? The articles you want to legislate, especially the first six, are the ones that give a great power to the mayor. There is a risk that it will be converted into an authoritarian mayor of "Creon". Of course, the law is surely that the majority of the city must be dominated. Once you give powers to the committees surrounding the mayor, things are confused, because what we call a municipal council will have no reason, prestige and power for some key decisions. How, then, will we give the stimulus to young people who want to deal with commons, to be politicised, rather than to party, once we deprive them of self-government as self-government and turn it into heterosy? We, as a Greek Solution, speeding up and decoding some problems of self-government, will mention you and what you do not do for self-government, ladies and gentlemen. I myself and the party president, Kyriakos Velopoulos, from the second degree of self-government, from the Region of Central Macedonia, and we have gained experience of how the regions operate. First of all, you do not put the first and second degrees of cooperation into another plan, because they must be transporting containers for the sake of the place. It is mentioned in Article 2 and 3 that the Economic Commission will have a great strength where it will, in fact, decide whether a matter is of major importance to come to the municipal council. In other words, it will not actually decide the municipal council on the problems of the local area. You refer to Article 5 in the Committee on Quality of Life that it alone will decide on the circulation of vehicles. I mean, he won't even come to the city council. The quality of life is definitely related to the daily lives of the citizens. Of course, the traffic of vehicles is a big problem, because, unfortunately, as a copy of Athens and other Greek cities, they do not have a retardation plan. But if the people involved do not speak, such as the people who are traveling taxi, the buses, the people who cannot move, i.e. the operators themselves, will judge a five-member, seven-member, eight-member quality of life for how to make transport changes in a city? I've experienced it in my town and there are huge problems, as in all the Greek cities. As the Municipality of Athenians, Serres, Trikkanes, Ioannites, Thessalonians, it means that the municipality is a composition of citizens, it is a set of people, it is a living cell, it is a living organism. We cannot neglect him as an inappropriate instrument, which will serve the Athenian model, the central political scene. So we need to be careful. We, our party, had no candidate in self-government. You think we couldn't or no proposals were made? However, we do not think that it should be prepared to be a bulwark, a bulwark of self-government, in order to be partisan, to entangle people who want to deal with the public. You say that the municipalities will decide on the licensing of the kiosks, as if the kiosks were going to decide. The neighborhood's companion, the neighborhood's profession, it's complicated, guys! It's no offshore. It's hard to burn. Will the municipalities decide? On what criteria will the municipalities decide? You say that the presidents of local communities will be simply rapporteurs for the self-reliable resources that self-government needs. Do you want a municipality of a person as a store? Already the citizens are expressing their displeasure at the moment, because you have done great, ignorant municipalities and do not have their man, their president, the one they consider capable of solving the problems of the village, the community. And you make him a waterbird? Do you get him a porter to run a standard? You're saying you're in contrast to the second call. The second poll, however, has given more votes to the village’s head, the residents want. If that's possible! Is it democratic? Let's go to the districts. You have not put one point in the distinct roles of the decentralised and elected region. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, and the remaining Members of the New Democracy Parliament who will be invited to vote as usual by a majority and democratic terms - I do not doubt - on this bill. Yesterday the President said that there was no political stature and soap to say 'drink Hora'. But today, with this law, you're plunging local self-government. You sink her, ladies and gentlemen. Because today there are spatial and environmental issues. We've discovered such issues with Velopoulos. I'll give you an example. The President himself discovered that the "EL DORADO", which you will shortly bring as an investment in Skouria, was on an environmental committee in the region as a auditor and controlled! And if a Velopoulos did not discover this, he would go to decentralized and get a signature, "turn through the engagement" i.e... You know what's going on? If a topic overcomes the trimester, it goes to decentralized, it gets signature and all honey - milk! Are these the regions? That's how it works? Distinguished roles in the hereditary and decentralised region! The Region of Central Macedonia two years ago took a million euros to make road crossings. What do I mean? You're putting articles, you're putting paragraphs, but you're not talking about self-resources. Why don't you come out and say that we want to bring a regional decentralisation and we now give 1% of VAT to the municipalities, we give money from the traffic charges, where is the money, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and SYRIZA, from the traffic charges? You gave it to self-government? Where's the so-called beer tax? It had promised that the municipalities and regions - mainly the municipalities, the first degree - will receive beer tax from drinks. It's never been implemented. A wild bear doesn't dance. But, as power is structured and the whole political system does not want a party to come from the region, so you do not want to give the mayors power. We, the mayors, do not want them party persuasive organs, get a call from the party and do what the party wants, because he will be afraid that the local organization will not collect signatures to indicate him as head. So what are you doing here? You are restricting the power of self-government, making it unsatisfactory, because if you assign social power and economic power, what will happen, will the carpet be gone under the MPs? Is there going to be a conversation if there's going to be a check on the forty-fives? For the partitioning of public works, and how is this lashverism done? I agree that the municipalities are not governed by a mere analogue, but by the delegation of power in the 2/3 mayor of arrogant power, and possibly "Cretan" a municipality cannot be run. It cannot, for the simple reason that I mentioned, on the basis of the prestige and grievance you give the committees and you are urging the "church of the municipality" of the composition of citizens, the whole of people who want to discuss some issues of substance within the municipal councils. We could say a number of things. I want to go to the red tape. Know - how well, but I see the citizen again - and we see it as a Greek Solution - running from signature to signature. You know, signatures justify positions. He tells you, since I got a seat, I have to sign. The system always wants you to owe it, not waste it. The man who has the ability to die is freely thinking. He who owes himself is a hostage, a commitment to a European political and economic system, if you like, because Europe too if we speak as the Coal and Steel Union he has started to change and he has not changed. Economic union is not a union of societies. What do we say there? Will there be participatory digital democracy, which is on our programme for the citizen, or will it create a hydro-headed state "from Anna to Kaiafa" through high-tech systems? Where are they, gentlemen, a file through computers integrated for businessmen? What they're asking for in industrial chambers, the Gemini? Is he referring in? Is it going to be implemented? Where is a register of farmers for pure-blooded farmers? That's not what he's talking about either. Because there's a lot of issues before we go to the asylum, we're going to go a little bit to the EPPY. There's a lot of doctors in here, but here needs to be surgery with Mercedes incision type. You know, the greatest operation of the human body is not the open heart, it's the hepatectomy. Fortunately, the liver is the only organ that regenerates. So you can now make some changes if you want to reborne what is called regional decentralisation. Let me remind you, gentlemen, that at the government of Costa Karamanlis, you were talking about the Ministry of Rural Development going to Larissa to be on the runway and to be in its natural place. The Larissans are waiting. They're still waiting. We just remind it. Let's go to EEA. You're saying in here that EOPY can move. What will he say 'can'? According to the beam? In his judgment? For a man who has multiple sclerosis, for kidney patients, for type I or type II diabetics who are waiting for an insulin extraction pump or for cancer patients? It will be required, gentlemen, to exercise the legal political and social sensitivity to people who need their medicines. We don't play with words, but words matter. From a wrong word, it changes the whole meaning. There, then, we as Greek Solution say that EOPY is obliged to deal with these medicines and you want to tell us their origin. It'll be genuine, will it be generic? Where will they come from, because a lot of them can be heard about the pharmaceutical industries. I listened carefully yesterday to the Minister responsible saying that penalties for archipelagos will be increased. With them. I did not hear Mr Mitsotakis' suggestion saying about the emergence of archaeological monuments and ecclesiastical tourism. I only heard about an extension of the Archaeological Museum and a little later on about the ICU. Other words to be loved. And I ask: do we agree with the sentences? It says here, spending 110 thousand euros from the creation of the Archaeological Resources and Expropriations Fund. I also hope Amphipolis will go to expropriation to visit the monument. But listen, Minister, you said about the archipelagos: I fear that if you infiltrate, you will find yourself in a bad way to high-ranking persons involved. Why do you know what has happened to the archaocaust and many big archaics? They took findings, they took them to Vienna, they took them to Munich, to the auction houses, they were auctioned, they took papers with bogey and signature, and today they are possessing various archaeological findings and they are legal. I mean, it's happened, come see it. With you, however, as to the archaics, to preserve our treasure. Before I go to the asylum, I want to go to tourism. What are you talking about? With regard to tourism, the increase in the number of members of the Board of Directors is noted. the National Tourism Organisation, of the EOT. We made a proposal and the president said: Hotels, which will have Greek products in breakfast - breakfast, lunch, say it as you like - will have another tax. Those who will be employed in tourist facilities with the black and insecure work and the "all inclusive" that do not contribute to the local economy, a word is not said for our heavy tourism industry. I want us to go to Article 95, because you mind the people telling us all our traitors without exception. It will say there that we are insulting the country's international status. You go ahead, open the gates with the border, bring you some thoughts, anything, with the neighbors, and don't want to be called traitors. It's a heavy conversation, an unspeakable conversation. But you can't take it off because it's in the Greek dictionary. And we glean, we hear, we decode what the world says. And I'm going to the asylum, to the little bit of time I have. Listen, Asylum - as we say. It's oasis of principles, values, of democratic freedom. A great Argentine writer said freedom wanted tebo. It can't be freedom of general and vague. She wants her rhythm. Gentlemen of the JRC, we're nobody's ally. We are allies with the Greek people. We are pragmatically applauding the situation which currently prevails in the university. I respect your constant ideological rally as a single-century labour party, but we cannot, at the moment, tolerate - first of all, we say, of course, the protection of asylum, it is also protected by the Constitution - and we are voting on provisions which undermine what is called 'university education'. We don't want students only with the'responsibility'. We want students with acute critical thinking, we want free will and minds. And we want teachers at the universities. So that's where we don't have the dictatorship syndrome. Some things have to get into a boldness. How do we do it? Universities are spaces of ideas. They're research, thought, and they're lactating characters. We can't afford the students right now to have them scared of many acts that are taking place in the universities. And, to God, we don't think the police are going in for flea. But a teacher cannot be afraid, a student who is a child of a violator or a student cannot be released into universities at night. Somehow we need to see the situation realistically. I would also like to go to the Competition Committee. You know, the term 'competition' is not the right one, but it takes you. For you are competing with each other and with them 'for our own children'. We don't have anything with Mrs. Thanou. But you cannot be fans of democracy and hypocrites, gentlemen of the New Democracy, when you talk about retrospective force of the law. This has not even been done in the totalitarian regimes! Competition Commission and you are competing. The Italians have a proverb and they say: 'la joia si trova all' altra riva'. You believe, in other words, that if you go to the opposite bank of the river, you will find joy. It's not like that. And Mr. Zagoritis, who's a friend offensive - who I have nothing with face - is in charge of the Transparency Authority. So, the mentors that you and you used to put together, are now messing with you? With retroactive power? Well, that's where people know what they say? You want to clean up your own children. And that is what concerns us with the whole situation. So as far as the bill is concerned, I would like you to pay very close attention to what is called'regional self-government'. If self-government has no money to stand by, there will always be severances of public works, and you can't be evangelizing that if a state does not send blood to all parts of its body - the body called Greece - can't stand. So watch out for the school of government, for young people to deal with commons, as the first grade is a basic foundation for education, they must love it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The President of the Greek Solution, Mr Velopoulos, has the floor for twelve minutes and I would ask him to keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u190	Always, Madam President. We're not overreacting. It's just New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin with something that concerns the rapporteur of the New Democracy, because he has spoken about laws and that this is not a political issue. I'll insist. All our life issues in Aristotle are political, not legal, understand it. Legislation based on your policy. It's just stuff. If people do not understand the concepts and terms, I will tell them what Lao Ce said: "As the law multiplys, the illegals multiply." I mean, at some point we need to figure out what's going on around us. What bothers me very much about Ms Thanos and I read it today on your TV, on SKAI - because your television is SKAI, all day long we see the New Democracy parade from there, above it must say 'SCAI - NW TV' - is the following: 'Activities of the Parliament's Scientific Service for the Elimination of Thanos: The Government's provision is against decisions by the European Court of Justice and a European Council directive, says the agency.' Your channel is, gentlemen, not the House, the New Democracy, the SCA. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I'm saying this to understand at some point that you can't play with the laws, we can't play with legality, we don't have a life getting a tire called the law and pull it out, like that. It can't be done. You want to change all of them? All of you, with you. But the Zagorat's gone, and the rest of them, too. Why Mrs. Thanou? I'll tell you. You feel a bitterness, because there was the story of "NOVARTIS", I understand it. You feel it in your skin. But to be honest with politics, you have to take them all out. Not one. Because here you're showing reinsurance, because you might be right, you might even be wrong. I do not know what is going on and I will not be a judge for the history of NOVARTIS. I understand that you are denouncing Mrs Thanano for some things. All right, so you want to be honest? Everybody go away, not one. Because that's how a problem arises. European law is above Greek, unfortunately, I said it before. Because you're talking about a constitution in here. I hear my friend, Mr. Javarra, because he has a nice reason. You know, when you listen to a lawyer, you understand the profession, son, it's their own cuts, they speak bicolabis, they speak legally, what to do now? And they begin to "Article 1, Article 2 of the Constitution, the one philosopher," to confuse the world. Why is Javaras doing this? I'll tell you, I don't have anything with the man. The truth is true, or you'll take them all out or nobody. It's over! Because European law is above Greek. We will have problems along the way, and we will be dealing with them anyway, for Mrs Thanos. I've asked a lot of questions and you're not answering them. Yesterday the Prime Minister came here and lied once again. He swept away, said with a government arrogance, because he is now Prime Minister, that we have already heard you and made amendments. So I saw the changes of the plan in the final state. Of the forty-one points of the changes, twenty-eight relate to corrections of typographical points, letters, eleven points concern changes, additions to paragraphs little with the words 'and, plus, but not least', and the other two states 'the term 'public servant' and 'public servant'. Are these the changes you made to the bill? They made proposals to you and the SYRIZA and the JRC, and we made proposals, and we made proposals today. You don't hear anything! It's what I was saying, we don't have a Prime Minister, we have a god! The New Democracy and the Prime Minister are God, finally! It's not like that, gentlemen. When you talk about democracy and when we speak to the Greek people, you will listen to them all. In the end, to say it very raw, 40% got, 60% are all the rest. I didn't understand that! We won't hear 60%, will we only hear 40%? Well, let's go seriously now. If we wanted to solve the problem of the country, we would have done a constitutional court for decades. This morning was a pragmy. One-and-a-half hour, we were talking about satisfying our party clientele, our voters, fighting - and well - between us with fire. Ashes! Because we all know the majority here decides. It's so democratic that 40% decides. That's what the legislator says, so says the Constitution, I don't know who did it. Make a constitutional court see how many amendments will pass through here at night and how many illegal laws will pass. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] A constitutional court! Will someone dare? At some point we have to do this to end this whole story. So let's go to something very important that Solon said: "When religion and laws are implemented properly, they are beneficial. When mistakes are made, they are wrong." Minister, and all that you brought - believe me - is wrong. It's wrong from top to bottom and I'll prove it to you as much as time allows me. To tell my sympathy, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, whom I appreciate and is not personal, that I want to leave him in his own loneliness, 1917. He lives in the 20th century. We live in the 21st century. Let us not be misled about asylum, because we can argue. We do not live in a society where only angels of the Lord circulate in the university, traffic and drug traffickers, traffic and people who traffic. And with a slightness, I'll tell Mr. Polakis who said about the blockade. The impediment, Mr. Polakis, is three ENPIAs. Three ERVIA! The Greeks pay EUR 3.2 billion a year. Only the hindrance is 9 to 12 billion. If the embargo is hit, we will not pay for three years and Mr Mitsotakis will not be fooled by 30%, 20%, 15% horizontal, vertically, tax reduction. Why don't we hit the curfew?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u191	Let's hit it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u192	And let me tell you differently. Do you want us to make a reasonable proposal, Mr. Polakis? Let's get out of here now. There is a transitional period of two years or one year. To clean up the universities, to finish this story, to keep the arsonists, the hoodmen, the motorcycles, the pimplers. Is that a dialogue? Can I have a debate with bats? Jesus Christ and Mary, that is! If we have a bat dialogue, we're going to cave age. We're not going to cave age or to the 20th century. We will go to the 21st century, we will become a European state, but in everything. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It can't be done. So let's go to the bill. There was a change in the election result here. It's over and out. You are changing the election result. The Mayor of Thessaloniki 16% didn't get it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u193	14%.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u194	14%, you cut the VAT if you want, I have no problem. 14%, 13%, 16%. With 16% you give him authoritarian powers, you give him royal powers, you give him dictatorial powers and the church of the municipality - the municipal council, i.e. - takes the margin. Is that a democracy, gentlemen? Oh, no. And I'll say it raw. If it were all the district managers and mayors SYRIZA, you wouldn't do that. You'd leave it a mess. Why? You put laws, legislate on the basis of your party and political instincts and not on the basis of common good. That is the problem, and that is what I personally object. Now listen, Article 19: Compliance, says, under personal data rules, a European Union directive since 2016. We'll pay $2.5 million for the personal data. Article 20: A service shall be structured in four different sections for a simple procedure. Time-consuming and cost-benefiting. Yesterday you were fighting bureaucracy, as you were telling us here - Mr Mitsotakis, who is also a ligature and told us that you are finishing bureaucracy - you are hitting on it. "We're done," he says. And now in this particular article, from 21 to 24, a service breaks into two pieces, one of which in other four, of which four each in four. Christ and God bless you! Look at it! Look it up! So you cannot talk to me about bureaucracy when you did me four times sixteen, fourteen, seventeen! That's not how it works. And let me speak as business manager and manager of my business, because I know what bureaucracy means, what "do it", "do it", "do it" and nobody does it. I'm telling you right now. You'll find them in front of you. Article 33: Place for embossment of forms shall be provided. Since we're saying you're going to digitalise the situation, are we talking about embossing papers? Take a look at it. We're gonna put in employees to enclose files? Article 60: It abolishes, says, the Greek Space Station of the Pope - where is the spaceman Mr. Pappas, who would send us all into space? - and make him, he says, the Greek Space Center. Christ and God bless you! Listen to what you're doing now! You baptize the fish meat to say you're doing something. I don't know. You must be possessed by a papophobia. As we call Greek-phobia, racism, etc., we have Papafobism. We're changing the name, we're doing something else. We baptized it differently. Hey, that's not politics, gentlemen! That's not politics. That is - I am honestly going to say - tragedy, not to say pragmatism. It's just that story that's whining. You have more, that's not all. Article 84. The story of PAOK President. You made them a boxer's bag. You told them things. "You got it, you did it. You have the 'OPEN' channel yours, etc. You come here today and you do what you, as a businessman, Mr Theodorikos, and I disagreed at first, but it is justified. He tells you, "I got a company. You begged me. Others do. You swear them. Now you repeat it, but all milk.” Well, it can't be. Or before you were wrong with SYRIZA or now you're wrong. Decide when you're wrong. Article 95. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, there are no dirty words. There are dirty brains. The word'suspension' must not be deleted. So, tomorrow morning if Mr. Mitsotakis goes and signs a consideration in the Aegean and gives Cyprus to the Turks? It is where it says "insults of the country's international situation" is replaced". Now listen to what is nice 'insults of the country's international situation'. As the troika became 'institutions', as the institutions became 'troika'. His well-known tales of speaking, changing meanings, so that the Greek people don't understand what I'm doing. You're making a mistake. As long as there is the Greek Solution, it will shout "whoever grants national right and national sovereignty, is a traitor!". It's the Greek dictionary, not me. The Greek language says so. We have reached the point of changing concepts and terms. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Now we're going to the asylum articles. Victor Hugo said: "Where he opens a school, closes a prison." Today, however, universities have become prisons. Locks from the outside, padlocks, bars closed, through the Pakistani, Afghan - and I don't know who else - and the Greek smuggler selling the products, selling the drugs, and when someone goes, they're terrified, afraid. These in a favoured state must be cut once and for all. These are finished in Europe and in America. In Canada, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA and the JRC, there is the university police. You know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u195	Safeguard.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u196	Listen, gentlemen, in Germany, you must have a special card as a student because I was there. That's what you need to stop at last. You live in the age of the 20th century. We live in the twenty-first century. Our children will have treatment, they will have education, they will have education. Do you want to politicize them? Make political education courses in high school, high school and high school. Don't make them partisan and brain-footed people. You make them a KKE, a Greek Solution, a New Democracy, beat up on each other. They're having a party and they beat each other up. Is that discipline? Is that a dialogue? You're wrong. If you want to honor democracy and dialogue, the orders must leave the universities. The party orders have to go. It is also a question of political and party policy. It's different things. Plato said so too. I'm not saying that. Separate yourself. Don’t make them fences and fences inside the university, beat each other up. This is a disgrace. Greece alone occurs. And at the end of the day, I'll say it differently. Who's afraid of the police? I said it before. Just the criminal. Why are you afraid of the police? Because we had a seven-year-old, a junta, must be afraid of the one who was three years old then the junta? The junta came because democracy did not give the result it should. That's what we all remember. This is how the junta came from the bad, unfortunately, handling of the policies of that time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u197	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u198	The junta will never come again, Mr. Polakis. But we still have no democracy with cloaks and committees. Let's be clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u199	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u200	I say what's going on. If you don't want to understand, that's okay. Listen, Mr. Polakis, let me close here. You talked about occupations. You're proud to have taken possessions. If I'm not mistaken, in 1991 we had a democracy, Mr. Theodoriko. Weren't we a republic? Democratic Republican Republic. What do we need the conquests? I didn't get it. Why should a building be occupied by some solidarity? Why should the 50, 100 and the other six hundred enter Philosophy and law school and occupy the space? Where's democracy? We must not be proud of the occupations. We must, unfortunately, be unhappy that occupations are allowed in a European country in 2019. Another dialogue and more authoritarianism. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Of course, because you're a conquest fan, I don't want to say more. I'll stop there. Those who have carefully studied the way in which people are governed must be convinced that "the fate of the nations depends on the education of the young". Aristotle! Just stuff. Open the ancient Greek secretariat a little. Don't just look at Marx, don't look at Lenin and Trotsky. Good, good, better, but we have the ancient Greek philosophers who spoke about them before us. But we use foreigners and not Greeks. In conclusion, I would like to table an amendment on asylum. And I want, Minister, to see this amendment which speaks of stricter penalties being implemented. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I close with one question: Police get in, Mr. Theodorikos, and catchs five motorists who have fifty molotovs, ten bats and six swords for swords for swords. He's arresting them. He's pulling them out. He's taking them to the police station. It's a crime attack. They're coming out. The next day they go back in, and it gets the same. They're coming back in, they're coming out again. That's what happens every day. So we're going to make the police a tour agency. It will be called 'Police Tours'. So if you want to prevent and know that he will have a problem if he repeats it, you have to change the legislation. There must be strict penalties for the second or third time so that they never do so again. To know he'll have what we call the dragon's law on the head. It's just things. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I have two documents in front of me, which I shall be tabling. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The first document concerns the company ‘PHILIPS’. Sells iron and writes in "country of origin: Macedonia". The other is from the Turkish newspaper 'YENI SAFAK', Minister. Wait for September a declaration from the Turkish side of the EOZ. Turkey will be proclaimed in September. It will determine EEZ in the Mediterranean. He has designated the Black Sea. If an EEZ is established on the basis of the Kastelorizo which excludes it, the hurricane will start in September. Please very much, I appeal to save what's left. Specify the EOZ. Let's all agree together. It's a national matter. It's not about us, it's not about you. Our children and grandchildren are ours. Specify an EEZ so the Turks can finally shut up what they say, stop, silence, because the challenges have a limit. Do AEZ and we will be the best parliament that has ever passed through Parliament, in Greek in particular, Turkey. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u201	Mr Panagiotis Theodorikos has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, just a month ago, the Greek people gave a strong mandate to rule the place in Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy. His choice is, in my view, linked to the demands and need of the Greeks to move forward with growth, security and service for the citizens through the fulfilment of basic social needs, such as education and health. In our view, self-government in meeting these objectives and this policy is of special importance. It is also an institution that has played a positive and creative role in the development of the country and in social cohesion over the years. It is an area that has really justified efforts to cooperate, converging and unified work to address local problems. The debate that has taken place over the last two days, but also the entire public debate on the media around today's bill has brought the real issue to the surface. We have a completely different concept of what self-government we want. The self-government New Democracy wants is a self-government that solves problems, is effective, has its own contribution to the economic development of the country, cooperates with healthy entrepreneurship and attracts investment. In this way, it contributes to strengthening employment, addressing the very acute problem of unemployment and improving the quality of life and social cohesion. So in our understanding we need a self-government that takes decisions, is dynamic and solves problems. In the conception of the political party of the SYRIZA, the SYRIZA, self-government is an experiment of the ideas of SYRIZA's masters, the irresponsibility and the extremism that they did not hesitate to show in Greek political life in the previous years, seriously harming the Greek people. SYRIZA wants a self-government of eternal dialogue, negotiations, resolutions and arrangements for smaller or larger interests and customer relations. His rapporteur has falsely told us that the dilemma is cybercracy or democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u203	You put the dilemma on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u204	The dilemma shall be cybernical or dissolution of the ATTs. That's the reality. The ideas with which you moved to the area of self-government led to infinitely good phrases and logically the past four to five years, more typically, that antimonyians know better how to collect garbage than others. But what you have done, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, in the past five years, with a great example of the Attica region, is to deliver us a time bomb in the Attica basin, where half the Greek population resides, where it is well known that the facilities of the landfill site in the Rainbow are sufficient by the end of this year, with official documents of the link that manages this site. These are the results of your own conception of self-government. So you thought, in the context of its strategy to maintain power, how you will use this space as well, because your classical, continuous and stable strategy is to work on your institutions, it is your famous words that "if you do not put four to five prisons, you will not keep in power". But the Greek people took you out of power with their vote. This is what you thought of in the field of local government, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. You established the simple analogue to lead things into chaotic situations. Ladies and gentlemen of the Communist Party, you will allow me to tell you that with the system that we are bringing today, in order to correct the problem with the majority in municipal committees, in the economic committee and in the other committees of the municipality, there have been too many mayors in previous years, because this has been the case for years. All the years of postpopulation were the case and many mayors - members of the Communist Party were distinguished in this area by administering this system. Then it was good? And now that the New Democracy is bringing this back to work, so that the municipalities and regions can function satisfactorily? In our view, it is a prerequisite for things to function satisfactorily. This option of today's Officership at the time when it was government was made for a simple reason, because she knew very well that her powers in self-government are minimal, because SYRIZA was never able to become a real party that had roots in the area of self-government. The results of the last self-government elections are not random. That is where two self-government policies were confronted. And the result is that there is no SYRIZA official in the whole country that is elected district ruler and there is no SYRIZA official in any major city in Greece elected mayor. This is the answer that the Greek people, ladies and gentlemen, have given to your strategy. And that's not weird. You are the result and creation of the false dividing lines that you have been able to draw up the years of the crisis and the coming of the memorials and make use of breaches that existed in the traditional political system in the country, thus climbing up to power. But in self-government, you haven't done well. You're out and you've failed. So it was very easy for you to do these incredible things with the simple analogue. It has never become a mayor and regional mayor before to get 50% plus one of the votes and not to have a majority in the organs that govern the municipality and the region. It is a deeply undemocratic logic. It is deeply irrational, it is offensive to the voters. Can I tell you something? If you wanted to be consistent and do it properly, you should drive things into the direct election of the mayor, say "We believe that the mayor should not be elected directly by the people, we simply want proportional representation in the election of the municipalities, the municipal councils, the mayors and the district directors" and then assembled the municipal council and the regional council and elected the mayor. That would be a consistent attitude for you. But you didn't want that thing. Because all you were interested in was the mess for an institution that didn't mind getting to that position at all. That's how we came here. And we, dear friends, what did we do? I'm admonished to tell you that today the Ministry of Interior has posted the account of the first thirty days on its website. We will do so at regular intervals, because we respect citizens, we want to constantly give reason, and we want to be under the continuous control of society for the work and work we do, for the positive and for the negative, for the successes and for the omissions, because it is our job to constantly improve, because only arrogantness is not allowed to hold us and because we are here to serve the Greeks, regardless of social origin, gender or political identity. We are here to be the government of all Greeks, as our Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has declared. So we got this situation. Within 30 days we met with the CEDEFOP, with all elected regional directors. I met personally, as well as the State Secretary and the Secretary-General, with more than seventy mayors. I personally blamed the fact that I spoke with mayors who do not come from the political area of New Democracy and listen to their thoughts. What we have brought here, as you have seen in the committee, has the consent and support of the CEDEFOP and the vast majority of the mayors and all the elected regional authorities. That's the reality. Why are we doing this? Because we're giving a solution to basic cyberprobability problems. Who? Firstly, we are upgrading the municipal and regional councils, because we are getting over them discussions on extremely minor issues. A characteristic case is the money given for municipal or regional staff's movements and a number of other, dozens of things discussed in municipal councils that have no meaning to get there. Those who have been mayors or executives of self-government know this very well. We are also responsible for opposition, because in the serious discussions on the budget, on the technical programme, on the operational plan, on the serious issues of the municipality, we are asking the opposition to support its refusal and it supports it in terms of opinions and data provided by the municipal services themselves. No more "no" for "no"! No more specious opposition! Secondly, we are encouraging the cooperation, convergence and partnership of factions, because we, too, believe in cooperation. And because that is the New Democracy policy in the field of self-government, that is why the New Democracy has been rewarded by the Greek people. You should be very concerned, because the power of the Left and of the PASOK, which had been dominated for decades in the self-government area, today is extremely minority, and the Greek people have given other preferences in the area of selfgovernment, which supports the policy of the New Democracy in this area, because it is a political united, developmentist, which supports social cohesion. We therefore encourage partnerships and convergences provided that the mayor's party is involved. Let me also say something: the election result for the municipalities and regions is linked to the electoral system. Would there be twenty candidates in the Municipality of Thessaloniki, if that were not the electoral law, gentlemen?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u205	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u206	Let's get serious! Everyone knows that. The question therefore comes backwards and we are only making a contribution to governance, giving the mayors and districters the necessary majority in the administrative bodies of the municipalities and regions, so that we can go further. Total intervention in the area of self-government will take place in the winter coming. Here we have confined ourselves to interventions which are faced with acute cyberproblem problems. It would not be right within a month and in the summer to deal with the overall situation. We want the responsibilities of both the first and second degrees to be fully cleared up and across the central state and administration in order to benefit citizens from a modern, lasting, efficient state, which will help citizens to have a much better quality of life. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Give me one more minute, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that SYRIZA has had to counteract this bill in advance. What's he gonna do? He must make opposition now and it is obvious that he is in strategic discomfort. How can Mr Tsipras balance between the heavy responsibilities for what he has done, at EUR 100 billion, with which he has burdened the country? How to balance the lies and the twenty - nine new taxes? How to balance working interventions in the institutions? How can it balance out the unprecedented construction of "NOVARTIS" and "Raspoutins"? How can you balance SYRIZA's primitive political DNA that keeps you back, hopefully you'll once return to power? In self-government, you have to understand that in the winter that the electoral law of simple analogy comes to an end. There's no reason to exist. We believe, however, that if Mr. Tsipras really wants to move forward and convince someone that he wants to look forward and see the game of politics in terms of realism, you should put an end to your support for the simple analogue as a general political system for the country and come to create an electoral law that ensures proportionality, representativeness and governance of the country, because it is a requirement for the Greek people to move forward in a firm and substantial way. This four-year period has done so with his choice of giving the place leadership to Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u207	Thank you too, Minister. Now Mrs Makrei has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u208	Madam President, I would like the floor in relation to the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u209	Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes, so that my colleague may speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u210	Madam President, I would like to say a little bit about the procedure, to know exactly what we are doing, when the list of speakers will be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u211	Now the list opens.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u212	We also want to know what the procedure will be for those who have been written and when the procedure will be completed. The Communist Party has pre-empted that it will table a request for a roll-call vote. All this needs to be discussed so that we can see how much time the speakers will have and how the process will be organised.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u213	Mr Colleagues, first of all, the list should be started. No colleague has even started talking. I think when we go to this process, you'll know it all along. I would ask the speakers to keep the time, because there have been too many colleagues here, so that we do not have yesterday's phenomenon that some people have spoken a little too little time and the process has been too much pressure. Mrs. Macrie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not get tired of highlighting the unique and unprecedented consistency of words and works and the speed - also unparalleled and unprecedented - in relation to the past with which our Government is legislating. The speed to which I am referring is, of course, also in this inter-ministerial bill that focuses on human beings and puts an end to the distortions of the past. It is a bill which discusses and deals with provisions, among other things, to pave the way for digital pensioning and speed up their award time, to create the framework for immediately applying the commitment of Mr Mitsotakis to distribute drugs to the heavyly ills in their homes, to the hospitality or pharmacies in their neighborhood, to secure university asylum, to protect the free movement of ideas in research and teaching and to end the existing lawlessness regime in universities, to reduce the interest rate on debts in insurance funds from 5% to 3%, as has already been done on the debts to tax. It will pave the way for an end to the dissolutionary situation since the law was introduced and the mere analogy to the emergence of the members of regional and municipal councils, to the policy of eternal incomplete dialogue, as the Minister quite rightly said, to lay the foundations of the new digital state, which is an initiative of extraordinary importance for the more effective operation of the state and better service of the citizen, as simplification of procedures and practices for e-government is introduced to transform public administration and the economy of the country. I am also going to put forward my approval of the positively necessary abolition of immunity to raw violence by law. The legislative initiative under discussion has, in addition to the immediate practical impact, a strong symbolic significance. The state is not afraid of illegal people, instead they must count on it. What we considered to be a given decades now is no longer a given one, it is not permissible, it is not legal, it is not tolerable. The laws do not define them as movements and society and the IOAs are tired of distortions based on ideology. At the "CATHMERINA" of 30 July 2019, on the third page, four university teachers submitted their opinion in an article entitled "Can it be abolished, but nothing change?" - It is true that asylum - where they express fear that the abolition of the asylum law follows the fate of the anti-smoking law adopted in 2003. I believe there is no fear and no such danger. They also mention something very important, that our universities with thousands of members do not have a service to deal with institutions' safety issues every day. However, there is no provision for disciplinary control of students and students, modern and corresponding to European spiritual institutions and, where available, outdated and not implemented. I therefore believe that there must also be an organisation for the protection of university buildings and for the treatment of phenomena of violence to this end. It requires consultation of the competent authorities, a change in our democratic culture. The Article was introduced in 1982. Thirty-two years is a question of whether it has worked even once to protect the free movement of ideas. On the contrary, the way it worked, made, especially as the years passed, easier the work of the various groups of violence and allowed the looting of public space and public property. Thus, by means of freedom of expression, he became a vehicle to cover lawlessness, taking over sites and, indeed, with a progressive mark. It is therefore only praiseworthy for the Minister and the government for this initiative, which the Prime Minister had made a commitment in the run-up to the election, which does not simply stop blocking the free movement of ideas, but allows it without hindrance, to ensure the conduct of research and freedom without stumbling. And just praise for the Minister's statement on the correct lifting of the provision of another legal school, where it was its seat, to abolish the provisions adopted by the SYRIZA Government, to limit the role of the PPP and to re-establish the responsibilities now conferred on other bodies. The Ministry was right to aim to further strengthen the independence of the authority by the Ministry and the institutions and should be encouraged in future to play a central role in the planning of the redeployment of the country's academic map. Also, as a former State Secretary for Health, I would like to welcome the excellent provision of the Ministry of Health, which aims to put an end to the tails of shame in the EOPY pharmacies, a provision which, as the Minister said, will be further improved. Finally, in order not to misuse time, Madam President, I would like to say a few words about the provisions concerning the First and Second Regional Authorities. The bill removes cyber obstacles to municipalities and regions, as the weaknesses resulting from the implementation of mere analogy are addressed, while the role of municipal and regional councils remains strong. With strong committees that will have the final say in the most critical decisions, hands to the "occupied" by the law winners of self-government, who take office on 1 September with a minority of councils. That is what the Minister said quite rightly and in detail. These sound and self-evident legislative initiatives must therefore be supported, voted in favour and implemented rapidly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Janakopoulos, do you want to take the floor, why did you speak on a point of order before?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u216	No, I asked to speak normally after the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u217	Well, you have the floor for twelve minutes. I'll be too strict, you know. PUBLIC JANAKOPOULOS: Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the speech by the Minister. He came here, in this Chamber and instead of trying to answer all the arguments put forward during the process of drafting the bill to committees, but also by the rapporteurs of the political parties, he chose to make a purely political position, which, in fact, reiterated all the stereotypes of the old-party bankruptcy regime. Because I imagine that for the Minister the 2010 bankruptcy was obviously falsified, it was a falsification of the deficit of 24 billion left by the New Democracy Government at the end of 2009, it was falsified that the lack of 2010 and 2014 was falsifying the recession of 25% during this four-year period, it was false that the PASOK and the New Democracy governments for four consecutive years had imposed measures of 65 billion on the Greek people and therefore the dividing lines that emerged from these policies were also falsified. It is also a political analysis which can retrospectively justify both the New Democracy and the Minister, in order to consider that everything that has been done during bankruptcy and its management operation as a whole was a false copy. Let's just forget about it, like nothing happened and keep our lives going. I think that this is a convenient political solution for both the Minister, but also for the Prime Minister and the new Government of New Democracy. I am surprised that whenever I hear the new ministers and the Prime Minister himself in their speeches in the last thirty days, they are constantly referring to the internal or external mandate, not to display arrogance. It's this internal moral check. The point is, however, that with all their speeches and all their speeches, as was done today in the speech of the Minister of the Interior, they effectively cancel themselves, in the style but also in the sense of supremacy that it is supposed to give them the election result, which, however, I must inform you, Minister, that it is not such that it can retrospectively justify all your political options in advance. Here I come to the main point, if you will, of my position, that we have entered - this is the experience of the last month - in a very dark period of institutional decline, which is hidden under a staff of hypocritical and polite card and a person allegedly technocratic. Two symptoms highlight the situation in which the country has entered. The first is the view that, in the face of the election result, arguments, dialogue and political controversy are left behind. The second symptom is even worse, that in the face of the election result the law, the constitutional order, the Union law are retreating. Everything is justified by the election victory. It is right here that absolute hypocrisy, manipulation, demagogy with the support of the media and the special economic interests and power centres appear. Yesterday the President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Alexis Tsipras, raised a number of issues justifying these points and these conclusions and at the same time highlight your deepest hypocrisy. We have rich examples in just one month of governance, because in this one month no white has left your register. First example. Appointment of a Minister advisor to LAMDA DEVELOPMENT to manage the case of the Greek State and the negotiation of the Greek State. In your opinion this is a perfectly normal procedure. It is the reintroduction to normality, that is to say, to change the positions at the table between private business interests and the Greek public at dock and that is justified by the election result. The second example. Appointment of the head of the NRA without seemingly meeting the legitimate conditions. You didn't answer us yesterday. Is the degree of the new SPS commander, who comes to play a central institutional role, in an institution that is essentially required to safeguard the security of the country in terms of external risks, or is he or she not recognised? Are the conditions laid down in the law in order to be able to appoint Mr. Congregated Commander of the NSA, or are you planning to change that law retrospectively? Third matter. I'm taking the lead on the Polakis case. All of this has been discussed, all of this has been said about the unconstitutional handling and the anti-constitutional methods you have used to lead the process to the concrete result that you have led it but, thankfully, it is the final word that the Greek courts have and there will hear all that needs to be heard, as in a number of other cases. Fourthly, we could now multiply the list and speak here for an hour and a half - the appointment of Mr Dimitriadis, a former associate of Mr Floros, a nephew of Mr Mitsotakis, to the position of Secretary-General. And that's what I imagine is justified by the people's mandate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u218	They were to blame for Karanikas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u219	So we could multiply that list. But I would like to tell you that both of the bills drawn up by the House in these days, the one that was voted yesterday on the euphemism 'final state', but also today on the OTAs, are part of this list and these are also samples written on one and the same government's method, the total control of the state, its structures, its mechanisms, administrative and self-government, the over-concentration of powers. The example of the Single Transparency Authority is here revealing. What did you do? Since you could not control with party criteria the Public Administration Inspector General, you said to abolish him and reconstitute the Single Transparency Inspectorate's post, whose head will be appointed by the Government, because this is justified by the election result. What does not suit us, what we cannot control, what we cannot manipulate, abolish it and reconstitute it, in accordance with the terms that suit the party and governmental method that goes on. With today's bill you're not doing exactly the same. What was the logic of ‘CLEARED’ and of mere analogy? Not only will the creation of a system that reflects the popular will more directly, such as the system of mere analogy, not only the promotion of a reasonable political convergence and consensus on local affairs that is necessary, but also the creation of a system of institutional and democratic control of the mayor and regional authority by a municipal council, which reflects the popular will in the most unadulterated way, i.e. in a mere proportional manner. It is precisely this control that you want to avoid, because all the provisions that the Minister brings in this Chamber are aimed at the uncontrollable control of the mayor and the district manager. This is what the partnerships referred to in Article 1. This is what the new conditions for the setting-up of the social committees and the quality of life committees are for, without now reflecting the political result that has come to the elections on 26 May. You do the same with the transfer of powers to committees, depriving the council of its constitutionally guaranteed powers. You do the same with the abolition of Community Councils and the removal of powers from them. What's the pretext here? The pretext is here, supposedly, rulership. But what does the pragmatic liberal speech do in all cases where principles and values conflict? It's used to such divisions. Consider how many times they do this and they are going to do it in the government these years. Governance - democracy, freedom - equality. The more equality is promoted, the more economic freedom is restricted. Therefore, the objective of the pragmatic liberal speech or neoliberal speech is to limit equality, to increase disparities in order not to limit economic freedom. But he does it again in another false dilemma: Freedom - Security. This time it is the freedom to retreat, because it suits the liberal word, to take first place in the dilemma. So what suits us every time with one single purpose, the suffocating control of all aspects of life. Here I am going to the second major issue of the bill, because this very objective of controlling all aspects of life is also the objective of Article 64, because Article 64 aims to control an aspect of life and academic life. What, though, is academic life? A lot has been heard here. Does it not belong to academic life and its definitions, ideological and political controversy about the conditions for the formation of academic life? So, do you remove this element from academic freedom? Why are you doing this? You do it to serve the purpose of suffocating control and depreciation of the public university. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me, Madam President, two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u220	Just a minute, Mr. Comrade. We don't have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u221	I heard the Minister of Education yesterday say that he wants the university space to be uniform to the entire public space, but exactly the characteristic of the university institution, as it has been formed for a millennium, is that the university space cannot be treated as the rest of the public space. It is precisely the particularity that the asylum institution has to recognise. Another peculiarity also recognises, however, the institution of asylum, just like the institutions of individual rights, as does the institution of family asylum. What's the peculiarity? It is that the Constitution and the law have as their foundation the suspicion of state arbitrariness. The argument that you always repeat that, because there is democracy, this leads to the eclipse of any phenomenon of state arbitrary, so there is no need to protect against state arbitrary and, in particular, to the very sensitive area of the university, could lead to its last consequence, if we take this reason, that there is no need for individual rights, so all this is abolished under the pseudo-nomical argument that we allegedly have democracy, so there are no risks of state arbitrary. All of this is nothing but a tough way to satisfy a clear, symbolic and ideological objective, control of academic life, of life within the university space and justify something else, your extreme right-wing campaign over the past few years towards the public university, against the institutions that actually achieve the conditions for the establishment of the university and the student movement. The recipe is old and tested. Allow me to make one final comment, Madam President, on the matter...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u222	Mr. Comrade, finish it up. You've been over time a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u223	Allow me, I understand that, but there are too many of the issues raised in the bill. I'm not going to take the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u224	I understand that, but there are many colleagues who want to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u225	I would like to say a few things about Article 101 and the most serious problem facing the New Democracy, with the provision of an incompatibility which is coming to work retroactively for the Competition Authority. In 2016 a series of New Democracy officials and MPs, but also current ministers, had on the same subject raised extremely aggressive objections to the then government, which, of course, also provided for a transitional provision on the case, which has been discussed in relation to the Competition Committee. I would remind you of what Mr Fortsakis said, for example. It comes - it says - and significantly alters the incompatibilities, which are photographically. We know that when it comes and says that these incompatibilities, even if they are right for the future, are occupied by the present persons, we have a provision that severely offends the independence of the authority. Mr Dendias has said that it is a waste and an absolutely unconstitutional amendment, because the government has an obligation to respect the term of office of the authority until its intended expiry. There have been similar arguments from Mr Miltiades Varvitsiotis, similar arguments from Mr Georgiadis, corresponding arguments from Mr Vorides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u226	Mr. Comrade, you only have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u227	Today, of course, in the light of the election result, all these arguments go away. It doesn't have to be repeated. The government now has the political, legal and moral right to say other than what it claimed in 2016. As far as legal documentation is concerned, the issues have already been raised and be careful: you take responsibility, gentlemen of the government, to initiate a very long judicial procedure where the Commission and the Court of Justice of the European Union may condemn the country, which has once again happened on a similar subject in the case of the committee against Hungary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u228	Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u229	If you intend to turn Greece into the Hungary of Orban, you will know, Mr Theodorikos, that we will not allow it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u230	Colleague, you will allow me to repeat for once, when you are using so much time, take time away from your colleagues and I think that this is not in line with...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u231	He is a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u232	He didn't talk less, because I'm recording how much everyone speaks. So please, very much, I give this time, like everyone else. Keep your time and you'll get the least of it to help you complete your thoughts and opinions. Now Mr. Lappas has the floor from SYRIZA for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, three bills are brought by the government after the elections, the two 'emblems', as it itself describes them. Of both bills are missing, what the Rules of Parliament impose, I would say, the circumstances and the foundations of good legislature, the consultation of large pieces for the final state, for the entire bill after it was deposited, because this bill does not contain a number of articles. I should like to remind you that Rule 85 of the Rules of Procedure makes it compulsory to deposit its bills and regulations. So we have two bills seriously which both violate Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Secondly, because I am also SYRIZA's Justice Officer, for half a minute I will only deal with the provisions introduced by the relevant Ministry of Justice. What does the bill do with Articles 97 and 98, ladies and gentlemen? First of all, it suspends and effectively suspends provisions on social benefits and, secondly, suspends Article 13A and 263A of the Criminal Code and becomes dead in many chapters of the Criminal Code. Does the Ministry of Justice not understand that once and for one day a provision of criminal law will apply to all cases and offences committed? What is the point of suspending provisions of the Criminal Code when it becomes fragmentary and almost one and a half months after the adoption of the two codes, the work of the legislators who worked for a 20-year period in the country and by whom? I'd say from the crown, from the pyramid to the big legal mind in the country. What can I remind you of John Manoledakis? Remind the late Nikolao Dorlaki? Should I remind Symonidus - Kastanidos that their plan, almost self-evident, was accepted as a plan now and has the Criminal Codes? For months now, he was calling for a representative of KINAL - and he was right - and the colleagues of the New Democracy: 'Get the Criminal Codes, at last, to vote on them to dismantle the detention shops', because it was the vicious circle, when you have no Criminal Codes, you are obliged as a state to continue doing decongestion laws. We have brought them into the Criminal Codes, and the ink has not even dried up and an amendment is coming. When we said that the Penal Codes should come to stop the state from bringing various provisions of a criminal nature, it is a crime to adopt a fragmentary amendment. Some articles are suspended. First of all, the concept of employee. The concept of a staff member has changed, because we have new institutions, such as the assumption of children, such as the cohabitation agreement that affects their relatives. Prosecutors today who will have the documents in their hands and will judge cases how they will judge, by what means, in what sense of the staff member? And Article 263a, which deals with the powers of the Prosecutor of Corruption and here is a great deal of thought. To come to us here and tell the relevant ministers why they are suspending these provisions when they are implemented, they will already be implemented to date. That is the first question. Two. Mr President, with regard to the retrospectiveness of the case of the President of the Committee on Competition, the ink of your last emblematic bill on an executive state, where there is a specific article for which your Member was proud here from the Step forward of the House on this provision, because for the first time - it says - a provision of law prohibiting the retroactive application of law, presidential decrees, etc. and today, with your order, you come and violate your legislation yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u234	For entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u235	For any matter, Mr. Comrade. Retrospectiveness is a general term. It can't be a card. Our parliamentary representative has said it, I have no time to say it. But I would like to say something else. I heard before the Minister for the Interior. The words surrounding the legislation were ‘development’, ‘financial stability’, etc. The words "democracy" and "liberty" are absent from the mouth of the Minister responsible for a legislature of local government, the core of one of the main pillars of democracy. I have to say to you, Minister, that this bill actually hosts a concept, the concept of mere analogy. And you need to know, because you will know, it is not possible, after 1950 in the European countries of modern Western Europe, that 95% of regions in Western Europe were structured, moved forward and progressed on the basis of the simple proportional system throughout their entire area with indirect election. Do you want me to tell you which countries - and being recorded in the Minutes - have they been merely proportional from 1950 to today and have heard? Local government is a local government in Western Europe, and you come and you oppose simply proportionally as if it were demonized. So listen to which countries are and I close, Madam President. Simple proportional over its range with an indirect election of the candidate mayor or district mayor. Listen: Belgium, Denmark, Ireland, Norway, the Netherlands, Sweden, simply proportional with an indirect election of mayor. England, Scotland, Wales and France for more than a thousand inhabitants just proportional to an indirect election and for under a thousand inhabitants with a majority system. Only the Netherlands and Germany lately, after the 1960s, have established a simple analogue in all Länder and in all regional development institutions. Do you want regional development by circumventing the cell of democracy that is a pillar of the concept of democracy, such as local self-government, and do you think you will develop local selfgovernment with covetous systems? Why isn't Mr. Kamines here? I remind you of the Kamine-Sakellaridis elections. With a thousand five hundred votes, the elected mayor, Mr. Kamines, took the first five seats and the second one, with the same percentage, and the same one, took twenty-nine more than the elected mayor, Mr. Kamines, and remained with the five who had about 40% of the votes. Do you want to talk about "CALL"? Any bill concerning local government would see the financial implications, their rationalisation. And right. All the bills because they failed you say? The ‘CARRIATTRIA’, the ‘CALL’? Because they left the issue of democracy outside. Here's what the logic is that we have to reverse at one time. It says the heinous technocrat and economist...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u236	Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u237	I'm done, Madam President. Banking crisis, economic crisis, humanitarian crisis, crisis of democracy. Now listen to the path of the opposite thought of the modern intellectual and left.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u238	Mr. Comrade, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u239	I'm done. Democratisation, humanitarian crisis, economic crisis, banking crisis, humanitarian and social crisis. This is the route. That's how you need to see it. The five minutes, Madam President, now only the Member and no one else bears this burden. I raise four questions to the relevant ministers and close in seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u240	Mr Colleague, you speak seven and a half minutes and you take time from a colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u241	Five seconds, Mr. President. First, Mr Ministers of Justice, do you believe that by subjecting penitentiary policy to the protection of the citizen the following is being implemented? Can the Ministry of Civil Protection make a stand-alone policy with legal guarantees? Passing the prison door the criminal, the convicted, is deprived of his personal freedom and any other right? Thirdly, is the purpose of imprisonment?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u242	Mr. Comrade, it's eight minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u243	Fourthly, does the European acquis provide for a distinction between penitentiary and justice guarantees or not? Answer these questions, because they are not just questions of justice, they are also questions of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u244	My colleague has asked for the floor on staff for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u245	The staff consisted of the fact that my colleague said yesterday about the non-enforcement of the retroactive burden on entrepreneurship. It is another thing that the government and the article of the bill concerning Mrs Thanos, where with the retrospectiveness of what she actually does is the public benefit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u246	There's no staff, Mr. Comrade. Anyway. Mrs Giannakopoulou has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u247	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are entering a new social age. At the same time, we are entering a new political era with major drafts of the recasting of law and equality, the redefinition of solidarity, the redefinition of rights. However, it involves, ladies and gentlemen, a different concept of the very concept of reform, a concept of long-standing in the years of the crisis. We are coming today, Minister, to discuss a multi-brand plan, which touches almost all the ministries, at a fast forward rate, introduced in the form of urgency. Who, Minister, is the turn to normality for you? Do you mean returning to your normality by walking to the familiar paths of the governments of your resignation? The fact that you returned to power with a powerful government does not make you modern prophets nor allows you to disorientate Greek society. We are now coming today to discuss a multi-brand plan which plays dangerously with the limits of constitutionality and which makes us wonder whether in 2019 the popular verdict, the force of the Greek people's vote, if terms linked to the foundations of democracy, such as a majority and a minority, are finally to be replaced with new terms of proportional majority under the veil of the partnership, as it says, and even without the provision for programme agreements. So the attempt you do in the first part, aiming to ensure the majority of the mayor in the committees of economics and quality of life, we tell you that it is dynamite in the functioning of the representativeness of our society on the pretext of being ruled out by the municipalities. In the next part of the plan, the New Democracy Government is making changes to the university asylum system, for which we have a clear position, and which, firstly, as regards the first two paragraphs, which ensure and describe asylum are positive. It does not, however, avoid in paragraph 3 of the bill that it is very simply in the logic of the 'law and order'. It is a problem, of course, and the fact that your approach raises the issue of asylum as the major, as the only issue of higher education, as if there were no other issues as much and even more serious, which have to do with the quality of public universities, mainly those relating to the economically weaker. The Change Movement, in order to put an end to the negative situations of the HEIs, has already proposed the reintroduction of Article 3 of Law 40000/2011, of the Diamantopoulou Act. It is a provision which had then been passed by a large majority by the Greek Parliament, which fully protects free teaching, research and academic freedoms in our Constitution. We have tabled a specific proposal on this provision and on how it should be returned and we call on the Minister to adopt it. And we are going to the third part - and let me speak of this as a matter of justice - of the much-discussed changes in the Criminal Code that you are going through in Articles 95 to 100 in the Multi-Project. Evidently the provisions of Article 95 and Article 96 are nothing more than a formal ratification of the MSF 27/6/2019, issued by the previous government for the correction of findings, errors of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, which were voted in order - incomplete, a few 24 hours before the previous House closed down. I'll say it again. We will remain in our view that, as far as criminal law is concerned, there is a good reason to review and correct a number of provisions, in particular the Criminal Code, which may have dangerous or unjustly favourable consequences for perpetrators of serious crimes, acts of terrorism and others. In no case can that be done by concise procedures. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. We insist on our view that there are more fundamental changes in the codes within a short period of time. We are also calling on the Minister to give us a clear timetable for the next steps. I conclude by saying this: but a timetable, Mr Minister, is also required for the major changes which need to be made. Because deepening democracy, reform, change, economic upheaval and social progress must go hand in hand from now on. Will you implement it in practice, Minister? Or, in the end, do you only limit it to articles of legislation such as this bill, and even without any programming? Be well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u248	And we, my colleague. Mr Lambroulis from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Madam President. The articles of the Ministry of Health's draft law regulate a number of issues relating to so-called expensive or hospital medicinal products - which concern patients, cancer patients and not only - but also their availability. Of course, it is not a question of removing the obstacles to the disposal of these medicines, namely the specific approval procedures or the opinions of the Special Committee or the approval by the Board of Directors of the EEAS, which, on the pretext of overdrafting and the fight against corruption, have been established in the logic of limiting the pharmaceutical expenditure successively by all the governments of the New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA. On the contrary, there is still the same pre-respect procedure as unjustified delays, rejections and plaques, while the patients and their families will continue to pay for a number of medicines, treatments, examinations that are needed due to their illness and the state does not cover them. They will continue to exist the tools for cutting public spending and benefits either through non-scientific tools, such as therapeutic, pharmaceutical, diagnostic protocols, or the various blocks and at the same time supplementing the ECOFIN Benefits Regulation. It will continue the biggest problem for patients with chronic diseases, cancer patients, disabled persons and others, i.e. with the weaknesses of public units responding to their needs for laboratory tests, treatments, hospitalisation, surgery, etc., due to the subsistence and inadequacy of their equipment, forcing patients to address the private sector, by paying extra sums. Thus, 15% participation in laboratory diagnostics will continue, the payment of between 30% and 50% of the private hospital price as well as the separate extra fee for doctors, 10% of the patients in payment for physicotherapeutic treatments, and the list is long. It will continue, in addition to the established participation of 0%, 10%, 25%, to pay the patient part or entirely the difference from the retail price of medicines, due to the introduction of the so-called insurance price, a trick through which the EEAS participates in the compensation for a smaller part of the actual price of medicines. Thus, while for a drug, for example, patient participation is 25%, in practice they pay up to 80% of their retail price. They will continue to cut everything needed to support people with chronic illness, disability, etc. due to their additional needs, depending on the type of disability. There will be no government funding for the EEA, since the 100 million granted for the uninsured over the last two years do not go far enough either to be vaccinated for influenza and pneumococcal or medicines, while the levy will continue to be levied on the health sector, by 6% on the main and supplementary pensions, that is to say, 770 million a year for the bleeding of pensioners. The above reveals that trade in health, medicine, welfare, will deepen, as will cuts in the name of budgetary discipline, to the detriment of the real needs of patients and health. This also requires the European Union's Health Strategy to ensure so-called sustainable and efficient health systems, namely the rapid reduction of state funding and the strengthening of the operation of state units on business terms. And in this strategy, everyone agrees, New Democracy, SYRIZA, KINAL and other urban parties. And revealing the consequences that anti-grass policy and today, as well as the previous government in the health sector, is the millions of EOGY members who were insured a few days before the July elections and, above all, the people were exposed between a resourced staff and medical equipment for public health and the private diagnostic centers, who put the knife on their neck to pay expensive for emergency diagnostic tests. This policy of fair development of SYRIZA, be it the sustainable development of the New Democracy, is that sends a gift of 70% to 90% of the examinations to the private sector, by depriving the people, by burdening the insurance funds, to relieve their profits, by entrepreneurs to health. And, of course, joint assessments of consistency, not to the people and patients, but to the objectives and requirements of capital and, more specifically, to the pharmaceutical and pharmaceutical industries and traders are the gifts of some tens of millions of the SYRIZA government's well-known claw back. And now the Government of New Democracy comes with the unacceptable article 80 to introduce another boot through the regime of one hundred and twenty instalments, i.e. the compulsory return of companies for the years 2013-2018, on the grounds, as stated, of the preservation of the public interest, the continuation of private business and the uninterrupted and effective access of patients to medical care. In fact, what does the government say? On the one hand, it rushes to meet the demands of the pharmaceutical industry, in order not to disturb their profitability, while at the same time exchanging the people that, if no regulation is made, there might be a problem in accessing medicinal products. Only the people are lost. Because the biggest scandal today is the huge gap that exists between the huge conquests of science and technology, but that our people cannot exploit to the full to protect their health. And that is because the main problem is that the current government, like the previous and other urban parties, shapes policies and positions for people's health care in accordance with the guidelines of the European Union and capital, namely how state, insurance and health expenditure as a component of so-called non-wage costs will be limited to the minimum and uniform for all. Because this requires the criterion of growth, the capitalist economy, the competitiveness and profitability of business groups. That is why the struggle for people's struggle to demand relief and secondment measures must be directed towards the prospect of deeper political, economic and social changes, for a development that will meet modern and ever-enlarged social needs, which will be a universal, guaranteed popular right by labour power and its state. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister for Culture and Sport has the floor for twelve minutes now, Mr Mendoni.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Culture and Sport introduces four provisions to this draft law. Of these, Articles 87 and 88 concern the Archaeological Resources and Expropriations Fund, the reconstruction of which, as we have repeatedly said, is a priority for the Government. Our aim is to ensure a multiplier effect for the local economy and entrepreneurship, to strengthen the dynamic and prestige of the cultural product, to link culture to the development and extroversion, to promote in the area of cultural management innovation and technology, to create a framework for creative employment opportunities. We are seeking to maximise revenue from cultural resources in order to secure resources for culture itself. Culture is a public asset, and this is where there are no doubts. Culture is not a conception. It's a knowledge, a system of values, art, education. To serve them, however, this state requires money. Exploiting cultural wealth does not mean marketing it, gentlemen of counterpopulation. And let us not confuse things. For the above reasons, the proposed provisions explicitly provide for the appointment of alternate members to the Board of Directors of the Archaeological Resources and Expropriations Fund, in order not to limit the possibility of convening the Board of Directors. To date - and in the last appointments - alternate members were appointed without authorisation, which raises questions of the nullity of decisions. For the first time - and I stress it - the participation of the Board of Directors of the Archaeological Resources and Appropriations Fund is institutionalised by a representative of the Legal Board of State, who replaces any private legal authority appointed by the Minister of Culture. In other words, the Minister's competence for reasons of transparency and public interest is being limited. The Head of Culture of SYRIZA tells us that the provision effectively abolishes the archaeological law, because the establishment of the Archaeological Resources Fund does not involve an archaeologist on the board. Let us know in which article the archaeological law, namely Law 3028/2002, refers to the composition of the Board of Directors of the Archaeological Resources Fund. He won't tell us, because there's no such reference to archaeological law. As for the participation of archaeologists in the Board of Directors of the Fund, it was never mandatory. Today, the Director-General for Culture is involved in the Board, which is responsible for the entire Archaeological Service. Obviously the Secretary-General is due and will be in touch with the Archaeological Service. We are indicted by the Qualified Opposition because we are abolishing the expression of the Central Archaeological Board's opinion in the appointment of members of the Fund's Board of Directors. We remind them that this provision has been abolished 12 years ago. We are being insulted because we are calling for two posters of posted administrative staff and two Special Advisers to be established in order to frame the chairman of the Fund's Board of Directors. We remind them that the Fund operates under the 1977 Agency. Forty-two years, that is, dating. It therefore takes place on a personal basis for today and for the needs of modern cultural expertise management. We have said that in the autumn the new law on the operation of the Fund will be tabled in Parliament, the one that the ministers of SYRIZA have always brought to Parliament, but they have never brought it. The third provision, Article 89, concerns the revocation of notices for filling the seats of the artistic directors of the National Theatre, the Greek Festival, the National Museum of Contemporary Art and the State Odei Thessaloniki. First of all, these invitations were issued by a delegation of the power referred to in Article 8(4) of L.4369/2016. As of yesterday's adoption of the Final State Act, the first thirteen articles of the 2016 Act were repealed horizontally. In addition, the withdrawal is for reasons of public interest. The four weeks during which the deadline for an expression of interest was interrupted as a result of the national elections of 7 July, passes the procedures in a time that creates serious organisational problems in the functioning of the respective bodies, in particular in the programming of the artistic work and the artistic activities of the next period. We are told by SYRIZA's cultural director that "we remove any concept of transparency and worthiness and that we ignore the constant demand of the artistic world that the artistic organizations be staffed by public and transparent competitions" and that we are allegedly injuring democracy. What transparency and dignity are we talking about, honourable Members, when the artistic organizations themselves reacted to the contents of the notices by informing the former Minister of Culture in writing that 'this statement, as formulated, raises a strong question on several points, which give rise to a strong sense of qualification'? They say a lot more. I put the relevant documents in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr Styliani Mendoni, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Furthermore, the texts of the notices, which the previous government issued in particular, find legal errors, which made them particularly vulnerable to appeals, which, in turn, jeopardized the smooth functioning of the artistic organizations. I mention one example. Citizens of the Member States of the European Union were also provided for in the Acts revoked. However, according to the founding laws of the bodies, artistic directors exercise powers of public authority. Under Article 1(1) of Law 2431/1996 citizens of the European Union may not participate directly or indirectly in the exercise of public powers. The notices in question therefore run counter to an existing provision. In conclusion, we are not opposed to the process of open invitations of interest - we have already announced them since 2014 - but good notices. And that is what we will do following the good practices of other European countries and after substantial dialogue with the artistic community. Today, however, artistic organizations must function and function. The last provision proposed, Article 99, which has no concern to you, gentlemen of counter-population, concerns the reintroduction of penalties for crimes against the cultural heritage provided for in the archaeological law, namely Law 3028/2002. With Article 463 of the Criminal Code, adopted by the SYRIZA Government, the relevant penalties are slightly lower. These reliefs give the wrong message to the domestic archaic circuits, which are the first rings in the chain of cultural goods, before they end up in addition to international auction houses. Archaecapilia belongs to the sphere of organized crime that produces huge economic gains. At a time when we are making huge efforts over time to prevent illegal trade in antiquities internationally, two months before the government then reduced sanctions. With cultural issues, we are not playing. So, stop, gentlemen, put false dilemmas, create sterile doubles. Leave "proclamations and rhetorics" for allegedly extinguishing culture in the market. The market, for those who deliberately ignore it, does not match the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u252	Thank you too, Minister. Ms. Mylonakis has the floor from the Greek Solution for five minutes and Mrs. Bakandima will follow in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u253	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is now acceptable to all of us, so at least I have understood that this House is the best parliament in recent years. We said from the outset we had to say truths here. If we make fun of ourselves, we also make fun of the Greek people. I attended the committee for both days, but also today for Mr Javarra. I now ask the Minister, because I see Mr Georgioda here, with whom we are well acquainted: Mr Georgioda, do you think that the May elections, namely the self-government elections, were carried out on a reinforced analogue or on a simple analogue basis? You will now tell me: "On simple analogues, since SYRIZA's Law 4595/18 has been implemented". And I ask now: are you going to change the law, make it a reinforced analogue again? It's not a question of whether we like it or don't like it. But when the citizen goes and votes, you know what reminds me? In July 2015, there was a referendum by SYRIZA, by these people, who falsified the world for four and a half years. There was a referendum and the Greek people voted 'no' and finally came out 'yes'. The Greek people are now coming and voting on simple analogues, they're taking out mayors, they're taking out district rulers and you - I'm bringing you one example - you're saying to him: 'This president of the community you made, for example. In the case of Barumbas, it will not have any authority.' Why won't he have any power, Minister? Because you take it away from him. You say in fact that it goes contrary to paragraph 1 of Article 104 of the Constitution, which says that local government is in two stages. It's municipal elections and regional elections. Yes, sir. So you're deviating the world, you're finishing it. Whatever power the world had when it voted, now it has nothing to do with it. Why? I come to the question of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. Whatever the mayor wants is going through the economic committee. He doesn't have to go to the city council. So as in the final state you've done a big-headed state with no body, so you're coming now and you're making a municipality with a powerful mayor, who does what he wants at all stages. And whatever he doesn't want to pass, he doesn't pass and whatever he wants to pass, he goes through the Economic Commission and the Committee on Quality of Life. So the people's mandate was forfeited, you canceled the municipal council and the president of the community is canceled, as is the council of the community. Now let's go to the famous asylum of the Ministry of Education. What does asylum mean? It means free movement of ideas. We all know. It means freedom of expression, freedom of creation, freedom of teaching. This concept of asylum, which I think is acceptable to everyone and must be guaranteed by the state, especially in recent years, but in particular, from '74 onwards, it has begun and cancelled. The concept of asylum means, according to many false progress, that every illegal person must enter the university, in the field of higher education institutions, do what illegality wants, blackmail, stop teaching, come to sell drugs, children, students cannot move freely and walk at night. And we say, well, it's good - at least that's what SYRIZA and the KKC say - no one's bothered there. No, the illegality has to be struck. The police must intervene, where they have to intervene, when crimes are committed or offences are committed. We have not tabled an amendment. We are still going further, because we have not seen that. The penalties must be severed, both in the offences and in the felony, when they are carried out in the field of universities. Let's go to Article 95 in the Criminal Code. Why does the words 'protest of the country' suddenly change with the words 'insult of the country'? Is there a special reason? We all say - and the New Democracy also said - that the Prespecies Agreement is a betrayal agreement. You said so, gentlemen of the New Democracy. But now you do not come to see with thirty signatures - ten we have, twenty others - whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs or someone else carried out this act. Instead, we change the phrase 'dueness of the country' and we put 'insultation of the country'. Finally, I come to Rule 101, an amendment to the Competition Committee. It is not wrong when we say that there must be incompatibility. There must be incompatibility. One cannot, in other words, be in a party office, be in the Prime Minister's office, be in a Minister's office, and immediately thereafter enter the Competition Committee as president, vice-president or member. This must end, as should judges, not take up government posts immediately after their retirement. But that's the retrospective one. You want to finish with Mrs Thanou. I don't care about Mrs. Thanos. I don't have anything good or bad with her. Once you want to finish Mrs Thanos for your own reasons, you come and put on retrospectiveness. Do you have the impression, Minister, that retrospectiveness will benefit? Only in dictatorial and authoritarian regimes is this. Retrospectiveness must not apply. I think you should see it right, seriously. I don't take Mrs. Thanou's side or I don't care. I'm telling you about everything, which needs to get into one class. Our democracy has principles and rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Bakadima has the floor from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today, discussing the third piece of legislation of the Government which comes to the House with the characterisation of urgency, thus showing its urgency, going through three important bills in so many days, the first being classified as 'urgent' - the tax, we all remember it - and the third is what we are discussing today and the most likely to be voted on tomorrow, so that only the final state can pass through the whole process, both the committee responsible and here in plenary. However, during the preparation of this joint meeting of the Committees on Public Administration and Education, the procedure was clearly hasty, mainly because of the large extent of the legislation under discussion which, unfortunately, did not allow for a thorough and in-depth discussion, particularly on the articles. And the second reason is that the Members who participated in other committees, who should also be there, should respond and participate in the debate on the articles on which they were responsible, was not invited. Looking more closely at the bill, we see that many important issues are included in a beastly creation that deals with heterogeneous issues, such as university asylum, digital governance, local government, civil protection, issues of the Ministries of Health, Labour and Economics, and many others that go together for legislation and discussion. From the point of view of the issues that make up the draft law, you will allow me to choose and focus on the issue of Regional Policy Coordinators. As mentioned in Article 93, each region is set up as a Regional Policy Coordinator to assist the regional manager, hired under a fixed-term private-law contract, and the post is paid directly by the regional manager. Theoretically, since the role of coordinator is to help the district manager, it would not be completely unreasonable for him to choose a partner, who would help him in such an important periphery, since we live in a country where civil protection is necessary and, as we have all seen in time, it is a matter that is suffering. After all, we have seen it in all the events that have taken place in recent years. But what is surprising and reaction from us? The fact that after the last self-government elections New Democracy won 90% of the regions. It remains a rhetorical question, and I imagine that we will never get an answer, whether we would have had to discuss the same article, if this had not happened. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] It can therefore be easily understood that the practice we have seen and all the previous legislations continue. What many other colleagues, apart from me, have supported from this step, is the question of the growth of the party army, through additional recruitments that come clearly under political criteria and through all opaque procedures. In accordance with the relevant article, Article 93 only requires one public notification before the regulator decides, if he has of course not made a decision. So after the presidency of the government and all the services that the state has created, the same practice continues, without it being clear here how the jobs created will be served. Indicative example - and I shall refer to another point in the Multi-Project - are the provisions of digital governance, as referred to in Article 55,'staff positions may be covered by secondment of officials', leaving a blunt of what kind these posts can be covered. Could we at least have an answer to this so crucial question, even now? In conclusion, I would like to return to the issue of civil protection and express a hope that can be a wishful desire: whether we can now manage to shield and prepare our country sufficiently, perhaps even through this creation of the coordinating civil protection body, so that we can stop measuring damage, even mourning victims of all natural disasters. As you can see, the last point is that Mera25 will vote against this project in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u256	We too thank Mrs Bakadima, Mrs Bakadima, especially for respecting the limits. SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman Mr Janakopoulos asked for the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u257	Thirty seconds, Mr. President. I have here the list of speakers, where there has not been a proportional distribution, so that the Members of the Group of the European People's Party will alternate themselves with the Members of the European Democratic Alliance. In previous bills in the programming statements and also in the debate on the final state, an effort was made and in consultation with the Bureau there was a rotation of the speakers, so that political dialogue, opposition, opposition between counter-population and co-population can also be assisted. Here I count sixty-eight speakers on the New Democracy side - I mean on the majority side - and sixty speakers on the opposition side, which means that there can be an arrangement on the list so that speeches can be rotated and we do not have evolving monologues. The first is that. I think that, with the help of the Bureau, a new list can be drawn up, in which this change can take place. The second question concerns the fact that it has already been tabled by the Communist Party, but new proposals for a roll-call vote may also be tabled. Before we move to the second circle of speakers - because the first circle of speakers was closed - we must consult ourselves on the procedure at the end of the procedure until when we will continue in plenary so that everyone can organise the time of his speech accordingly. I think it is crucial that we discuss this for at least two, three minutes and find a corollary that covers all sides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u258	Would you excuse me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u259	Yeah, and I'll answer that later. Just before you take the floor, Minister, I would like to say to Mr Janakopoulos that all this arrhythmia that is now being created with the lists is mainly due to the fact that electronic cards have not come out and that we are therefore sticking to the statements and making an effort. I think with the electronic cards that will come out there won't be that matter. So in the first part of your speech, that's the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u260	No, I didn't ask...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u261	With regard to the second, from what I asked the Secretariat, we still do not know whether the Communist Party of Greece will apply for a nominal. He expressed his intention. We'll see. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u262	Mr President, we agree, of course, that there should be a change of Members and, indeed, we agree. That's how it's always been, so it's good now. What we are interested in is that everyone should be able to speak and I think that the Bureau will take care, so that the nominals too, if they are tabled, can be able to get rid of the list. That is the desire of the Government. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u263	Mr Minister, if the time is respected by the Members, they will speak much more, because I must inform you that it is a hundred and twenty-four colleagues who want to speak. If you do not want to go too late tomorrow and go to the vote again at 11.00 p.m. and at 12.00 p.m., the time has to be observed so that this issue can be settled. I will now give the floor to the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr George Kamine.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mr President. Let me also express my emotion, because for the first time I take the floor from this sacred Step. We have observed in life that very often, long-term opponents begin to look like each other. We now have some samples, after almost a month of government service after the July elections, and we see that the present government, the present majority, is somewhat mimicing the previous one on a very critical subject, whether the election announcements are respected and whether they are in line with the post-elections. We had heard election about a government - staff, a government small and flexible and we suddenly see a fifty-one member mammoth. We had seen the current government, the current government majority considered it unnecessary, the office of Prime Minister in Thessaloniki, and we are immediately seeing it coming and establishing it. I take these two examples from the executive - because that is why we are discussing today and that is the subject of discussion of the previous bill - to say that, unfortunately, we also see a mimic phenomenon in the field of local government. What do I mean? I mean, like the previous majority, we put the cart in front of the horse. I would like to say that anyone who wants to introduce long-term reform into the state should start from a rational distribution of responsibilities between the central state and local government. SYRIZA had all the time to do this during his term of office. But instead of finally moving towards normal decentralisation, it brought us to 'CLISTEN I', which was, in fact, a patch in 'CALICRATES', but which reversed the basic philosophy of the previous legislation. The 'Kalikratis' whether we like it or not has had a basic coherent philosophy. He had a mayor elected by universal suffrage, to whom he gave the means to carry out his programme. He was guaranteeing a majority of him, perhaps too much, but he was sure of it. And we have to understand that on the question of local government, the major issue is what we call "administrative". Command means efficiency. This is in no way consistent with the concept of a fragmented municipal council. The so-called democratic pretext of mere analogy has been exaggerated. Not even the elementary care was taken to put a threshold of 3% so that we do not have this absolute fragmentation of forces on the municipal council. We are forgetting one thing that, where the simple analogue is introduced, let us say at the level of the central state, at the level of the House, at least one government instability has the dissolution of the House. The Prime Minister may cause dissolution. The mayor - a municipal council that can't give him an absolute majority to implement his programme - doesn't have that weapon. He's doomed to coexist with a fragmented municipal council. That needed a cure. We should not, however, put the cart in front of the horses. You should have known for so long the problems that KLITHENIS would have caused you to have come and introduced a bill to Parliament, which would have cleared up first of all the issue of competences. First you clear up responsibilities and then build electoral systems, etc. So you come and you do this patch and you're trying something very difficult, of course, to introduce a logic of cybercrativity. And you cannot introduce it because you are going to do these programming partnerships, which should in fact be something very serious, should, in essence, be the programme with which the new majority will be able to run the municipality for the next four years, the programme which substantially replaces the mayor's election programme. Instead of bringing this as thoroughly as possible, establishing guarantees, which would be a programme with a few minimum guarantees of seriousness, you are actually coming and making a partnership which is simply submitted to the Bureau, which is signed by the members of the party groups and the end of history. On the contrary, there should be a basic political guarantee of seriousness, this programme should be discussed on the municipal council and - why not? - to be voted to see if there is a majority now with which the mayor can rule. We're talking about an ultimate state. We are, however, talking about a state which, in fact, will never work like this unless we move on to radical decentralisation, because we are living in a reality of a super-food central state in three different circles. The central government is above all over the board, because it has an atrocious local government with few responsibilities. In the second place, the Government with the fifty-one members is super-foodstuff. And now we are seeing a superfood office of Prime Minister. It's actually a reversed pyramid. There will be no final state unless we move on to a radical decentralisation of competences. And she should have brought her now as early as she is. Why? Because you're actually building a state, having the illusion that you're going to wage a tactical war. In fact, however, you'll have a guerrilla war to bring about. Why guerrilla war? Because you will have thirty-two mayors, of whom others will not want most of the responsibilities you will give them, and in particular, the power to impose the property tax on them because of political costs, and other mayors who will not want to remove them. Because if we go to metropolitan self-government, if we go this crazy shape of the Lecade with the sixty-six municipalities finally do a municipality, you'll find there mayors who resist this necessary measure. So this reform should have brought this much sooner. Allow me to say a few words on the famous asylum issue. The fact is that the editorial legislature did not explicitly establish the university asylum, while it did the opposite of the home asylum, and there was a debate in the House and its establishment was expressly rejected. However, there are two provisions in Article 16, which prompt us, and I would urge us to say that we are forced to adopt enhanced guarantees for the free movement of ideas and free teaching and research at the university. It is first of all the academic freedom established by the Constitution and, secondly, the full self-interest of higher education institutions. It is a fact - and I also lived as Mayor of Athens - that all three major universities we have in the centre of the city have a situation which is unacceptable. I am in favour of the public university, but of a public university which provides knowledge in decent conditions and thus ensuring the safety of all the actors in the university community. That is not the situation today. We know that very well. What should we do? I recommend to the Government that we see the provision which we have tabled, which, in many cases, reiterates the provision of Law 2009/2011, which provides for the possibility of intervention by police forces without any invitation from the university authorities, provided that criminal offences are committed and does not distinguish between criminal offences within the university and outside the university area - and I refer to trafficking and drugs - but only with repressive authority when crimes are committed. To prevent crimes you cannot rely on the university space to introduce the repression forces and patrol, as they can patrol or be present in any public space, any square or pedestrian street in a city. Universities are an area of freedom, academic freedom, which requires the free movement of ideas. This requires a stage of freedom that goes beyond the common freedom, because universities are places where innovative ideas will first appear, there will also show up the radical ideas that will promote science. We cannot, therefore, assimilate the space of universities to any public space. But look at provisions 6 and 8 of the Diamantopoulou Act. See how it arises from the self-employed that the university itself can be held responsible for having the property and the persons operating there. They will have the preventive authority to prevent criminal offences from being committed. So I urge you, Minister, to study these regulations, to introduce them, and I believe that you will be able to balance the necessary security, which must exist within the university spaces as a guarantee of freedom and, of course, freedom within the university spaces, which requires - bad lies - as I have said in some way before - freedom. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. There are young people, there must be a lively dialogue between actors and the university community, that is where new ideas are born, and that is where we cannot deal with this area with the same measures and standards as we face any public space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u265	Mr. Efstratios Simopoulos from New Democracy is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u266	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall tell you a little story. But it has to do with it. Ten years ago, in a lake somewhere on our planet, a group of fishermen saw that it couldn't succeed in fishing and it didn't work, because they couldn't tie the line to the hook properly. One of them went through his mind long enough, and he said there's probably a way to automatically tie the line to the hook. He sat, he was afflicted with a piece of wood and made a primitive mold. The next day he went to the university, to the Industrial Design School, where he had a friend. They sat a few days and improved that mold. Of course, it was not a mold that they could start a mass production. After a few days someone called from the State Finance Company for Research and Technology. He told him they could give him a loan, he would put EUR 25,000, and if in five years he had not managed to create a production line, he would not owe anything. If he had succeeded, they'd see from that moment on what they'd do. Well, he got kicked in the face at work. In the end, the mold was created and they had to go to industrial production. Then he saw it was very difficult, because an accessory had only production in Japan. The same agency came in and proposed to him a feture capital. This feature capital would enter a partner, he would have the majority of the shares and become the production. She accepted immediately. This company came ten years ago to produce and export to the world a million and a half such machines. What country are we talking about? In Finland, ladies and gentlemen, with five million people! Why am I saying all this? Because first of all, the whole process had the university, where this company could find private financing and make the mold. So we had to link the universities to production. So here comes the asylum. Yeah, the asylum's coming in. I know many examples in Thessaloniki that such efforts could not be fruitful. Organised minorities come and such efforts are destroying them. And the JRC says: 'Such efforts are the ones that serve, they are against the struggle of the people'. I fully understand that. But does SYRIZA, referring to innovation constantly, to entrepreneurship - do we hear of linking universities to entrepreneurship - does it not see that they cannot go ahead with the way asylum works today? Therefore, apart from the fact that our universities are an outbreak of crime, one side of the issue is the inability to link entrepreneurship and industry to research and technology. Finally, what I want through this process also to understand mainly to SYRIZA, because they mentioned it in the programme statements, is that this service which is in Finland belongs to the Ministry of Development and not to education. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, I should like to say to Mr Kamine that the government has kept the Prime Minister's office in Thessaloniki for one single reason. It has to deal with strengthening the branding of Greek products because of the Ambassadors' agreement. That will be the role of the Prime Minister's office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mr Simopoulos. Mr. Andreas Koutsoubas is being called by the New Democracy. Then will the Special Rapporteur of Mera25 speak to Mrs Sophia Sakorafa. Mr. Kutsuba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u268	Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot doubtless rely on all the points in the bill in detail. As far as the legislative improvements made to local and regional government are concerned, I would say that they are also in the right direction by transferring the view of the self-government of my region. They need a change for the proper operation. There's probably a better plan, we'll see it in the future. With regard to the issues of the Ministry of Justice of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure which came to be voted on, I would like to say that although there were some provisions in the right direction that need to be reviewed, as, Mr President, and some other provisions that need to be abolished by specific criminal laws, I will focus on my position only on university asylum. Of course I heard Mr Kamine's parliamentary representative here earlier. I have heard a bold, dangerous view that there are two kinds of freedoms - you have heard - the freedom which we all enjoy here and the people outside - and a peculiar one - I shall use the term - excellent freedom which must be enjoyed by those who are inside the university. Hazardous opinion, I'd say. However, I will continue. I will try to express my thoughts about university asylum, borrowed - not by stealing, Mr President - some thoughts that correspond to you, some of the views expressed by my fellow Member at the time and today by the President of this House, Mr Tasoulas with an article, borrowed and identified with these views. Let's put this on the right basis. And how do we put it on his right base? If we're gonna say, if we all look and see what we mean by university asylum. What's the constitutional rule? As regards the constitutional recognition and protection of academic freedom, within the framework of a fully self-government - in matters relating essentially to it - of a higher university institution What is an academic freedom? It is the freedom of teaching, research, free expression of opinions, the freedom of teachers to define the content of teaching but also the freedom of students to process, disagree, express, criticise and decide. This freedom is the form of university asylum, which must not be an asylum but an asylum of ideas, an asylum which ensures pluralism and creates a barrier to any attempt at state or other kind of guarding or policing university life. So the questions which he disagrees with are simply: When we have unlawful actions, violations, criminal acts carried out by those who are either in the university or those who enter the university, a disaster of public property - which the people are paying for - so that the mission of university asylum is not carried out, do these acts have to be covered by asylum? That's what you need to answer. Is it simply at the discretion of power, the state or any other authority to intervene or not to intervene or have a right and duty to intervene to enforce order and law? Ladies and gentlemen, can one say today that intervention to prevent either the suppression of criminal acts carried out in the university or the application of the law, which requires the Constitution itself to implement, leads to the abolition of this asylum, abrogation of self-determination? I wonder: In the sense of self-interest, did you hear a university or an interpretative statement of the constitutional rule, which established asylum, saying that the self-sufficiency of universities is determined by the fact that it is self-sufficient to oversee the class with police or other institutions? Does he say that anywhere? If we accept this, ladies and gentlemen, the exercise of state power, as the dear President of Parliament said at the time, is indivisible throughout the country and would therefore be a self-institution of his mission not to impose order, security within the university. And that's why? Because this does not constitute a abolition of the self-sufficiency of university asylum and HEIs, it consists only of the formal separation of the functions of the university, the functions of the higher education institutions, but also of the recognition of teachers to decide on their own for the work and what they decide on at the university, which is related to research and technology. We all have to agree today that asylum has been diverted. We have a duty and responsibility to prevent that. We owe this to the younger generation, unless you consider the continuation of the culture of impunity and violence to be progressive and democratic. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll close, Mr. President. I've never abused my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u269	Mr. Kutsuba, I just closed the sound so you don't mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u270	I'm done. I do not hope and hope to convince you politically to vote for this provision or emotionally. I just want to remind you and I will read to you a student's letter: "I have been told that I can't do much in my life. At first I was told: "You're not going to college. Farmer is your father. What do you want with the university?" And yet I did it, and I went to college. Then they said to me: "My son, you can't go to university, we can't afford it." I did, though. I got a job every day and a weekend. Within the university since the first day they said to me: "You will not go to these places, you will not speak freely in front of them, you will turn your back on drug trafficking, the curfew, the violence, and if you see a fellow student beat him, say "I was still lucky I was not." Well, I didn't do any of this. And in places where I shouldn't have gone and with people who shouldn't have disagreed with my friends, because you have to stand up to fear and insecurity, against violence and lawlessness and make it clear that the university is for all those who believe in free movement of ideas and not substances, and for all those who have worked hard to reach the doors of the university and for all of us who have told us that we can't pursue a better life." So the issue goes beyond the limits of any political area. It's a mature demand of times. We are not abolishing asylum. We're protecting it. Madam Minister, the term'repeal' is unnecessarily inappropriate. It is protection of asylum and not abolition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u271	The Special Rapporteur of Mera25 Mr. Sophia Sakorafa is called in Stepma. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are again dealing with old practices that we hoped were overtaken. The bill contains issues completely irrelevant to each other without substantial cohesion. It is also presented in the context of the urgent procedure, so that there can be as little social consultation as possible. Already the title of the draft law describes the chaos of the provisions which form it, urgent provisions of the Ministries of Home Affairs, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Culture and Sport, Justice, Digital Governance and Tourism. As it has been ready for some time, the government has tabled two multi-brands, reflecting, in a clear and clear manner, its view of the functioning of democracy and the functioning of the state. I have told the committee that they deserve congratulations to the close staff of the Prime Minister and not the government, of course, because I am sure that no Minister has contributed to these two bills, unless it belongs to this close staff I mentioned earlier. I congratulate them, because they have been crafted for four whole years in the opposition, but also in the run-up to the public, for their intrigue, by dressing up their views with expressions such as 'governance', 'effectiveness','simplification of procedures', 'civil service', etc. They are now coming with these two multi-brands on the echo of their election prevalence and in an emergency environment, of course, in view of both summer holidays and the start of the new parliamentary term, without any suspension or even beauty, to apply what was hidden behind fine words. The draft law on the final state essentially establishes a parallel public administration of poster and day-to-day workers under the absolute control of the Prime Minister. In fact, any improvement at institutional level could be made to public administration. They want to present it as a step forward, but it's actually a lot of steps backwards. The attempt to impose the government majority on the institutions, the performance of public-private assets and rights, and even uncontrollably, the creation of a dictatorial order in the body of public administration and so on. All of this is done in the name of efficiency, without regard for whether it is in this way degraded and even more devalued by the public as an overall living organism with unforeseen negative consequences. Indirect but almost clear, the state is promoting the political aim of the New Democracy, as is the current twin of the bill. It is the private sector that needs to be active and take on a very large proportion of the public services, of course, while citizens will continue to pay the same and higher taxes, for services they should pay back to the private sector. At the same time, private individuals will benefit from the transfer of public material and rights, and to this end, the possibility of transferring these rights is moderated without institutional control. It is true that the New Democracy, of course, has never concealed its view and intentions at least in recent years. It has, however, diligently concealed both its size and its intensity and its methodology of application. Even today, knowing very well what interests it serves and the adverse effects that the implementation of this policy will have for citizens, it hides it under the sign of the state of service. The necessary complement to the implementation of this policy is the draft law that we are debating today. It is clearly serving the exact same target. Here the truth lies under the noble title "Consolidations of the Ministry of Interior, provisions on digital governance and other urgent matters". Because, yes, we have set up our own parallel state, but there are also these destructive democratic institutions, such as the elections that produce results, which we hypothetically have to respect, but for the New Democracy this is not an obstacle. If the institutions do not serve us, the worse for the institutions. The Government raises a question of the governance of TAs following the last elections, which took place with simple proportionalness and with Law 4555/2018. According to the government, especially in cases where the mayor is elected by the second round, this means that the municipality is unable to administer it, and so this must be changed with a small one - let me express the expression - a coup after election - that is by giving the mayor the power himself and his party, regardless of matters of majority and minority within the municipal council. The word 'coup d'état' has been degraded from its multipurpose in exaggeration schemes, but when a law removes powers from elected majority voting and places them in minority groups within one institution, how else can we call it apart from a small coup? From Article 1 to 15 simply abolishing the results of the recent self-government elections and canceling the expressed will of the citizens by means of articles of the law. First of all, it is implemented with this bill. It orders the majority of the results to be interpreted in Article 1 and we have here an unprecedented anti-democratic prediction that a consortium of municipal orders cannot be revoked. Withdrawal of the law, Articles 2 and 3, by the Economic Committee. The law alters the powers of elected bodies, Article 5(9)d and 7e, which relates to the Community Councils, which had decisive powers and now consultative powers. And finally, the law defines a new rule of what it means to a majority. All this, however, just two months after the self-government elections. I say it as kindly as I can, and I said it in committee. What's the New Democracy saying? He tells the citizens: 'I don't care, I don't even count on who and why and how you voted on them, I rename the results of the elections with articles of law'. So the question is, what is it? Are there solutions? Are there solutions that are practicable? The answer is 'yes'. We have too many examples and I will mention one, ladies and gentlemen. The name is Ada Colau, Mayor of Barcelona. It is an extremely successful mayor within a simple analogue system, where newly elected municipal councillors are the ones who elect the mayor. Merra25 will therefore legislate on participatory, national, regional and local councils combining the draw with parliamentary self-government and creating collective decision-making institutions, which the oligarchy will never be able to control and which enable undivided, social control and which allow socialisation, i.e. privatization without privatization. If you bring in a separate debate, we will have more to talk about self-government, on the issues I mentioned earlier. So that is what you see in the rest of the bill, that is to say, that we are indifferent to the separation of powers, but also to the control of the administration. By means of tricks you release the transfer of public rights from the pre-contractual audit of the Court of Auditors, such as Article 56 with the HR and Article 58. You ignore even the usual procedure, when you legalise all pending payments of public hospitals, by replacing even justice in Articles 78 and 79. You despise the incompetent which - listen, listen! - they shall cease to be an impulse if the 4/5 of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency so decides in Article 101. So I shall refer in detail shortly when I get into the articles, but it is enough what I have said to show the real intentions of the new government, authoritarianism, the beginning of a man, all to me, in my view, and the hypocritical functioning of democratic institutions and gradual privatization of the state. It is so obvious that our necessary conclusion does not claim any originality. The new prime ministerial regime is so insecurity, which has no confidence in the government itself and is insecurity against its own parliamentary group, in its own government. I particularly want to stand on two points. The first is the direction you follow in the Greek. I will repeat what I said in the retrograde. I mentioned in the programme statements in time-to-date discreet - not to say something heavier - dealing with the Latsis group from all the governments so far. I said that you were following exactly the same methodology as the MALL. Mr Georgiadi' s colleague, then, had considered it a single one - look, ladies and gentlemen, the two independent plots that separated them from the road, in order to build more square ones since he wanted it, and not even a derogating factor. Today, as a government, what are you doing? You are using the invention of the approval of a section - take care of a section - within a zone and you understand, as everyone you know from town planning, that this means gradually altering the original draft delivered by the private sector and approved by the current Parliament. And you do this in order to overcome even the minimal specic obstacles that SYRIZA's law put on, so that the investor can do whatever he wants and what he wants. Of course, as I said, the final stage will have nothing to do with the initial stage. I therefore confirm in my speech yesterday in plenary. Now the issue of asylum. I will say what I have said to the committee, because I think it is very important. I refuse to enter procedural disputes because they have nothing to do with this. I would just like to point out, not to denounce, the refusal to comply with the existing law, both the security authorities and, above all, - and I address them - the rector authorities, who, if they had carried out their duties, as provided for and imposed by the existing law, would have prevented all these extreme phenomena which give a grip on this unacceptable regulation of the New Democracy. And since I have seen some of the prefectures, which were not the day before yesterday, which we invited them to the committee, to defend the proposed regulation, I would like to have all due respect on their faces and on their part, to point out to them that this is the first time since the establishment of universities in the Greek state, the ones who should have been their eminent defenders, to have the self-interest of the universities abolished. Now, as far as asylum is concerned, I would point out to the Minister for Education that the public space you call for is subject to many restrictions on freedom of expression with all appearances, and even according to what the authority in question defines. Let me remind you in the past - you were a little younger and perhaps you didn't catch up with me - extreme situations. I would remind you of what "published periodically" meant and what was the case with the anti-subsidy law. Some people in here may remember them. I therefore have to state publicly that this possibility within the university asylum system of expressing precisely these extreme and non-regulatory social ideas and I believe that, the possibility for every citizen and not just students and teachers, Minister, of being able within university asylum to consider, investigate and even provoke social status, is the quinturity of democracy, but, above all, it is the minimum oxygen at a time when democracy and democratic institutions are intensified. Use methodically the confiscation of public universities, aiming, among other things, at the implementation of reactionary idealism for the abolition of asylum. But really? The university asylum prevents you from stopping the blockage? Does university asylum prevent you from fighting drug trafficking? Have you cleaned up all the dishes and left these universities? Is that where the famous lawlessness is maintained? I would urge you - because my office is next to the Polytechnic - and you, Mrs. Minister, and the Minister of Health and the Minister of Public Order to take a walk around the Polytechnic, the museum, Stournaris Street, to see and see all how they are pushing human shadows, people who are sick and need help from road to road, because they disturb their aesthetics and their gaze. And that's been happening for years. It's not a process that's been going on lately. That's where I think you should start. We will wait, after you are done with them, for you to present in future other initiatives and for the real problems of higher education, such as sub-financing, the deficit of buildings and other infrastructures, the exploitation of the possibilities for upgrading research, etc. We as a PART25, as the head of staff told us, have a proposal and submitted it to you in programming. Now, I don't know, Mr. President, if I can talk to two, three minutes on the articles?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u273	You can. You have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u274	Not to mention Article 1, because it has to do with local selfgovernment. We have been through this, Mr President. To go a little to Article 2, where the municipal council's essential and regulatory powers are transferred to the economic committee as if it were a super-institution whose creation relied on by medals. At all costs a majority of the mayor and without any other legitimacy. And the anti-democratic plan is completed with the cancellation of the term of office of anti-democrats and of elected Vice-democrats in Article 5. You despise the elected local councils, as I said before, which, while they were voted on as decisive bodies, you turn them into mere constituencies, rapporteurs, and in many cases cancel the electoral process and the citizens' own participation. In Articles 8 to 12, jurisdiction is conferred on the Executive Committee and the Economic Committee, which disguise the scope of action and decision of the municipal councils, and they are obviously completely less than that at the level of its democratic legitimacy. All interventions in local government are completed in Article 12, with the invention of a new type of majority which seems to cancel and prevent any possibility of dialogue and composition between proposals. Unfortunately, I also told the committee that you found good ground thanks to the clandestineness with which SYRIZA adopted the law on simple analogues. In Articles 20 and 55, positions of Heads and Directors-General shall be established with the provision of organisational low base schemes without any interest in creating operational structures, in line with what administrative science requires. The intention, obviously, is to create responsibilities even without functional utility, that is to say, to settle personal ambitions. In Article 20(5), you also operate anti-constitutionally, since you want to define that the Agency and the responsibilities of the Special Management and Applications Department of Technology, Information and Communications Sector, which are obviously not a more specific issue or a matter of local interest or of a technical or detailed nature, will be defined by simple CSR and not at least by a Presidential Decree, as required. I shall now conclude, Mr President. In Articles 56 and 60, it is apparent that the underlying real purpose is to enter private individuals in all ways into the fragmented public material. In Article 56, for example, HRP may transfer to individuals who will no longer be subject to the pre-contractual audit of the Court of Auditors. The same is done with the Hellenic Documentation Centre and the Greek Space Centre. In Article 78, you are entitled to arrest all outstanding payments of supplies of public hospitals. How is that possible? Even those who are pending before justice. So someone can take an invoice because he writes, for example, five euros over. The court considers that this is not right. However, it has to be paid. We don't understand how this is going to happen. Articles 80 and 81 provide for the possibility of paying the rebate and clawback in a hundred and twenty instalments. What for? I tried through what I read, to understand why you're doing this. We would like to hear the reasoning. In Articles 91 and 92, a non-functional mechanism is created. And that could have devastating effects. Another participation in the intended body, and indeed with decision-making and related objects, private companies or NGOs, voluntary organisations, etc. Only questions can the possible role of all of this in decision-making give birth. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that it is clear that the nominating ministers and the step taken by this bill is not only intended but are completely indifferent in the recruitment of any relevant consensus. It is obvious that we cannot vote for this bill. However, in exceptional cases, we shall vote for specific articles which we individually consider to be in the right direction. And these are Articles 72 and 74. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, too. Mr. Kotrias Georgios from New Democracy is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u276	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are obviously here to produce legislative work. We here certainly define the institutional framework for the functioning of the municipalities. It is, however, local government that will apply it to citizens day after day and that is what will ultimately be judged by them for the result. I am saying this because, with the joint meetings of the committees, I have seen from the opposition a tendency to downgrade the need for cybercrificy, provoking the alleged circumvention of mere proportionateness. But let's see what we're talking about. Except for the election of municipal councillors, neither the presidents of the small communities nor the presidents of the larger communities nor the mayors are elected on a simple analogue basis. The very popular title "simply proportional" was intended to give prestige to "KLITHENI", and to hide the political objective of this law that was, given the overwhelming majority of the representatives of centre-rights in self-government, to give a role to the few self-government executives of SYRIZA who would not have entered the municipal councils or in any case would have a mere representation. So since the spurious reference to the simple analogue collapses and is undone by the law itself, let's see what adverse effects KLETHENIS has on the operation of the municipalities. Except for the municipalities that were elected mayors from the first Sunday and again not to everyone, the mayor as a rule does not have the necessary absolute majority and some are minority with obvious inability to make difficult decisions and therefore smooth as a result of the functioning and performance of work for the citizens. You know, it is worth noting that a specific political culture has been established in municipal councils over the years, which can obviously have something to do with our political history, but - let me say - even with our self-consciousness as a people. I have been a mayor for four years constantly in Lamia, and despite my desire for consensus, never any of the other four or five that were at times in existence did not vote for a budget or a technical programme. Then, of course, the law gave an absolute majority to the mayor's party and could be voted on and the municipality has a budget and operate. And for those who do not know, without a specific budget, no fuel, no spare parts, no light bulbs, no asphalt, no dirt for the workers and no pin! There's a stop to everything. Does anyone believe in this first application of the 'CLINKEN' that by magic and without a similar incentive, the groups would change mentality and from many times abusive not them, would they compose proposals and vote for a budget, a technical programme, an action programme and an operational plan? Some people who in a blurred way said that between rulership and democracy prefer the second one, apparently aimed at his political sensitivity through listener and act as if they had never exercised command. The bill obviously combines governance and democratic function clearly and clearly. It favours the participation of members of the public in the decision-making process of the CoR in the decision-making process of the CoR. And it obviously provides for participation and partnership with the mayor's resignation, because he wants to ensure rulership. I don't understand. Does it forbid the co-operation of the rest of us? Of course not! But what effect can they produce? The co-operation of the mayor's party with others, however, creates a viable majority in municipal councils. At the same time, it gives the necessary majority of committees, legal persons and municipal undertakings to produce a project. At the same time, however, it gives and upgrades the role of the municipal council, which is now in contact with the substance. And every municipal party will not just give a positive or negative vote, but will be able to counter-proposal. And if the absolute majority of the municipal council, which is elected simply proportional, agrees, then that this counter-proposal should be accepted and the budget shaped.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u277	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u278	Wait a minute, Mr President, it is my maiden speech. Forgive me. Of course, if the majority of the municipal council do not approve the proposal, the legislator does not condemn the municipalities in inappropriate and endless negotiations but accepts the proposal of the Economic Commission and the municipality with a specific budget is working. This process is not only undemocratic but helps groups to operate responsibly and puts it into a logic of producing proposals and a culture of cooperation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u279	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u280	I shall conclude, Mr President. The New Democracy, through the oral Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has made it clear in every direction that it is based on and looking forward to creative cooperation with the degree of self-government 1 and 2, which it considers to be a fundamental factor in regional development. It is self-evident that the mayor and the district may be able to implement the programme for which he was voted upon and judged for its actions, but since we are giving him the institutional capacity today to make decisions. This bill gives him this possibility, directly corrects the shortcomings of 'KLITHEN' and serves the common interest, which is no longer in the interests of all citizens, whom we here this evening also represent. Thank you very much and apologise for the abuse.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u281	It's okay. There is a tolerance from the parliamentary representatives for the new Members but to a certain extent, so that everyone can speak. I would now ask Mr Lazarides to take the floor. Then there are three MPs all over SYRIZA...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u282	Mr President, can I have the floor for ten seconds only?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u283	We are not doing anything else, Mr Janakopoulou, let us not come back. We'll see, the result will be the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u284	You say, Mr President, that the request that the government has accepted is rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u285	But the government's not in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u286	I know, but he's not answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u287	Here, you have the floor, Mr Lazarides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I could not start by commenting on a report by Mr Polakis to the Minister for the Interior, Mr Theodorikos. You said, Mr Polakis, as a bad thing, that Mr Theodorikos went through the CNN. This sounds to me as a title of honor, when even great leaders such as Constantine Mitsotakis, along with historians of the Left, Charilaos Florakis and Leonidas Kyrikos, acted with national reconciliation. Do you know what's bad and tragic?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u289	...(Not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u290	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u291	You must state in public and admit, Mr. Polakis, that as mayor you had double books. That's bad and tragic. So if the revolution, ladies and gentlemen, which the country needs, is the revolution of common sense, then it starts here today. And I say this because most of the arrangements we have before us are of course reasonable. They are mutually acceptable and are socially demanded. Why? Because they simply put the citizen at their centre. Because they put an end to the distortions that made his life a bicycle, which, unfortunately, dismantled the attention of the previous government. The second important feature of what we are debating today is that this is a legislation of consistency of words and actions. Today we are legislating several of the flagrant election commitments of our Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, as they were adopted by 40% of the Greek people and in this way we prove that we are not all the same. That there are politicians who promise, they do it and they do it. That is how people's trust is gaining. This restores the credibility of policy. That's how democracy gets rich. Let me explain codified to what I am talking about. As far as local government is concerned, I understand that you are ignoring one thing: Governance of OTAs means stability and stability means capacity to implement a program. This also implies an obligation to account to the citizens. So the democratic process cycle is being completed smoothly. To you, of course, are fans of Mao's term 'big turbulence, wonderful state', that is not pleasurable. It's ruining your yeast. I get it. You who invest in instability obviously don't want anything to change. We, however, who are investing in stability, with this initiative, are simply correcting the inconsistency of your law 4555, between the expressed popular will and the distribution of seats, which makes the hereditary labor of possible transactions and perhaps blackmails. Yeah, well, they're changing the data. And they're changing the data, not from ynati. We are changing them for the benefit of the citizens and of society, which you are allegedly interested in. Beyond that, I would suggest, Minister - not Mr Theodorikos - that we all see, together with soberness and other proposals, which bring us, I think, closer to the clearest picture of the will of the people and the realistic ability to govern the OTAs. After all, we are committed that there will be an extensive debate both with the Association of Regions of Greece and with the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece before we bring in a new electoral law on OTAs. I put on an outline some of my thoughts, which I consider to be useful at this particular juncture. I therefore think that we need to see the five-year reinstatement of the OTA and the immediate assumption of the duties of regional and mayors. The model of the transitional period failed and creates many problems. Let us see the release of the elections to the EBRD from national or European elections. I'm moving on to the next zealot. University asylum. I won't say much. I'm just going to ask a question if you want personal experience. Is this university for which every Greek family is financially bleeding to send her child? Is this the university we want? I'm saying it's not even once or twice that my big daughter, Ebelina, and her classmates and classmates have not even been able to get in or much more of a lesson at the University of Athens because of serious misconduct. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And let me say something, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u292	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u293	My big daughter Ebelina, like Constantina, is very proud to have me a father. Because you told us something the other day about our children.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u294	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u295	Why are you interrupting? Please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u296	I am talking about serious violations of human rights, drug trafficking, trafficking, the use of the university as a base or shelter, and the basis for organizing and supporting criminal activities. Does this have anything to do with asylum ideas? I'm asking. We, Commissioners, are in favour of the asylum of the free movement of ideas, not of drug trafficking and of all kinds of reasoning, which you have been discussing through Mr Toska. So I don't get far, I'm closing up. It is very important for a new Member, and in particular for a Member of the Greek region, to participate in this legislative process. And that is quite simply because I can see my constituents in Kavala in the eyes. I will be able to go to the cafes of Lefkoni, Eleftheropolis, Chrysopolis, Podochoriou and tell my friends Nikos, Vasilis, Andrea, Alekos, "Here, here, where we did this for you...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u297	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u298	...as we had announced, without "but" and "if". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u299	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u300	Here you go, Mr. Polakis. Why are you asking for a reason?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u301	Didn't you understand the staff, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u302	Did you say personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u303	For personal, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u304	To what is the staff? In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, for a minute you can tell us what the staff consist of and if they are personal, you will be given the floor to develop it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u305	Didn't you understand that, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u306	You'll say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u307	He said from the House Step for double funds, and we need to answer, because he accused me of double books.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u308	If you would like to read Rule 68 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u309	I want the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u310	What you're gonna say first.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u311	The false charge.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u312	We will respect the Rules of Procedure. That's how it's done. To what is the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u313	I said it three times.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u314	What is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u315	The double county charge I had as Mayor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u316	Did you say that? I don't understand. The staff is if you are rendered reproach.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u317	The speaker previously accused me of double cash in the municipality. And because it is a category that is often repeated by the media, which was also responsible for contacting Mr Mitsotakis - now also became a Member - I want to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u318	That was a crisis. It wasn't excitement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u319	Can I answer that now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u320	What's the hybrid?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u321	He called him a thief. This is slander, Mr President. You're a prosecutor. You don't know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u322	Well, listen, Mr. Lazarides. First of all, good term.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u323	Listen, read Article 68(1). The violation...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u324	Is that what we're gonna do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u325	Staff shall consist of two cases. Or there's a reproach that also involves abusive behavior...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u326	Hey, that's it, isn't it? What is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u327	Or you're assigned a different opinion. Explain what it is about.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u328	Listen, Mr. Lazaridis, first, you have been the contact director of Mr. Mitsotakis since 2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u329	In 2016. You don't know well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u330	You've written it in your CV. You wrote in 2017. Correct it and do it 2016. Seeing your first place, I understand from whom the truth group was taking orders to make every three and a few different lies, which he threw as mud in the fan and for me and for many others. That's the first.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u331	You know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u332	Secondly, with regard to the double-fund story - which I have said in public - you have searched eighteen generations horizontally and thirty-two generations at once and found nothing at all. Because if you'd found it, we'd have posters around here, and you'd have hung us in our handkerchiefs, just like you were hanging us for the lies. To cut off this conversation, because I told the CEDEFOP, in 2012, when you had thrown a huge axe into the central self-resources of the municipalities, restored by our government, in Sfakia - you know - we did not have the multi-powered regional office, the second we have built now - and the first I made it, when I took over as mayor in 2011 - but neither a doctor nor a nurse nor the elementary health material. The double fund, as I have said many times, was recommended, because I convinced the Sfakians, instead of the funeral wreaths, to deposit the money in an account of the municipality that I was and two vice mayors and to pay a municipal doctor, a municipal nurse...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u333	You've become clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u334	Wait a minute, Mr President, don't interrupt me. Did you hear that? Did you hear? First time you hear it? That's how society was kept then.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u335	Are others doing it, like you did?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u336	Here are your own self-government... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Listen to them. When you say something, you must hear the answer by the end. A number of self-government, your people from New Democracy are proud - and they are right - that during the crisis those who held the local communities upright were the municipalities, who through whatever power they had and the financial capacity supported. How do you think they did it then? Officially? Ask them to tell you how they did it. That's why modest and humble.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u337	Mr Zarifopoulou has the floor. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, ladies and gentlemen, do not engage in dialogue between you. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very honoured to be here today and from the Step of the House for the first time to address the National Representation. I am addressing this House to support the provisions of the bill setting out the responsibilities and structure of the new Ministry of Digital Governance. And we consider this structure of the new ministry to be necessary, so that we can implement the country's digital transformation. Where are we today in terms of the digital economy? According to the Digital Economic and Society Index, the Daisy Index, for 2019, our country is in the 20th-sixth place among the twenty-eight countries of the European Union. We're just over from Bulgaria and Romania. If we look at the individual indicators in terms of the digital services in the public sector, we fall on another position and we are in the twenty-seventh place. The red tape is too big. We are champions in Europe in bureaucracy. This bureaucracy costs us about 7% of GDP. So he wonders how in 2019 and with technology we are still so behind, we have so much bureaucracy and so poor digital services in the public sector. We certainly still have too many antiquated procedures. We have procedures which in many cases are unnecessarily composers and certainly a large part of the work done at the Ministry is these procedures to redesign and simplify them. However, even if we were to simplify all procedures, we have another big problem. The problem is that public systems do not work, they do not speak to each other. The information is therefore not transferred from one system and from one public body to the other public body and the citizen is asked to take over the role of the server of this information. We are asking, in other words, the citizens, those with their own physical presence and movement, and with many of their own lost man-hours and irritation, for the systems to function. We understand that this cannot continue any longer. So what should be done? What needs to be done is to centralise coordination, with a central coordinating body to bring these bodies and these systems together, in order to make them work out. And the previous government, following European standards, rightly set up a Ministry of Digital Policy, precisely in order for this ministry to play this effective, coordinating role. But it did not give me to this ministry the responsibilities and structure that would allow the Ministry to perform this role and achieve its goal. This is how we have so far fragmentation of digital competences. We've got a lot of coatings. We have actions which are fragmentary and generally there are very confusing lines. So this bill is coming to the new ministry to define precisely this organisational structure, responsibilities, the role in processing the data, in terms of interoperability, so that we can make these registers, these public systems work together and thus give digital services to the citizen. The eGovernment addresses remain, however, the Ministry takes on a coordinating role in a digital transformation committee, which participates in all these Directorates-General of the other bodies. This committee shall meet at regular intervals and with specific plan and horizontal actions the Ministry shall implement. It is not, therefore, a centralised model, as it has been heard in committees, but it is a better model of coordination and action quickly and immediately, in order to bring about results. After all, it is a model that has been successfully applied to other countries, advanced countries and, for example, I mention Great Britain and Estonia. I am going very quickly to the part of the book of digital transformation, where it does not matter so much - as the committees have mentioned - what we will call it, but what we will do with it. The previous government drafted a national digital strategy and that was a first attempt. If we look at this strategy, however, it is an attempt to cover everything, all areas of the public sector without priorities, without timetables. It focuses more on what and much less on how, to whom and to whom, in order to implement what is announced in the text. The digital transformation paper that we are about to draft will obviously illustrate the current situation, will obviously assess the unfinished projects, the compatible projects will obviously go ahead, but there will not be an explanatory text left. It will be a tool to implement the strategy, prioritising both short-term and medium-term actions, in cooperation with all actors, with the market, with social and political actors, but focusing on implementation, i.e. by dividing responsible, timelines deliverable, speaking very specifically about how to write the specifications, how to monitor the projects, how to implement it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u339	Please complete, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u340	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Please give me one more minute. From there on this book will be updated at regular intervals. It is a live tool, as I mentioned earlier, implementation and will lie on all the pillars of the Desi index, this index of the digital economy and society. It will not only concern itself with the pieces of digital public services but also with other pillars, such as the pillar of human capital and digital skills, where, in cooperation with the Ministries of Education and Labour - and with a coordinating role of our Ministry - we will try to create learning programmes in schools, universities, training programmes for the unemployed, for our fellow citizens of the third age, programmes on Internet safety and much more. Ladies and gentlemen, our aim is for all of us and all our citizens very quickly to feel tangible results and our lives with the help of technology to become simpler, easier in our relationship with the state.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u342	We need some concrete actions and I call on you to vote in favour of the relevant provisions of the bill. We have a lot of work to do, work, and not words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u343	Mrs Merope Jufi, a member of the SYRIZA, is called in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u344	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall refer exclusively to the regulations on education and research. Madam Minister of Education, we are closely following the initiatives you have taken and also the announcements you are making about education. Obviously, in this context, it is part of a flagrant and first provision, as has been said, of a symbolic nature, that university asylum should be abolished. But have you made many other announcements, such as the suspension of the two-year training programmes for PES graduates, the abolition of the possibility of free access to sections of universities, the reduction of admissions to the HEIs, the reintroduction of the '10' and above, at the discretion of the schools - on the basis of what data, in other words? - the deletions of students above 'n+2', while you know that they are not charged by institutions, as well as the introduction of examinations at all high school classes. So the conclusion, which is being drawn, is that you obviously have decided to go ahead with demolition of the work of the previous period. There are other things I would not like to mention. I hope that there will continue to be, like two-year-old pre-school education, the new PES, interventions in special education and so on. I would like to say that these reforms that you have already announced are obviously designed and targeted. I would describe them and deeply classic for the benefit of the private interests involved in education and training. A landscape is formed, dear Minister, so that the student can be judged unable to study at the public university on the basis of these exclusions, while being able to study in private college or private university abroad. There's no hypocrisy, is there, in this? In a similar way you proceeded to a regressive originality, distracting research from education. It is a move with many negative symbolisms but also functional weaknesses, as the Greek Research Association points out - whose communication I will present in the Minutes - which says that in the international practice conducted for decades in Europe - France, Germany, Norway, Sweden, the Netherlands, Italy, Spain and Russia - the sector is essentially linked to higher education. And that is a serious regression. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA as a government increased research expenditure to 1% of GDP, i.e. around EUR 2 billion, formed a national strategy, supported research infrastructures, strengthened human resources and created 12 000 new jobs. And these positive measures reversed the image that prevailed over time and gave a new perspective. And you will allow me to say that this reform work is also recorded in the consciousness of the academic and research community, but also in yesterday's article 'NATURE'. And I don't suppose anyone will question this magazine, perhaps the most prestigious scientific journal, which points out that SYRIZA may have lost the election, but assessments of reforms and research should remain. And this article will be tabled in the Minutes. And I come to the issue of asylum. You chose your first regulation to abolish it. It doesn't give us any impression. We all know the placement of the conservative faction against asylum, an allergy to the free movement of ideas, the political fermentation of youth, critical thinking and questioning. That is why you are creating impressions, while you know that in the academic community, the majority of twenty-four universities are quiet and only three and four institutions are observed. You say that you are guaranteeing the free movement of ideas and freedom of expression, when the provision you have tabled does not even provide for the institutional protection of academic asylum, it does not refer to as a condition as provided for in the existing institutional framework but also in your earlier law of 2007, the Giannakou Act, which is moving in the same spirit, and that is why I shall table a comparison of the provisions in the Minutes. It is worth serious discussion about the effectiveness of the law of Diamantopoulou, which had abolished the asylum between 2011 and 2017 and apparently emerged according to research by the University of Macedonia that at that time the infractionality was not only reduced but increased. So SYRIZA as a government re-established academic asylum and established - and you know it - a framework for dealing with the felony of its own right. Also, because we recognised the complexity of the problem, we also set up a special committee with broad participation, approaching the issue in terms of study, documentation and dialogue, but which has not been exploited any further. Your own approach and provision for the equivalent of the university space to the public space is extremely dangerous and threatens the foundations of academic peace. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me one or two minutes, Mr President. Madam Minister, safe universities are the living universities and the state must finance their effective care. At the same time, proper implementation of the existing legislative framework, which gives the Greek Police responsibilities and obligations, but with the main and decisive role of the Republican authorities. Instead, the preventive police rule, the doctrine of "law and order" turns us back many years and I think you should consider how the president of the Panhellenic Police Office, who, despite his general agreement with the abolition of asylum, referred to the difficulties the police will face in implementing the law and its refusal to settle permanently in universities. Dear Minister, with your order you overlook that asylum is inherent in the history of the Greek university, fermented with rights struggles already too many years before the dictatorship. You overlook that it is an academic institution and a symbol of democracy. It's not a historical fossil. It is a sanctuary of actions, which protects not only from state coercion but also from self-interests and their plundering, as hundreds of academic teachers have pointed out in a text of their signatures that I will present to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u345	Please, finish it, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u346	I shall conclude, Mr President. The Greek universities, the Provincial Councils, the educational staff, the workers and the students will not tolerate either unjustified and pointless patrols or the "black panthers". In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say this: While we have heard so many announcements about education, you are particularly silent about the enormous needs of permanent staff, when with Article 62 you are increasing the appropriations available for replacements and salaries. This means that you recognize the enormous needs of the public school.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u347	Please, my colleague, finish it. You've exceeded two minutes' extra time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u348	I shall conclude, Mr President. So you are silent about the need for such brave funding, while you receive increased budgets after ten years of cutbacks, but no reference has been made to the implementation of the 'one to one' rule, which is very critical of the public education system. Mr President, as a member of this organic system, I would like to say that, as far as our powers are concerned, we will reveal your plans, because we are part of this whole which for many years, with its efforts, keeps the public university very high in international rankings and in the consciousness of the Greek society, which you are trying to degrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u349	Mrs Anastasia Gara has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u350	Thank you, Mr President. With all due respect, I think that the way the debate is taking place today is not a debate, but simply a quote of monologues and not a quote of arguments in an interactive debate. The time always falling by Members is too little to have a substantial and productive debate on very critical and serious issues. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will not comment on the fact that we are discussing today a multi-legislative draft in the form of an urgent procedure, when two weeks before your programming declarations made you promised that there would be no bill with such a procedure, a bill which deals with fundamental concepts and principles of political and social importance, deeply rooted in the history of the country and the movements of this place. So you are rushing to abolish university asylum without discussing with the university community and the wider society. You are using the abolition of asylum on the one hand and on the other hand a deep political one, because your aims are not the allegedly abolition of crime within university spaces, but the attack on fundamental rights, the attack on the public university, the commercialisation of education. That is why you constantly call for a false, a distorted, nonexistent reality in the Greek universities, defaming public institutions. Why are you doing this? You're constantly invoking a lie. You told us, Minister, Mrs. Kerameus, that the life of students in universities is under threat and that the police have no right to intervene. Lies. You also said that town planning - a public service - cannot enter university space. Lies. You also said that it's an iniquity man the universities. Lies. What else can you say to justify your unconstitutional actions? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that university asylum as you have in mind does not exist. Yes, the sanctuary as conquered in the 1970s is no longer there. What today is the concept of protecting academic freedom, freedom of expression, research and teaching. Also, the fight against crime has absolutely nothing to do with asylum. You're mistaken. None at all. I'm saying it again. The issues of dealing with crime are regulated by Law 4485/2017 - known as the Gavroglou Law - where the intervention of public power is done automatically in malicious acts. There is no need for a dean's permission or a dean's convening, as the Minister once again repeats. In cases of minor invasion, the Republican authorities are responsible and several times the solution to these issues is also part of the educational process and the relationship between students and teachers. But in the logic that you set out, you are effectively abolishing the selflessness of universities. For example, by the provision you bring, if in the case of an experiment, a private company considers that it is discredited by the results of the investigation, the investigation is stopped or the findings of the investigation are silenced. The same can happen with expressions of a professor, expressed in the hall of a university. How exactly is academic freedom protected by that logic? With suffocation? By the doctrine of fear? With the police escort, will students and teachers express themselves freely? How exactly? I'd like you to explain it to us. So I repeat that infringibility has nothing to do with the concept and practice of asylum. There is already a sufficient legal framework to be observed and implemented, and there we have work to do. Your aim is, therefore, to defile the university's public and social character, precisely because you are dealing with education and research as a merchandise and not as a place of thinking, movement of ideas, the formation of social and political reasoning, the formation of active citizens in the end. Already the framework of your policies describes in the programme statements by private universities, deleted students, abolishing two-year programmes, evaluating on purchase terms, limiting access to the basis of ten, linking the sustainability and financing of universities in terms of commercial and non-scientific terms, attack on fundamental constitutional and human rights. If these, ladies and gentlemen, are not the right-wing ideals, if it is not the application in practice of ubanism, right-wing populism, what is it? Progress? So I invite you to visit the Greek universities and to know the real life and achievements of the Greek universities, because you are obviously ignorant of them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I urge you to respect the Greek universities and their people and to give all those guarantees for their support and development, for the strengthening of the self-employed and not the abolition and implementation of the existing legal framework. Because violence always gives rise to violence and you will have an absolute responsibility for it. I would also like to refer to the issues of local government and digital policy, but the time allowed for us is very little. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u351	Mr. Famelos Socrates is called to Step by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u352	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are not starting well. The bill we are debating today is in breach of yesterday's draft legislation, it has theme - broom, it has major anti-constitutional provisions, it has not passed a consultation and, indeed, it has significantly underestimated the procedures of society, since August has come to invoke the urgency for university asylum. Where to? No basis, no legitimacy. It is a pity that such a fresh mandate is escalating society and, indeed, undervaluing consultation and, indeed, a defeat, Minister, against the debate that can be opened at universities. Gentlemen of the government, what you are entering today questioning democratic functions and rights of the Greek state after the Transmigration, using and using tools of political deception and propaganda lies, hiding a hard anachronistic and neoliberal alteration of the changes that have taken place in Greece. You question the functioning of our democracy and you want to develop and implement an authoritarian and central state, as yesterday's bill said, effectively questioning the production of ideas and that is your objective. When you are talking, gentlemen, about self-government and asylum, you are targeting the production of ideas. You want to suffocate the production of ideas in Greece, because you do not want ideas to be developed that serve the European ideal and question your own power. Because what you are introducing today into the bill is absolutely contrary to the European ideal. The main themes of the bill are the abolition of mere analogous to self-government, European conquered, the abolition of communism, European conquered, the violation of asylum, the operation of Europe absolute, the dismantling of research by universities, European conquered, the removal of the Competition Committee, European conquered and a hydro-headed digital governance in view of the big brother. All of this has nothing to do with Europe that Europeans and Greek citizens want, but it highlights intolerance, allergy, I would say, which you have in the New Democracy for the essence of democracy. Unfortunately, there are very difficult times ahead for our society. We must prepare society and inform it of all these dark and undemocratic things that you want to implement. The position of Mr. Levanios in terms of unconstitutionality and Mr. Theodorakou was clear. The New Democracy threatens us with less democracy. It demonstrates its commitment to the mayoral model, because it does not accept the essence of self-government, which is the local government, the proximity to the citizen, as well as to the Charter of Government and the democratic planning created by the local economy, but also to the objectives of sustainable development of the United Nations. You have succeeded in a text that violates constitutional rules and also in violating the basic world texts of democracy and development. The aim of the New Democracy is to suffocate local communities and communism, which feeds thought and local function. What for? Because he wants to protect, insulate and prolong a sterile power that does not produce progress for society. The only thing that he produced in the past was inconvenience and bankruptcy and politics, but also economics for our country. But this suffocation at community level will also create a reduction in prosperity for local communities and we are very concerned about how local development will be provided. Because you are seeking to mutilate democracy and, indeed, everyday democratic functions, such as communism, strengthening a mayoral model and self-government professionalism - to say it clearly - you want to reproduce a political system with professional mayors, which will be your party leaders, which will renew your political staff, because you do not care about governance at all. The chairs of the mayors are of interest to you. You want to take care of them. Because this scene for years you have been serving in Greece and it is known that the conflict has been strengthened in the local society by a dominance-centre model and not by the simple analogue. Because this creates transactions under the table, with the transactions made, when the municipal ballots are made. Because the simple analogue, communism and the restriction of terms of reference are the democratic response. Do you have any guts? Simple analogue, communism, limitation of mayors' terms. Why don't you do it? Because you just want chairs. Chairs are the local complexion and reproduction of the local system. So fear this debate. What for? Because at the level of Mr Mitsotakis' chair you want to reproduce the same centralism and professionalism in politics, because you have filled this Chamber with professionals from politics, because that is the reality in the Ministerial Council. He accused us of our idea of simply analogous. Just proportional is ideology? But it's the European rule of Government, it's the essence of democracy. You will shortly be accusing us of the idea that it is regional development, decentralisation and possibly the rate of vote, because what you are doing today is that you are amending the rate of vote and, after the elections, you are coming back and the local communities are abolished and voting is equal. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because, Mr President, and I shall conclude, you are taking the seats out by taking responsibility from elected municipal councils before they even carry out their work - so that we have to judge at least - and at the same time you are violating the role and the reason for the existence of communities. You are abolishing the decision-making potential of the communities. It's not just the simple analogue on the municipal council. But after the election you also insult the voters, you also insult the candidates, you also insult the elected Members. And we're talking about about six thousand five hundred communities, and you're insulting them all, thirty thousand of them heretics, you're taking responsibility as candidates, reasons why people voted on them. And it's unconstitutional, but you also violate decentralisation. Because you imagine that we have ten thousand citizens' settlements, which are taking the responsibility of decisions from their councils. Ten thousand citizens, Mr. Minister, do they not have the opportunity to decide on their place? Who are you to judge this when ten thousand people voted for their local communities and remove it? And despite the fact that independent combinations have come here, and they suggested you to amend it, you did not, because you very simply want to limit the right of will, you want to tell the citizen: "I don't care what you vote, I change it afterwards. I've written them in my old shoes all, constitutional rules, democracy, polls. And I come back and take the opportunity of decisions by the communities." And, unfortunately, this is a distortion of popular sovereignty. And you're choosing it. That is why we have also made the request for unconstitutionality. And you will be judged if you do not change it until the end of the sitting, because you are taking responsibility from the nearest to the citizen, which is the core of democracy, is the essence of democracy. And be careful, you put in the possibility of alliances at the level of resignation but remove the possibility to vote as president of a community from another party. Two yards and two stations? What kind of hypocrisy is that? Who do you think you're gonna make fun of?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u353	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u354	Mr President, it is tragic that the Minister says that municipal councils are being upgraded and said so from the Step of the House, while at the same time taking responsibility for municipal councils. It is tragic to say that the mere analogue creates customer relationships when their system creates customer relations. And it's tragic to talk about economic development in the mayor's system, when it's implying that a person is going to dress with local interests rather than the municipal council. It is only the transparency of democracy that solves the issue of development. That's the only way the producers find a parity. Otherwise, there are limited interlocutory relationships and economics with local government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u355	Mr. Femmelle, you're talking more than two and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u356	And, of course, since Mr Theodorikos had no arguments, he threw the ball on the platform. He talked about the garbage. In other words, we have the Hatzidakis model that destroys for PPC and we also have the Theodorikos model that destroys for garbage.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u357	Mr. Femmelle, you've been talking more than three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u358	I conclude because it is important for public health, Mr President. So I say to you this: it is well known that the district manager has also submitted a programme of three and a half years adequacy, with a budget of EUR 150 million, which we gave to the Attica RDP fund, which had not been given by the previous government and with a priority design for recycling and sorting at source, because the previous plan was against European data.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u359	It's unfair to your colleagues!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u360	That is what you need to do. That's the program.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u361	Mr Colleague, please respect your colleagues. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u362	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u363	You're not finished! You've been talking so much longer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u364	If I think that your adequacy is hidden in the fact that you have been in charge of the office of Prime Minister in Thessaloniki with a grand asshole in all your commitments, Ms. Antonio, former MP Kastorias, having already cancelled with FEK since July 11, its responsibilities, I do not hope in anything from your Government. Such tragic mistakes are not even the first to come in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u365	Please, Mr. Comrade!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u366	You withdrew the Office of Prime Minister and announced yesterday that you were responsible for the office of Prime Minister. How low can this process of political representation be? Mr President, I think that even now there is the way and time to solve...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u367	Mr. Comrade, it's over! You've been to nine minutes. You can't speak twice as much time as you can. I'll turn off the microphone. I would ask Mrs Vultesis to come to Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u368	...to the benefit of our country. I ask you, Ministers, to strengthen the functioning of local government, to strengthen the function of simple analogy and within universities to defend the production of teaching, research and production of ideas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u369	Mr. Comrade, you're done! What you're doing is arbitrary. Please, Mrs. Vulge, come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u370	Because the measure you want to introduce restricts the production of ideas at universities. And you should think about it very well before you move on. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u371	However, if you think that with this arbitraryness you are also serving Parliament, but also Parliament's morality and Parliament's aesthetics, you are wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u372	It's a democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u373	Come on, Mrs. Vulture.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u374	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u375	Mr. Famelle, speaking for you nine and a half minutes and your colleagues speaking for five minutes is unprecedented.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u376	That's how it is...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u377	We'll be forced to close the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u378	Mr President, I prefer to defend democracy on the basis of...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u379	Come on! What democracy over the substance? Please! Are you going to monopolize the idea of democracy? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u380	Sure. You're her defenders.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u381	Is that what you mean by democracy? Please. You mean democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u382	As a person, I prefer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u383	Please, Mr. Femmelle.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u384	This has been established in Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u385	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u386	That's enough. Here, Mrs. Vuldesis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u387	Look, analogy is not what you have implemented, gentlemen of counterpopulation and Mr Famele. It's an erroneous system, because if you wanted to be proportionate, it would go proportionately. The first would be mayor and would have all the advisors out there, the second would be second, the third would be third, and there would be a number of consultants, so that he could get in touch with the next one. You take them to a barbecue majority in the second round, because you just want the mess. There's no other explanation. So one who has six counselors and is not the mayor who has twenty - six. So, how do we do it? That's just what you want to do. You are 'we do it and we see'. That's what you said to the committee, "Let it be applied and we see, let the assholes enter the universities and then we see, let them come and see how we get them, let the criminals go out and then we'll see what we'll do." Yeah, but politics is his art predicts. But you, for politics, only know revolutionary gymnastics. As there is no time, I will deal almost exclusively with the Competition Committee, because what is happening is incomprehensible and incomprehensible. It is clear that there must be no sign of political influence for this committee by the European Union. Do you remember who we're talking about right now? We are talking about Ms Thanos, who was appointed fourth in a series of antiquities on the day of June 29, 2015, while you left headlessly all the other supreme courts and were thus alone to become Prime Minister on August 27, 2015, after having argued with her earlier in a letter that unleashed abroad for the content of the outcome of the referendum. That's political, isn't it? Didn't he take a seat? He explained them and what the will of the Greek people was. Is this the job of the Supreme Court President? Do you remember that when he retired - you know - he was appointed directly head of the Prime Minister's legal office, was involved, gave interviews, got involved in the 'NOVARTIS' process? Truly the lips of the wicked, I see. Since the lawsuit about Samaras went to file yesterday, all those who found it all and said it was the biggest scandal, word! Mr. Tsipras went up in Step, word! Two years you have done no other job than talking about the so-called 'NOVARTIS' scandal. And Mrs Thanos had intervened - and this is the case for the Minutes she had intervened at the time - and the Union of Judges and Prosecutors had replied to it and said that it was institutionally unacceptable to intervene, because she had described the 'NOVARTIS' scandal as a major scandal and a range of persons involved. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Sophia Vultesis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mrs. Thanos had intervened in this. He had described several cases, i.e. had taken a political position on all of them, and was then appointed to the Competition Committee by the votes of SYRIZA and the Golden Dawn. Yesterday I asked Mrs Thanou: 'How many after the implementation of this provision will they leave the Competition Committee?' It says to me: 'As far as I know four, President, Vice-President and two rapporteurs are concerned.' That is, four within this so-called independent body were people who had served in the prime minister and ministerial offices, that is to say, in a committee that should not have any political influence, four people had been taken care of and settled there. One of these persons was involved in the case of television licences. Now will it go on to apply competition that is the main area in which television channels are being developed, a person in a critical position then? He made it clear to me that they're going to leave four. It's not just Mrs. Thanou. So you set up the Competition Committee. And I say this because now you have brought us after the NOVARTIS, for which you have not spoken again, a new point, that the Competition Committee was looking for the Marinakis ARGOS company. I am sorry, but these were solved by the previous committee, which imposed very heavy fines of EUR 150,000, EUR 450,000 on press distribution companies. After you put Mrs Thanou, then the Minister for Economic Affairs came in and wanted to relaunch the matter and put forward a new request, to rethink the Competition Committee, which suddenly began this case again in two days' time, on which he had adopted decisions and had already been adopted by 4 June. So there is no such matter. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I say all this to the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, which says that there must be proof of the committee's independence. I'm sorry, there's no need for any further proof that four people were serving at ministerial offices and involved in cases that they shouldn't have been involved in, to be in the Competition Committee. I give you here, Mr President - and I put this to you in the Minutes - by the Competition Committee all the case of 'ARGOS', which you say will be cleared up and made clear by Mr Kyritsakis's previous administration. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Sophia Vultesis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm just finishing up with one more thing. In recent years - and Mr Paulakis knows that very well - and because of the crisis, etc. Many of our doctors from the most experienced completed the sixty - seventh year of their age and had to retire. Everyone's gone, and they've become suffocated from the private sector. And our young doctors who come out of hospitals become compulsive from abroad. So a group of doctors went to the Ministry of Health's political leadership, and asked for two years for the sixty-seven years, because the "Savvas" and all our hospitals, etc., who have experience, have an extension, sit down one, two years until we see what we're going to do. The answer they received out of court was: "But we did not do it for Thanos who was going to stay one, two years more President of the Ice Bay. We cannot do this." In other words, Mrs Thanos also defeated cancer, because what the doctors of St. Savvas asked was to spend one, two years in order to stay there.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u388	My colleague, you've spent the year two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u389	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. He won the cancer and your sarcasm became, Mr. Polakis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u390	Mr President, this 'outside' does not apply. We can't fly here. Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u391	Don't tell you names now!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u392	Tell me! Because I answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u393	He's your friend!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u394	There is no 'outside'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u395	He's your friend!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u396	Mr. Athanasios Plearis, call Stepma. Then I will give the floor to the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr Villardos. Here you go, Mr. Plori, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u397	Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important in this House that we also have a debate on ideological issues. Because of the limited time and because I want to respect colleagues and speak most of them and I will try to keep him, I will come exclusively to Article 64, which is about academic freedom. Two levels of criticism have been set here. One level is ideological. What is the ideological level? I fully respect it, because I've grown up in a family environment, which has completely different perceptions in this part, and I have a lot of sensitivity, no matter how many people don't want to believe it. I understand that some people are sensitive to asylum. So let's go to the ideological part. Indeed, in 1981, at six, seven years after the fall of the dictatorship, it was logical to have a word that there should be room for increased protection. Because there was, if you want, even at that time an insecurity or suspicion against the state mechanism. Can we seriously say that in 2019, we believe that we cannot express ideas and perceptions and need spaces that need greater protection? Because I heard colleagues here at SYRISA: we went by Greek university and had a degree, a master's degree and a doctor's degree. And I imagine you all agree that while I have a doctorate in law school, I can't get into the law school, because at the moment, if I go to the law school, my physical integrity is at stake. So what comes in and says this article? So, in the ideological part we could discuss at another level, but in 2019 we would say that in the Hellenic Republic there is a need for increased protection for the expression of ideas, forgive me, it is an insult to all of us, because it means that we have not ensured such spaces throughout Greece. What's he saying? What change does it make in paragraph 3? The competent authorities shall exercise all their powers under the law, including the intervention, on the grounds of conduct of criminal offences. Where is academic freedom violated? He's clearly talking about criminal offences. I heard the honourable Member from SYRIZA, who said the Minister is lying, because the police are actually coming in for the felonies. Is that all the felonies? What happens in the case of a serious crime? I mean, I'm telling you that possession of explosives with the new Criminal Code is a crime. So if they are now calling the police and telling them: 'Inside the Polytechnic is three hundred molotovs and two explosive devices', do we think it is reasonable that the police should enter into consultation with the Republican authorities? And if the rector authorities either feared either from uncertainty or in any direction, do not give orders, won't the police get in? If at the moment, there are episodes and molotovs being thrown away and the police are chasing them, does the other guy seem reasonable to you when he hits the sidewalk and comes in and suddenly stop the rule of law and not be able to arrest for a crime? It is important, in criminal acts, to accept that we want what is applied throughout Greece, to apply to educational institutions, whatever is done in any public space, to the educational establishments, and then yes, we will defend the asylum of ideas. Because you know what happens now? I listened to Mr Polakis with great attention to the committee - I am not a member, but I saw him - who said that, in fact, in these areas, people have been blunted, ideas have been blurred and that is all. However, I will tell you that, within these areas, there have also been minority groups that dominated, in the name of university asylum, because the students have elections all this time and we know the results. But, accidentally, there were minorities, often not of the educational community, who managed, because of force and violence, to impose on students. In there, unfortunately, criminals also entered. I do not necessarily say that they were the criminals, but they also entered criminals. I am not only referring to the blockade, which is a framework, which cannot be intruded, but which has also been brutally penalised. And that's why you see that in university spaces nearby there's a crime involving drugs and anything. The ideological part, however, which SYRIZA has put on - and that is the reality - is that for the first time, it goes on to create within the universities a force so that these minorities cannot be imposed, that there is a rule of law as a whole on these people and that few, few, in the name that their opponents cannot enter, cannot be the one who does not like his word, because I know that at any time I will have the power to hit him, to do anything and cannot speak. And I challenge, Greek MPs, to go talk to the major schools that have a problem with asylum. We can't! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So this is something that 2020 needs to be overcome. And to be consistent with what I said at the beginning, I close my speech and really, there is no ideological issue anymore. There is a question of the application of legality throughout the Greek territory.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u398	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that Members of the Communist Party of Greece, pursuant to Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure, have tabled a roll-call vote on Rule 64 of the draft law. Therefore, all the rapporteurs and Members from now on can, when they are given the floor, deal with Rule 64. I will give the floor to Mr Villardo, the Greek Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u399	When will that be, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u400	You're right, Mr. Javarra. It will be decided by the President and in consultation with the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u401	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u402	Keep in mind, Mr. Villardo, that, because your Chief spoke, you'll have six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u403	I'll take the time of my tritology, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u404	No provision is made, but there will be a tolerance. Rule 110 does not provide for it, but at any rate there will be a tolerance. With the approval of this House we will go today by 01: 00, because there are too many speakers and tomorrow we will start at 9: 30' instead of 10: 00'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u405	Mr President, I have been asking you for the floor for thirty-forty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u406	Here you go, Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u407	We've been trying to get together since this morning. There's a hardship than it looks. Anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u408	What's the difficulty?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u409	I've been asking for the floor for a second and a half. I've raised my hand five times.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u410	The roll-call vote has now been tabled. The Bureau must announce it and tell you that the time to be discussed will be decided later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u411	In mid-August, and as you have chosen to proceed with the legislative work, there is no reason to fight. I would simply say to you that I made you about an hour and a half ago a proposal, so that the list of speakers can be established in a way that favours the exchange of arguments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u412	I've explained that to you. Twice I've told you and your colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u413	You chose to ignore the proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u414	That is the end of the matter. It was repeated on your day as well. There are no electronic cards. There's no other way. We're not miraclemakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u415	Do I have the floor, Mr President, or do I not have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u416	But when he's in Stepma, he's not allowed, son.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u417	I've explained. There is this arrhythmia. In ten days, the electronic cards will be ready. After the vacation, it won't be a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u418	Do I have the floor or do I have the floor? Can I wait for the speaker to finish?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u419	But you're saying the same thing. Here, Mr. Villarde, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u420	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the final state bill showed clearly that the New Democracy, assuming it was washed out by SYRIZA, as well as that the Greeks were convinced that there was no alternative to its party and the disastrous memoirs, was trying to take the opportunity. How? With the over-concentration of powers on the same one, which now decides and orders, as is seen by the storm of the bills, by the urgency procedure, without, of course, any reason, except for tax. Mostly, however, it conveys tens of powers to the Prime Minister, who is literally transformed into a elected monarch, with a Ministerial Council, which has endured with unprecedented privileges. Something similar also tries to promote local self-government in order to exploit the short-term election results of those who were elected by over-concentration of power among its own mayors. So instead of promoting a rule of law promotes a state in a state. This is extremely dangerous for Greece, especially because it has become a foreign debt colony, which means that this greater power is automatically transferred to foreigners, to those who constantly blackmail Greece, as recently with the national project of Attica's electrical interconnection with Crete. In this regard, they want us to be imposed by a consortium based in Cyprus, instead of the company "ARIADNI", which was set up by PPC's subsidiary, IPTO. This is a public undertaking, which is constantly devalued by Mr Hatzidakis' unacceptable statements, for which we have tabled a detailed question. If we do not, we are threatened by a loss of EUR 335 million of Community funds, knowing how important the project for the energy security of Crete is. In particular, with regard to the changes to local government agencies, a great effort is being made to counter-constitutional falsification of the will of the citizens. Its aim is for the mayors and the districts of the New Democracy to gain full and absolute authority by canceling, in substance, the simple analogue that we support as Greek Solution. This is an electoral process, in which municipal and regional councils were raised. At the same time, the New Democracy is propagandaing, claiming that the new institution failed, while it has not yet begun to apply. Unfortunately, he seems to think of citizens as immature. So while remaining faithful to its extreme neoliberal ideology and to its hereditary, family perception, it does not want them to be given the opportunity to be trained in the democratic procedures of mere analogy with which individual responsibilities are assumed by the citizens. We all know, however, that the regime that the New Democracy wants to bring back is exactly what went bankrupt all the agencies of local government and which removed from local government the competent citizens of local communities, since they always prevailed the view and principle of one man, the very one that the New Democracy maximised yesterday by voting on the final state bill. And we must not forget that this party overcompensated Greece in 2009, mainly firing public spending. Thus, with such anti-democratic methods, citizens' collective energy is not released, with the help of which our nation could literally achieve miracles. In addition, in Articles 19 to 41, we read about the establishment, in the Ministry of Digital Governance, of an oversized service with bodies and addresses that have nothing to do with the digital age, with the simplification of procedures, with the flexibility of administration and with the participation of the same citizen in the procedures of his or her everyday life and with the general policy. In particular, Article 27(4) on open governance, we see nowhere to establish an address, which will have the task of creating the conditions for the country's legalisation and governance, with the involvement of the citizens' will, through digital technology. We are talking about simplifying digital direct democracy. It is something that the Greek Solution has in its programme, which states that modern technology will be used to strengthen democracy with the direct participation of citizens in the electoral process and decision-making. It is a step that would put Greece at the forefront of global interest and in the forefront of the struggle for better democracy in modern multiplier societies, against the prevalence of extreme neoliberal globalisation. Regarding university asylum, its legislative status in Greece is a global originality because it does not meet in almost modern civilised state. In Greece, in particular, Article 16(1) of the Constitution fully guarantees the academic freedom and the free development of new ideas. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We are therefore in favour of university asylum, as provided for in the Constitution and regulated in the first two paragraphs of this draft law. In any case, we are against the asylum of lawlessness within the university institutions and against the violence against one another. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, is occupied by the President-in-Office of the Council.]] However, we must not just stay in what the New Democracy proposes. In other words, there must be stricter measures for crimes within the premises of the university institutions, where we have tabled an amendment to that effect. By continuing, Article 72 to reduce the annual interest rate of regulated debt to social security institutions is not clear and depends on whether there will be a reduction in the interest rate. In this respect, we believe that we should regulate only the payment of the principal, without increases, fines and interest. As far as the provisions of the Ministry of Justice are concerned, Articles 95 to 100 are concerned, it is important to institutionalise the speeding up of the adoption of judgments, since this is something which, to a large extent, prevents the functioning of our economy, which is what we should be primarily interested in. In closing, we do not need a final state and a final local government. What we need is a plan for the economy, one of ours. What we need is growth, since without growth we will not solve any Greek problems at all, but with domestic investments that have always exceeded 20% of our GDP, compared with less than 2% of foreigners in the last thirty years. I'm filing the comparative graph in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u421	Mr. Villardo, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u422	I shall conclude, Mr President. We are reminded here that, according to a recent study, the domestic companies that survived have reduced their costs by 11%, but their investments by 57%, while today 26% of Greek enterprises are living alive - in other words, with loans of 15 billion and debts of 10 billion. We do not, of course, need simply investments, but sustainable investments. In other words, they will not sacrifice the future of our children in the present and the altar of debt, as we believe in the Greek, but will be social and time-consuming fair, in relation to the income classes and all the generations of the Greeks. In order to achieve this, public investment must take the lead in order to create demand and to follow private investment. None of the countries in the world ever managed to escape such a trap without public investment. We must also stop selling public enterprises, as foreseen for PPC, in accordance with Mr Hatzidakis' statements. And we hope that the "ELELANDS" will not follow, according to the replacement of their successful leadership, one that failed previously, since it would be an even greater crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u423	Mr. Janakopoulos has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u424	Yes, Mr President, I would like to inform you that under Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure, fifteen SYRIZA Members sign the request for a roll-call vote on Articles 1 to 16 of the draft law, Articles 64 and 65 and Article 101 of the bill we are debating today.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u425	You should testify. As far as the question that has been asked is concerned, there is, first of all, no possibility of making changes. If you look at the list, it has reached a hundred and twenty-seven and so far it has actually spoken sixteen colleagues, so today we will go by one night. In consultation with the President, we will make an effort to make the roll-call vote - you have asked me, Mr Javarra - to take place shortly after 15.00 tomorrow. We'll make an effort. That means, however, that everyone should keep their time, because if we go beyond our time and get rid of the actual speakers, and they are, anyway, at the expense of the next. Mr Vassiliou - Nikolaos Ypsilantis, from the New Democracy, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u426	Thank you, Mr President. It is true that I did not expect that there will be five minutes in this Parliament, without also respecting the suggestions of keeping time by the Bureau and without respecting Members. I was a Member of Parliament in the period 2012-2015, when unfortunately such tactics were not seen by members of the democratic arch, but unfortunately, by Members of the format, who sat on top right there. I think, therefore, that when we are discussing democracy, respect for constitutional principles, etc., we should first observe the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, which governs the right work, democratic work and functions of the Greek Parliament. The Greek pathogen, ladies and gentlemen, which is devoting the state to our recommendation - the negativeity, the procrastination, the avoidance of facing realistic problems in the face and the appropriate answers - the opposition today serves with its positions, not only in discussing this bill, but also as the core of its policy, which has been showing it since the first days here, in the new Parliament. It is a pity, of course, that the very same attitude was shown as a government and this attitude the Greek people condemned by sending it to Anti-Population. It's good not to understand from your mistakes and go on with them. But what does this approach mean? The well-known tools. Invoking supposedly unconstitutional provisions, institutional decline - it has been heard here -, inventions of conduct in the legitimate demands of Greek justice and such things as that, on the one hand, demonstrate the availability of Anti-Population to put a brake on the rapid correction of situations that want to halt any attempt to modernise the state and the administration and, on the other, to create impressions of public opinion, the Greek citizens. What does the government answer? Quickly and with due democratic sensitivity and respect, in this regard, the bill, to local government, with which it is involved, responds with ensuring the smooth functioning of Otta I and 2 Grade, due to the people who created this ecstasy of SYRIZA, called "KLITHENIS". On the issues of the functioning of local and regional authorities and bodies, it is chosen by the democratic amendment of the law. Law, we learned at the Law School, replaces law. With the democratic amendment of the law, its change, initially with the encouragement of inter-democratic long-term cooperation, and in the event of not reaching agreement with the possible adoption of a minority proposal and, as a last resort, the decision by the committees provided for in the law. It should be noted that these changes relate to all problems, which exist in view of the establishment of the new municipal authorities, which must function, so that local government can move forward with its major decisions. I do not have time to speak - as I wanted - about university asylum. As a student's father, however, I would like to say here to the Greek Parliament that I am not proud of the universities and of this image, which many Greek universities and schools have today, nor of the outbreaks of the infrastability that exist there. I think that this provision protects asylum, but does not give asylum to lawlessness. Mr. Secretary of State for the Interior is not here. There is one provision, which has been specifically introduced for non-profit-making civil companies. I have spoken about this and the committee. It concerns a civil protection structure in Rhodes and in the Dodecanese countries, which has served for decades to tackle natural disasters with great success. Therefore, Article 5(16) of the bill allows these companies to continue operating. It has been done, Minister, a mistake on a date. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I would also ask you to replace a term of inappropriate law. Where it refers to ‘companies that are liquidated’, the liquidation is not withdrawn but resurrected. I would therefore ask that the word 'cleaning' be replaced by the word'revival', which is the legally correct term. Thank you, Mr President, for one minute's delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u427	Mr Kegeroglu has the floor now. Mr. Ceceroglu will be more tolerant, because he was one of the five who didn't speak yesterday, because he was suddenly interrupted. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u428	And six minutes to put, we're okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u429	Because I'm going to Crete next week, I want to have allies!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u430	Ladies and gentlemen, contrary to the conservative concept of the centralised state served by the New Democracy with consistency in the transformation, the PASOK put local government at the centre of politics as one of the three pillars of democracy, emanating it with its collective bodies and launching the transformation of the state. With the "CONTISTRIA" and the "COLICAT" the levels of government were redesigned with a radical redistribution of responsibilities from the central state towards self-government 1 and 2 Grade. The scenery changed radically. Of the fifty-fifth state rulers we moved to thirteen elected regions, with a dominant role in regional development. Of the six thousand non-personal communities, resources and responsibilities, we have spent a thousand and then three hundred powerful municipalities, which can serve the cities, the citizens and satisfy the social needs of the people they represent. At the same time, there was a great transfer of central power to the decentralised structures, but also to the independent authorities, which were established. The ADP, the National Broadcasting Council, the Competition Committee, the Citizens' Counselor, ADAP, RAE, the Telecommunications Committee are successful examples of reform despite disrespect from right and fair. In this cosmopolitan of progressive changes and reform, the one brought PASOK to create the modern Greek state, has always been across New Democracy, but not only. The traditional left with its various versions faithful, in the logic of the state of state, when she did not lag, was the island of the island. Even with the "KALIKRATI", which implemented the undeniable need to reconstitute the state in order to address the multi-faceted crisis with development and productive restructuring, but also with the preservation of social cohesion, SYRIZA, instead of ideas and proposals, submitted the maximum populism for spatial planning, overcoming the New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, after eight years of implementation of KALIKARATOS, we had to carry out a calm assessment and improve the institution where it proved to have suffered, in the prospect of its promotion for the next decade, of course, by making use of new technologies, of the new potential of the fourth industrial revolution. Instead, SYRIZA with "KLITHEN" has smuggled the possibilities of self-government to manage effectively the responsibilities it already had for local affairs and regional development. KLITHENIS gave the New Democracy the alibi he would seek beforehand to move forward with the 'CALIKARAT' reform. No order for New Democracy and Mitsotakis to have it! In the first phase, they set up a centralised system of administration within self-government by subtracting responsibilities from the collective bodies. In a second phase, we will have a reintroduction of powers and power of self-government in the central state. After all, in yesterday's bill, the government proceeds to reconcentrate power in the central state, which it in fact calls finally. And because Mr. Mitsotakis mentioned Sucho yesterday, I refer him to today's cartoons of "Kathimerini", "Makris" and "Petrolakis", which give an answer. The SYRIZA ball is not corrected by the monarchy of the New Democracy, Ministers. The SYRIZA MPs' attempt to oppose New Democracy in the areas that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has done worse, such as the expansion of the central state, only anger is causing two days now. In the same pattern and the intervention of Mr. Tsipras, who has not placed himself on the hard core of the New Democracy's policy, which is about the ultra-concentrating state, but has focused his criticism only on his staffing. This is the result of the concepts of New Democracy and SYRIZA, converging in the central state from other perspectives. They disagree, but only on who will be seated after the resumption of summer palaces. ‘Thanano’ means one, ‘Kyritsakis’, the other. Someone called from the mountains of SYRIZA the name "Toylupakis". "Not in Rubipai" one "Not in Kontoleon" the other. ‘Raquintzi’ means one, ‘Papaspyro’, the other. No, Mr. Mitsotakis and Mr. Tsipras. On 7 July the people did not vote for the change of one another. They voted for a change of policy, respect for democracy. They voted to restore the functioning of the institutions, the independent authorities and increase transparency by introducing additional new rules. The question of the Competition Committee was also raised in Mrs Thanano's selection procedure by SYRIZA - ANEL and the Golden Dawn. That is why we agree with Mrs Thanos' view of 2009, which said that the judges should not take up positions immediately after retiring against gross wages, and we propose with an amendment that we have tabled the enlargement of Article 101 by transparent procedures and incompatible with all the independent authorities. For university asylum what is required is the restoration of the true concept of university asylum, the protection of academic freedoms and the movement of ideas and opinions and the fight against lawlessness. I close, referring to the unique possibility, which could exist, in order to address some of the negative effects of 'CLOTHEN'. It is one possibility: clean programming cooperation on the table, with transparent and specific criteria, when they are achieved and not banned, which you are introducing. But, Ministers, you will proceed without proper consultation in the adoption of the provisions, and I predict that from 1 September you will bring two - three amendments per week to deal with the problems of the vicious circle in which you enter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u431	Mr. Syrmalene has the floor for five minutes, and immediately thereafter Mr. Dermenzopoulou from New Democracy. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u432	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law requires by the majority of the New Democracy a parliamentary coup to abolishing simple proportional representation in local government. Before you chant, there's no historical precedent. Before, even at least, the new and recently elected self-government bodies I and II, before even applying the new law for one day, will bring this law to the name of rulership. You were supposed to hear, supposedly, the part of society, which is protesting before even experiencing the supposed deadlocks and the inefficiency of local and regional councils. None of the society has heard you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. Your mayors and your districtlors heard, protesting where they don't have the majority. But what do you do with this bill? Remove the simple analogue, subtracting the real power from the municipal and regional councils, effectively canceling the dominant role and voice of each and every municipal and regional councillor, restoring the dominating central and regional government system. In addition, you are facing a major blow to the renewal of the political system and to civil society. The quintousity of the simple analogy lies not only in the authentic representation of the relations of the popular vote. Most of all, it lies in the fact that groups of citizens, particularly in municipalities, were able to claim their representation, even with one seat, groups of active citizens who act and operate in local communities, often with targeted thematic content and the main, regardless of political and party origin. Now what are you doing? In the name of cyberdynamicity, i.e. the absolute dominance of central and regional authorities, reinstate the absolute party control of local self-government, effectively pushing active society to the margins. Do you expect the upgrading of the political system, or to surround the political system and staff with greater authority and greater confidence than the citizens? Apparently not, because obviously, it's the last thing you care about. You are, however, moving on to a number of other amendments with the same logic as local self-government, the absolute sovereignty of the mayor and the district mayor, which amend both "CLITHEN" and the positive provisions of "COLICRATORI". In the case of agreements between factions, you have two inconceivables. The first incomprehensible is the association of the prototypes, without any programming basis. The second incomprehensible is the ban on the withdrawal of this partnership, that is to say, even if the same groups, who have accepted the partnership, find that they can no longer cooperate, so this cooperation must be resolved. A total counterfeiting, of course, of popular will and vote is also the control of the Economic Committee, the Committee on Quality of Life and the legal persons of the ATT. You are also abolishing - and this is also a crucial blow to the functioning of the communities - the decisive competence of the communities' presidents, in relation to the management of central independent resources to promote projects and actions at local level. This is indeed a huge regression, local communities cannot produce projects and actions, because they will not be able to decide on central self-resources. Finally, as far as the regions are concerned, you are abolishing the possibility of a country-owned counter-region to belong to another party, so this is a blow to cooperation, which, if any, cannot be revoked. The definition of the insular provinces of the islands can again arbitrarily be made by the district ruler outside the boundaries and islands of that province. I do not have time to deal with the issue of asylum and the question of the Competition Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u433	You really don't have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u434	But I will say in three words: the New Democracy Government has so far fully applied the three interrelated doctrines. Form One: Suffocating Prime Minister at all times. Order 2: Law and order by suppression. Constitution 3: Economic neoliberalism with first choices to involve representatives of large enterprises in the government and to strengthen large incomes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u435	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand very well that it is very stressful for the Bureau to ask you to speak about the bill in five minutes. One advice - if you want - is to focus on a topic so that you can develop it. Don't try and catch the hundred of those articles. As advice I give it to you. Mr Dermenzopoulou has the floor and Mr Amyras immediately thereafter. Here, Mr. Dermenjopole, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u436	Ladies and gentlemen, my first speech as a representative of the Greek Parliament happened to concern the legislation introduced by the Ministry of Education and, among them, an issue for which our Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, had committed himself, that he would be in the first legislative initiatives. He has personally employed me as a member of the Association Institutions of Law, as well as from the position of President of the Postgraduate Students and PhD candidates of the Law School of Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. In particular, in the context of the upgrading of the quality of the academic environment in Article 64, the Government of the New Democracy restores asylum in its true meaning, the free movement of ideas and academic freedom in research and teaching. I am sure there will be several facts, facts, examples and statistics in the debate, when the asylum was introduced, when and how many times this has been violated, how many incidents of unlawful action have been committed, who has the responsibility, where else this is happening in the world and so on. We've heard of them. We are all in favour and against. I do not want to be used in thousands of documents and arguments. For years, the specific issue of asylum has been a matter that one generation was passing on to the other. It's not the only one. This, however, has contributed as another link to forming a whole range of problems, which have poisoned our society. The mirror of our society is the university in the tolerance of insanity, in the plea that this is happening over time, a battle against the logic that has experienced its peak in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, the defence of the asylum of infraction in the year 2019 is done by people who prefer stagnation, who refuse or fail to understand, not only the world's awareness, but also our own potential as a state. The university, except for research and intellectual farming, is - yes! - a place where people can develop their personality, experience diversity, but also conscientiousness, cultivate mutual respect, tolerance and, as a basis, find corridors to progress and offer as a citizen. Instead, staying in a problematic situation captures all that that discourages each Greek and every Greek. In the last few days, then, we all experience the Greeks' optimism that something is changing, something is changing and that is how we must continue. The Greek university must re-enter the rails and continue its journey and must be attributed to them, who really belong to the students, the teachers and the administrative staff. The state in turn, by laying down rules and financial instruments, must and must be the guarantor of the uninterrupted functioning and freedom of scientific research and teaching, which is developing in the field of the university. And here I agree with the view of the President of Parliament, Mr Tasoula, in an articulation in 1980 in the 'Industrial Inspectorate'. A monitoring component of the concept of State is that the exercise of state power throughout the territory is indivisible and would therefore constitute a self-review of its mission, if it confessed to a discount - even exceptional - of its responsibilities and obligations from certain sites, such as IHS. For all these reasons, but also because it should never have ceased to be unthinkable that the area in which academic freedom is exercised should be the field of protection of infractionality, as well as the refuge for offenders, who are criminal offences within the IOIs, the proposed regulation is necessary and the space of IOI is assimilated to the common public space, of course, as regards the exercise of powers of authorities and their interference, due to the conduct of criminal offences. This regulation can therefore benefit all Greek society, but I personally want to devote it to all the children of the great party of the universities in the country, which we have fought for years, of the PPP - PPP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u437	Thank you, too. Mr Amyras has the floor from New Democracy and then Mr Vlachos from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u438	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago we celebrated the forty-five years ago from the restoration of the Hellenic Republic in a way and at a price that is appropriate to a modern Western state. All citizens have the opportunity to express their opinion freely, whatever it may be, to perpetuate their positions, on a single condition, to respect the law and the Constitution. We, in the celebration of democracy, declared our faith in democratic principles and expressed the belief that democracy is working within and outside Parliament. Unfortunately, there seems to be something different in the universities. The asylum of ideas, the asylum of scientific research, the evolution of teachers, students, administrative staff, has been transformed from small-scale to indestructible crime and infraction. In a few seconds we should have ended with the question of how we defend academic asylum. We should have agreed. See what happens, for example in foreign universities, where many SYRIZA MPs have studied and taught. Safety in every advanced Western society is the prerequisite for freedom. So too for academic asylum. With Article 64...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u439	Most murders...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u440	Do you disagree, Mr. Colleague, that security is a prerequisite for freedom?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u441	Most homicides...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u442	Are the molotovs satisfying you? We are not satisfied with molotovs in the universities. In a few seconds you'll talk, but you're so trapped...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u443	Let this dialogue not continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u444	But it's been interrupting me all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u445	No, all the time. Once.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u446	Two. Don't look, the first I gave it to him! We won't find America here. We should agree on the self-evident. Article 64 is an article that defends, foundations, betones university asylum. It's not abolishing. With Article 64, we want students, for example, from the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki to think only about their studies and not about getting a drug dealer around the corner. We want teachers to think only of how they will develop their teaching, not whether they are faced with barbarians, with vandals and with office building. We want the amphitheaters filled with knowledge and not with molotov materials. Ultimately, we want universities to have genuine asylum, genuine academic freedom, an asylum of ideas and not substances. All in all, the bill that the government brings is a bill, which finally brings logic to the fore. Should there be a lot of talk and we should disagree about the self-evident obligation on the state to distribute drugs at home to cancer patients? Do we need a lot of thought, a lot of analysis, to accept that municipalities and regions must be able to govern themselves? In the central political scene, non-forming government entails elections. There's a way out. In the municipalities and regions, this cannot happen. Does it take a lot of time to agree that the Greek public should be turned into a digital organization? The very successful General Secretariat of Information Systems of the Ministry of Finance is converted into a General Secretariat of Digital Governance for the benefit and interest of the citizen. I have heard nothing from the Opposition about the hundred and twenty instalments that we are introducing for the payments to the insurance funds. It is a second chance, and indeed, at 3% rate instead of 5%. Nor do we need to separate our bags again for the Ministry of Labour's obligation to issue pensions digitally instantly. In a year, then, from now on, with this draft law and all the arrangements that will follow, one in three pensions will be issued digitally and people will not have to wait three and four years. With this draft law, therefore, the government finally opens the windows of universities to get fresh air of academic freedom and not the smoke from molotovs. It's a bill that gives the lead in logic and progress. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I would therefore call on the Opposition to consider that as long as it is stuck in ideologies and in this party blindness, it only harms itself. And despite the fact that he thinks he will cause delays and pressure to our Government, you should know that the Greek society has taken its messages and trusts both Mr.Mitsotakis and the Government as a whole, so that we can move forward with reasonable and progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u447	Mr Vlachos from New Democracy will now speak, after Ms. Keftridos from the Change Movement, then Mr. Andrianos from New Democracy and then Mr. Klons Gregoriadis, Parliamentary Representative from Mera25. Mr. Vlao, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u448	Thank you very much, Mr President. The government is making arrangements for self-government, and one will wonder why this is happening. But it's simple. It is a request for the self-government factors, and indeed for the newly elected selfgovernment. Many have invested, as you know, in your regions in the election of the New Democracy, because we were committed to trying to round up - not, of course, to change - the problems created by the law of the previous government. The law of the previous government came in the name of democracy. More democracy in the municipalities. I do not know exactly where this democratic deficit had been identified in which municipalities. I, in my view, identified surpluses of responsibilities. And instead of dealing with the essentials, we have come and talked about almost direct democracy, that the two groups - commonly, find them more commonly, and even more commonly - can trade - so that the mayor, who is elected, can live up to his duties, because he is now the chosen local society. Here, you will allow me, the government may not even think wickedly, to let the law apply six months, one year, to these problems, which everyone has identified, to see what you are going to say. From excessive sensitivity, it today brings regulation in advance at the request of self-government and tries to give solutions to the problems before they are created. Because, in some special municipalities, the problems that will be created are huge and have already been recorded. Therefore, instead of today the Qualified Opposition also calls for the change for this government initiative, it would be right to lower the tone. It was a mistake, which the Minister responsible insisted on at the time. When you first announced it, you didn't know exactly what you wanted to do. We were asking you persistently how the municipalities would be run, you did not answer us at the end, on the eve of elections, and you brought this arrangement like you did. Lower the tons a little. Let the will of the municipal authorities be done, in the hope that they will work better, more efficiently, for the benefit of our fellow citizens in each municipality. I'm coming to second. There's been a lot of talk these days about asylum. Of course, because we have all been through universities and know what asylum meant, we are actually seeing how it has become. In particular, in some schools, you know that what applies is total illegality and constant unlawful action by some, who often have nothing to do with the academic community. We want to say these people have asylum. They have asylum, that is, all those who take their service out in the morning in Patisianias and at night, as soon as they surf, put it in the underground of the former ASAOE, the Economic University. They must have asylum! Is that what you want to tell us here today? Is that why you're still insisting? Because don't tell us that the free movement of ideas from the police and the rest of it is in danger. That's what's in the past. After more than forty years of democracy these have been secured and in any case, and wherever there is - because life is this - a case here we are looking at it. However, we are not talking about interference with the real free movement of ideas. No professor has been expelled so far for what he tells his students. On the contrary, we have seen teachers' offices being "built" and excluded from the inside of the buildings. That's the phenomena we've seen. All those people at the end of the day being strangers, no one knows them. Isn't that supposed to end? The self-employed of universities does not bother, we all support it, we all serve it. But we want order and legality in universities. No police state, no police rulership you're talking about. Soon the police had the luxury of running to get involved where they don't need to. However, when and wherever necessary, it must also apply to all public life. It's over and out. This simple, I think people understand it, adopt it, welcome it and we do it. I shall close, Mr President, with a report made yesterday by the Chief of Staff on the appointment of Mr Kyritsakis. I have to tell you, because at the time I was a State Secretary to the Ministry of Development, that the responsibility for defining the Competition Committee lies with the Minister concerned. However, political supervision has been or at least had it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Then I have to tell you about the restoration of the truth, Mr. Spyros Zesimopoulou - who was chairman of the Competition Committee and was appointed by the previous PASOK government - to him - he was asked in person - whether he would like to remain with a renewed term of office. Mr Zesimopoulou - we are talking about existing persons - has refused to renew his term, and then we have looked to find out who could cover this position, which you understand needs special qualifications. We ended up with Mr Kyritsakis, who was not chosen because he was a friend of a friend and the rest of you said, but because he was a well-known executive from justice. He had been retired, had time, had been given and accepted to serve the Competition Committee. I must tell you that during the period until the elections that New Democracy left, as many times as a meeting was held with Mr Kyritsakis, it was only for statistics, that is, how the Committee on Competition is progressing and never for the substance of the issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u449	Thank you, Mr. Vlavo.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u450	In this, neither did we ever ask for anything, nor was Mr Kyritsakis prepared to enter this debate. We didn't have a reason to get into the realm of cases. He was free to move his cases, seek the law, impose penalties and charge the result. That is the reality of those events. I don't want to expand any further, because I really don't have time. However, we do not try to give interpretations of events that have been made differently and which we do not want to interpret today in order to explain to a government initiative. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u451	Mrs. Kefalidou from the Change Movement, and then Mr. Andrianos from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u452	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the multi-annual plan which we are debating today has raised many issues, issues of self-government, administrative capacity of municipalities, independent authorities, retroactiveness of incompatibility. I am going to stay on the issues of education, as the competent parliamentarians from the Change Movement on this very serious issue. I begin by stressing, once again, that in the Change Movement we are clearly and clearly positive about the major issues of the security and well-functioning of the country's GNIs, not their abolition, as has been unsuccessful, but their protection. The disorganization caused by SYRIZA in training is not treated with fireworks. We need to take a serious look at the structure of our education with uniform draft laws, which will be adopted with the greatest possible consensus. In the field of education it is necessary to blow the wind of change immediately. This view is mainly linked to the need to open the gates of university institutions in research, to propose the renewal of curricula, to motivate excellence and discrimination, and finally to seek the necessary links to modern developments in technology and production within and outside borders. In this light, we are not at all sure that the transfer of GDR to the Ministry of Development is in the right direction. Research centres and universities cannot go on different roads. Both are intertwined with modernity and innovation. Researchers themselves clearly say it: Institutional separation of research centres and universities leads to a deterioration of basic research. And without basic research, applied research cannot be developed, so neither innovative applications nor new technology products can be developed. So, what boost to the economy can we talk about? As far as asylum is concerned, it is true that the question of the safety and proper functioning of the EITs is directly and forceful. It is understood by every citizen and everyone whose party identity has not become a blunder. It is a debate about his self-evident and questioning. It is a debate that is offered, as much as any other, to show wider consensus. Consents on our education, consensus on the public university and its quality. It is the demand of every Greek citizen that every child, who for twelve years has been preparing for his introduction to a university, who will offer him the knowledge but also the ways to seek it, want to learn, evolve, be able to stand with his own powers worthy and standing in a constantly changing environment. This is the work of universities. That is the university, which we all have to work for, and we all have to protect. The government's priority for regulating university asylum is indeed a good start. It shows a intention of restoring normal function, however. The legislative framework has existed since 2011. It was the political will that was missing. This protection has nothing to do with the tolerance of illegality, as it has nothing to do with the imposition of police sovereignty in the UAE. And no matter how convenient the political exploitation - which certainly does not need a new government with a fresh mandate - the creation of a flag, which we have baptised for asylum today and tomorrow, the truth is that it is not because of the chronic illnesses of education in the ineffective protection of university asylum. We must restore it to those who are really concerned about it: the university community, teachers and students. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Mr President, I will need half a minute and I will be doing very soon. But the fear of lawlessness is not defeated by fear of police rule. That's what we say, just and clearly. The ambiguous wording of paragraph 3 of Article 64 may seal the doors of the HEIs in any prospective violation, but may harm the very freedom it wants to protect. Just because in the field of education values are forged and consciences are formed - we must assume democratic - we must resolve issues rather than accumulate more. Ladies and gentlemen, the laws are not made sur mesure for a particular minister of a particular government. The laws must be impersonal and be able to accomplish their purpose, even when they are applied by those who are in charge. The question of asylum is already a burdened concept, which imposes clear and simple formalities. It is precisely because - as the Minister responsible said - the future passes through our schools and our universities, no one is entitled to interfere with a past that does not honor us, even by mistake. In order to truly establish the unobstructed movement of ideas of youth, innovation, the university needs its space free and secure by ex-university brigades and all kinds of offenders. The provisions on university asylum do not solve the problems of education. At best, they are a renewal of a promise that a new air of creativity will begin to cool off the anhydrous landscape of university education. At the worst, asylum will become another great flag that will hide our political shortcomings. Here we are to see how much consensus you stand!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u453	Mrs. Kefalidou, you need to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u454	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u455	Mr. Andrianos has the floor. Then Mr. Gregoriadis will speak. Like I told you, please, keep time. Otherwise, we are cutting off speakers. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u456	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the bill that we are debating today, the government proves in practice what it means. We show, therefore, that we fully honour citizens' confidence, their strong message that the country should finally leave behind the unbearable promises, which only added weights and problems to the backs of the Greeks. During the election period, we committed ourselves to specific interventions with a positive effect on the home, society, employment, income and daily life of households. One month after the elections, the Greeks see the consistency of words and actions, since many of our commitments are legislated. We are thus proving in practice another approach to policy, a result-oriented approach, the build-up of confidence with citizens, the consolidation of new regularity, the condition for every optimistic thinking about the future. It is therefore extremely important that the suffering for our seriously affected people is finally eliminated, at least as far as their access to the necessary medicines is concerned. Distribution at home, in the hospitals or in the neighborhood pharmacy is a self-evident arrangement, which has not happened all these years. Also extremely important is the introduction of the digital pension version, which will relieve beneficiaries of months or years of hardship and delay in the payment of pensions. It is an important breath to reduce to 3% of the interest rate for liabilities in insurance funds, together with a hundred and twenty instalments. On the one hand, this multi-legislative plan contains provisions which simply yield a positive tangible result to the daily life of the Greeks and, on the other, contains institutional arrangements that are important, such as for local government and lawlessness in universities. It is therefore clear that the asylum provision brought about by the previous government has not produced any positive results at all. First of all, he did not strengthen freedom of speech. Today, freedom of speech, free movement of ideas in universities is not threatened by the application of laws, as is the case in every public area, because democracy is taking us on solid bases. Secondly and equally important is the fact that university spaces have been transformed into centres of illicit trafficking in substances and smuggling products and are being used to cover even violence against students and teachers. The icons of shame at the University of Economics, the beating of teachers in Panteion and elsewhere, the attacks on students and students, the molotov-making workshops at the Polytechnic building in Patisia, the vandalisms of preserved university buildings and even expensive technology equipment, should have been finished years ago. So the government is right to do a request for almost all of the academic community and a large social majority, and to establish the rules and guarantees of legality for universities, which, moreover, apply to any other public area. The police will now be able to do their job without the ideological obstacles of the previous treaty, which proved to endanger the life and safety of members of the academic community and public property. Of course the Government's reform initiatives for public higher education in our country do not stop here, but guaranteeing the legality and security of all members of the university community is a precondition for further strengthening the educational and research work of our universities. Ladies and gentlemen, there are some political actions so mature, so self-evident in the consciousness of every unreserved citizen who needs a great deal of rhetoric, to oppose them. Objections to those who react to the incorporation of legality in universities are such an example of rhetorical exaggeration. It is, at the same time, an example of a policy to promote the decoupling of a political force from society's needs and requirements with the sole aim of serving micro-party interests. If, therefore, we really want to open up a new optimistic era for our country, the political forces in the country should first of all give persuasive answers to the demands of society. We must not show any bleakness in adopting self-evidently positive measures, such as the uncomfortable distribution of medicines to heavy patients. We must not hesitate to legislate overtime and self-evidently with almost universal acceptance by society, such as the incorporation of legality in universities. The Government of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis, therefore, proves in practice that he can fully respond to this great demand, both from the citizens and from the times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u457	Thank you, too. The Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 Mr. Claus Gregoriadis has the floor for 12 minutes. Here comes Mr. Gikas from New Democracy. Here you go, Mr. Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u458	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I begin what I have to say in relation to the bill we are discussing today, I take the opportunity to tell all of you and of course the Bureau that yesterday, not entirely legally, I think I was taken three minutes away from the time I had to speak. Mr. Buras didn't give it to me, the President-in-Office yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u459	I'll give it to you now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u460	No, I don't need them. I'm gonna need less than the 12 minutes I've got right now. It is simply useful to hear publicly that a good tactic was not followed yesterday because, yes, our President spoke the day before, so I did not deserve twelve minutes, but as you all know better than me - as you all know, I am young in this Chamber - I was entitled to six plus three minutes. Instead of taking the three, which I have asked for and denied, when I arrived at six and a half, in an unprecedented - from what I have seen in the Chamber at least so far - the President has interrupted me, I would say, in a very fighting manner, in a very rare fighting way. Let's hope it's a coincidence. Let everyone know that we won't let that happen again. Next time, we'll fight it with fingernails and teeth. I'm on my way. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard several times with my own ears - not in this Chamber because I have just been in this House, but from my home, from television - the former Chief of Officerial Representation and now Prime Minister, to resign, I would say, the current Chief of Officerial Representation, and until a month ago Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, for the good news - you have heard it, too - bills - barbers, for misguided provisions that followed these bills as retaliations, and I wonder what happens. Has there been any constitutional diversion that none of us got and Mr. Tsipras continues to bring the bills in the way he knows in this House for a vote? Obviously, I reassure you, the Constitution works to some extent, it has not happened. Something else has happened that is sadder. It has happened that the enormous inconsistencies between the election speeches and post-elections of the current Prime Minister, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, have been proved by the good morning. Let's get through now to the point. Local Government Organizations: The government, it is obvious, raises a question of subsidiarity in the municipalities. And how do you say he's trying to solve this issue of jurisdiction in the municipalities? By laying down provisions which could easily be described as completely unconstitutional, such as Articles and paragraphs of the law, concerning irrevocable partnerships of municipality and the Committee on Economic and Quality of Life. The New Democracy and your Prime Minister, it is clear, in the dilemma of democracy or rule of law, that they choose rulership. But whoever governs, without absolute and pure democracy, but within a democratic is supposed to be a democracy, is, I think, self-evident that it is moving to the limits of constitutional legitimacy or even outside this constitutional legitimacy. Article 2, and in particular paragraph 4 of this bill, provides that in the event that the party of the mayor elected in the second round has not elected the minimum number of members required to have a majority in these two very important committees, then the number of members elected will be increased entirely arbitrarily until the number laid down by the law. So, what's he doing? He normally removes, in this way I want, seats elected by the citizens of the other groups and adds them, as I like, to them, and in a manifestly unconstitutional manner to the party elected during the second round of mayor. In other words, this bill gives full coup d'état the control of the Committees of Economic and Quality of Life - which, I repeat, are perhaps the two most important committees in the municipalities - to the mayor elected by the second round. By providing the simple analogues, the New Democracy obviously intends to establish an extremely dangerous and obviously undemocratic framework in the municipalities, where it is intended - and I warn you, ladies and gentlemen - that in the future we will be watching scenes of infinitely good people with mayors and municipal councils, which will have arisen, not from the vote of their citizens, but from arbitrary seating. Is the Prime Minister afraid of simply proportional? Does he think that a mere analogy can finally not work, can it not work? Funny, because - you know - it has been working wonderfully for a few decades in various European countries, such as Spain, which make their municipal elections - up to a few years ago, a few decades ago - and their parliamentary elections - and Italy - with simple and unadulterated analogy. Here, of course, we should also note the assistance provided by SYRIZA to the New Democracy so that it can attempt such constitutional aberrations, as the half-analog brought to the municipal elections by the Skourlets did not completely cut as it should, if it really wanted to be simple analogue, in the second round, so that the mayors were elected by the vote of the elected municipal councillors of all the resignations. In this case, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy would not have the slightest opportunity for anti-constitutional toys, at least in the municipalities of the country. You'll have to think about it second time. Let's get to university asylum now. Let us start with a assumption - I think you will all agree, on the left, on the right and on the centre - that universities are primarily areas of free and democratic movement of ideas, areas where research and knowledge give the opportunity to our citizens and future scientists, not just to get an accreditation of excellence, but to be fermented with new ideas, to develop their thoughts and criticism, to become political beings with an opinion. The record that in the university institutions of our country there is lawlessness and that is why de facto the asylum must be abolished - and indeed, with deafening noise in my opinion - as the current legislative framework - I am not a legal body, but you do not need to be able to understand it - allows for the immediate treatment of illegal acts within the area of university institutions. It also clearly contradicts this account because there is, ladies and gentlemen, lawlessness in the universities, as you only say because of asylum, or there is unintentional lawlessness in other areas of the city, which are not protected by any asylum, such as Exarchia, where the lawlessness there lives and reigns. Since, in Exarcheia, where there is no asylum, the police are still unable to intervene effectively, because once in the universities the asylum is abolished, the police will be able to intervene effectively? Let's get something straight, so there's no misunderstandings about Exarches. For Mera25, apart from the demonization of the Exarchates, which differ in nothing from many other areas of the city and which the government systematically targetes them, as it considers it to be conceived of all its inhabitants, class and political opponents, in addition to the preconception of the government towards the Exarches, the Greek police could have intervened for decades throughout the territory where, as well as whenever necessary. Its ineffectiveness, we believe, is due to its structural shortcomings, to its incomplete education and, above all, to the inadequacy of re-entered people - and Mr Samaras reminded us - had carried out them - at the moment only to create impressions, recruitments of people who are intended to create impressions in order to find themselves on the streets before they even receive the training necessary for this. Is the Prime Minister afraid of free movement of ideas or does the reaction of student youth and social and political concerns not fit into his plans for full privatisation of education? It is now clear that the slogan is obviously also true here: 'In the banks money and immunity, in the youth spheres and in unemployment'. You can understand, of course, that this motto has been written in a room or in a university yard where you think such an action is simply grinding the walls. Indeed, it's true, it's rubbing the walls. This is not very nice, I assure you, nor for us, at least for those of us who have spent the fourth decade of our lives. Is that, as you claim, more important than the fact that our young people have almost all been sacrificed for ten years on the altar of unemployment, and of course, much more rare, though, as in the case of Alexander Gregopoulou, who has not even been able to live on the altar of asymmetric police rule? The abolition of asylum, dear Mrs Kerameus - you will remember me at some point - will achieve exactly the opposite of its objectives. Once the first platoon of MATs, Minister, enters an amphitheatre and once it uses chemicals and smokers there - which is all she knows to do, it is not wrong for her to do so, but it does not know how to do anything else: tobacco and chemicals - then panic, terror and tension will immediately create the conditions for us to live perhaps our next national drama. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, Mera25, today from this Step forward, warns you: If you do not want to add another guilty secret - and the secret here is that the asylum is not abolished for any alleged lawlessness, but to allow the police rule that follows its abolition to address the student's reactions to your future pre-determined attempt to privatise our universities - perhaps the most dangerous of all in the series of your guilty secrets, you can even now withdraw from the bill the disputed provision for the abolition of asylum. Thank you very much for listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u461	Mr President, I would like to put forward some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u462	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u463	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to put forward a number of legislative improvements in the Minutes, which, in the vast majority, concern provisions of the Ministry of Digital Governance. I am tabling them in the Minutes in order to be distributed to all parties so that we do not waste time now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u464	Mr. Gikas has the floor now, then Mr. Katsis and then Mr. Varoufakis. Here, Mr. Gika, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u465	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot comment on Mr Tsipras's accusation yesterday. He accused us of hypocrisy and populism. I would like to remind the House that the first bill brought by the SYRIZA Government, which was passed, if I am not mistaken, about a month and a half after the elections, was a bill with the false title: 'Measures on the humanitarian crisis', which gave some 200 million people, which they really needed. However, most of the provisions were provisions that substantially changed the functioning of the State on many issues. One of these provisions - I would remind the House - was the abolition of the national coordinator for anti-corruption, which was, at the time, the former prosecutor of the Ice Bay, Mr Tendes, who was appointed by the former government of Samaras - Venizelos. Four and a half years later, you blame us for hypocrisy and populism. Obviously, the Prime Minister was referring to the issue of Mrs Thanos. I have nothing to say. I respect everyone's path. In the same debate the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Mardas, said that the government's efforts would then be to reduce post-mortem employees by 50%. In fact, I have it in front of me, he explained that the current regime provides for a thousand hundred and seventy-three posters, while the number promoted would fall to five hundred and fifty-four. Instead, you're two thousand five hundred. And you blame us for hypocrisy and populism. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Stefanos Gikas, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, as time runs, I believe that this multi-brand plan is an essential piece of legislation, which improves important aspects of the country's governance and, of course, the part of local government and the part of digital governance. It also regulates very important issues of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health and Labour. I'll stand on two issues. Of course, with Law 4555/2018, the simple analogue was introduced to the municipalities and regions. We have seen that in this way a municipality and a district cannot be governed. In two hundred and thirty-one municipalities right now, elected mayors do not have the majority of municipal councillors. And one, of course, small number of regions. So that there can also be governance in the part of local government, these provisions are introduced, which substantially improve the process, so that the municipalities can be governed properly. Because if a municipality or region is not properly governed, it will have an impact on the lives of the citizens. So these provisions are right to be introduced. We will see in practice how it will be implemented. I am absolutely sure that the municipalities and regions will be given the opportunity to govern properly. The other point I wish to raise, and all my colleagues have mentioned it, is asylum. Friends and friends, and I have two daughters of students. If you ask our children, if we ask their parents, if we ask society, they will tell us that, as the asylum has made it understood, it is essentially an asylum of infringibility, illegality, an asylum that collectively moves to the limits of illegality, they find refuge. And basically, instead of free movement of teaching, spirit, ideas, we have become the exact opposite. I think we will all agree that the shame images that we have seen in the universities in previous years should be extinguished. And that is a way to achieve this. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Significant provisions are also introduced to help. I am referring to Article 16 for the Civil Registry. Introduces AMKA to the Civil Register. AMKA is very important for the interoperability and interconnection of state structures. It is the first step so that after a period of time the Ministry of Labour proceeds with digitisation, which will result in digitalisation - as they are called - pensions by pressing a button. Finally, I really want to say - because we, or most of us, have experiences from this disease in our family members - that what is done with this provision, which cancer patients at last, who have been hardened by multiple sclerosis, will not be placed in the tails of the pharmacy of the EEA to receive their medicines, is something that should have been done for many years. Fortunately it has now been made by the Government of Mr.Mitsotakis. Of course, and we are voting on this multi-brand plan, which will improve the lives of both local and regional authorities, as well as the lives of Greek citizens in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u466	Thank you, Mr. Gika. Mr. Katsis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u467	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing another preparatory bill of the new government, so that it can exercise power, in my opinion, at best, by trying to regress a great deal. And the only argument we all hear from the lips of all of you, the majority and the government, is victory in the elections of 7 July. You've learned it well about non paper. I would simply remind you that in the elections of 7 July a very high percentage of SYRIZA was given almost 32%, which means that we will be here to control you and criticise you. So you accept the new situation, and you too, because it seems to us very well that you have been pressing for the first few days. Now we're going to the bill. You come by law for the municipalities and regions to falsify the popular mandate in the self-government elections, because that is what this is about. While local societies have made their choices within the analogue democratic framework of "KLITHENI", you come by legislative regulation and retrospectively restore the dominance-centric model even more strengthened than before. In fact, it becomes the municipal council decorative and all decisions are taken by committees and by the mayor. In fact, you do, within just two months after the elections, without even having been tested in practice 'CLISTHENIS'. That is the democratic concept, which you have for the vote of the citizens and for self-government in general. The second issue. You are entrepreneuring, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, in favour of the abolition of academic asylum, apparently over time, our universities as places of lawlessness, infraction, thus slandering the entire academic community. You know, of course, that the institutional framework necessary for dealing with felony acts exists. Your obsession with asylum serves, in my opinion, strange purposes. On the one hand, it is a right-wing idea that has been reversed by progressively acquired and, on the other, serves as a measure of preventive repression. The secret anti-grass agenda you're planning to implement, you know that he'll meet resistance to the social field and you're already preparing the field of extreme repression. You want the most powerful part and the most creative part of youth to be sterile through the police rule of a place where ideas are moving freely. All conservative forces were afraid and that is what you continued to fear. Such policies, as we have seen in the debate on the institutions, are also an example of the abolition of the Patras Law School. What's the benefit? Apparently, the foreigner's private interests. I hope you will quickly understand your mistake and stop here, Minister. Newly established departments, such as the translation and interpretation in Igoumenitsa, established by law and with new members' seats at the University of Ioannina, are acquired by the academic community and are requests from local communities. We demand that you respect them and guarantee the operation of newly established departments, although messages are extremely worrying. At this point I'm going through digital politics. Observation one. We have the establishment of what we fear can become the second pillar of Mr Mitsotakis' staffing state, namely the digital state. This is discussed in this draft law, and I raise two questions and one question. You are telling us that you are now concentrating in a sub-ministry of information systems, administrative units - General Secretariat of Information Systems, Information Society, etc. - and competences from other ministries to speed up and simplify the procedures for digital reform by implementing digital projects. This unification - I want to be clear - on conditionality could work positively so that there is no fragmentation and a lack of interoperability. We hope from the heart that the Ministry's new leadership will succeed. But we are suspicious, as the new government's writing samples in other areas are not positive. There is a clear effort to overconcentrate powers in the Prime Minister's Office, in a bottom-up structure of power closed and fully controlled by trustees. Do we have a similar effort here, too? Because, yes, they all gather at the Ministry of Digital Policy, but they all start and end up with the Minister. The Minister shall decide the administrations of the structures, the staff he serves, the responsibilities and the operation. Is over-concentration aimed at circumventing responsibilities, controlling the structures, so that all the digital works to be done are done only as the Minister wants, with the standards laid down by the market and whoever reacts to override the fast track, and indeed with the prime minister's coverage? Here we are to see if you do have the aim of digital transformation, where you will find us a mermaid or if this ambitious plan will result in a closed peak structure, where it will close fast track deals, without the possibility of checking whether the conditions of the public interest are complied with. This is where we'll be in control. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance for a moment. Observation 2. The Greek Space Agency, ELDO, when it was founded on our day, so that for the first time we can develop a national strategy in space, while making use of scientific staff and the domestic industry, you were the party of our alleged entrepreneurship. In fact, Mr. Dendias, as rapporteur in that bill, had told us that he would abolish it as useless. So today, you're making an impressive cubicity. You rename him and keep his purpose, which is exactly the same as the Greek Space Center word for word. And I ask Mr Nine from the Stepping of the House to answer what it will be voting on today when the ELDEO is not abolished, but is renamed. To sum up, you are making a communication management of the subject. You are leaking the press that Poppa's ELDE is removed and so on, and in practice you fully recognise the need for a national strategy in the field of space, fully applauding our own choice. And we want a documented response to change the legal person from S.H.I.E. the State to a legal person of a non-profit-making nature. What feasibility does it serve, we have not yet understood. Third point and I'm closing. We have heard Mr Zarifopoulou tell us that compromised projects will proceed and that the basis of the digital book is the national digital strategy, which the SYRIZA government first drew up. We expect you to tell us how to enrich it, who you will consult with, who will ultimately decide, who will do what and what time. Every time, however, you refer to the DESI indicator, I will give you two letters. The first letter is from the then competent Commissioner, Johan Han, on November 20, 2013, where a list of recipients and recipients is Mr Chrysochoidis as Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, former Prime Minister Samaras, current Prime Minister Mitsotakis and Mr Hatzidakis. And what did he say then? It puts you heresy for the achievements of your then digital governance and freezes European funds of EUR 1.2 billion, because you had not advanced digital convergence. And a second letter. Because we are useless and Mandurists as government, another letter comes from the Commission on 23-3-2017, which removes the heresy of these funds, because all the conditions mentioned in the first letter of 2013 have gone ahead in order to achieve digital convergence. So I put it in the Minutes of the House, so that you too know before you refer to the DESI indicators next time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u468	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u469	So we'll be here to criticize you...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u470	Mr. Katsy, you speak seven and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u471	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u472	It's over, but you're not finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u473	...without zeros, as our role requires, and without behaviour, like Mr. Georgiades "see you in four years", returning as unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u474	The President of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group, Mr Varoufakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u475	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, friends of the Couple, let us agree that the first steps to write a government mark the values, as must be done. The first tax bill you brought, of course, could not have any substance, since like the previous government, you have joined the doctrine of "yes to everything, to lenders", which cancels any substantial tax exemption, does nothing about the debt-government, does nothing about the 100% tax advance. This is the price of the break with your voters, so that there is no break with your lenders or our lenders. What is interesting, however, is that the next two bills gave you the opportunity to mark your real principles, as far as institutions, state, administration or education are concerned. And what did you signal? It is interesting to take a look at what the honourable Member said yesterday at the closure of the procedure for voting yesterday's bill. There's a thread, which connects the bill yesterday to the today, where it's worth a look. He said Mr. Gerapetti, cheating on the accusations of neoliberalism of the government, that a neoliberal state means a shrinking state. In theory, perhaps, in practice in no way. I first taught neoliberalism by Mrs Thatcher in the name of state shrinking, when she began to apply state-stage policies, realised in the process that, in order to overcome the major social reactions she was facing, she had to overcome powers in the central state, the central government, she had to create, build an authoritarian über - state in the name of state-structuring. That was Mrs. Thatcher's personal tragedy. She figured it out at the end of her life. It is interesting to see where the construction of this über - state railway began, which was aimed at shrinking the state, but which eventually brought the state to increase. It started with local government. That is where Mrs Thatcher faced the greatest social resistance. And what did he do? With a view to overcoming these social resistances, hundreds of bills and regulations, decrees which led to the abolition of the autonomy of local government throughout Britain, particularly in England - later and in Scotland - the over-concentration of power in the hands of mayors controlled by Mrs Thatcher and the abolition of municipalities which Mrs Thatcher did not control. It is no accident to me, regardless of whether you do it consciously or unconsciously, that you are starting your great reform effort in favour of a small neoliberal state, supposedly, by local government. Of course, you have a very big difference with Mrs. Thatcher. Mrs Thatcher was a serious neoliberal, and she also made her savings in the British government's cash. He would never sell the OPAP or the "NATURAL AIR" at the degrading prices that you accepted. He would never say 'yes to everything' to the incoherent, inconsistent, pseudo-techniques of Brussels. But let's leave that. The problem we have in reading this bill, especially with regard to local government, is that it is very difficult for us, even when we understand your motives, to monitor a thinking so alienated from logic. Assuming we accept the practicability. We don't accept them. We disagree vertically, but we understand that there is a deep disdain for democracy that starts, if you like, and from antiquity with Plato. In your case, I think we should go closer to Mr Symble, who in the first Eurogroup, to which I was present, is glad to say that the elections are not allowed to question the memos. So I turned to him and reminded him that this will be something with which the Communist Party of China will be very happy, because they too believe that the elections should not change economic policies. Assuming that in this context of abstention to the real, genuine democracy we accept the thought that you have, even coup d'état, in order to govern the municipalities to take seats, positions on these very important committees, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, and to give them from the majority to the minority until the mayor on the second Sunday, which is voting on the municipal council, has an absolute majority of these important committees. What the mind fails, however, to conceive, even if we agreed with you, which is unlikely to forgive, is this terrible concept of the irreversible partnership of municipal lawsuits. How did you think about her? What can we expect from your government? What's the next step? A constitutional review that abolishes the statement in Parliament, allowing a prime minister to remain a four-year prime minister by a majority, even when he loses Parliament's confidence? Is that where we're going? Because that is the logical consequence of the monstrous idea of irreversible partnership. What's got to be done? Let us now talk about the pact. Ladies and gentlemen, the Skourlets Act on how the municipal elections are conducted demonstrates that the same thing as the semi-democraticism is dangerous. Let us give you the example that the parliamentary representative has mentioned what we believe should be done. We as a PART25 are committed to a mere analogue. And we are upset because we do not believe that either a state or a municipality can really be governed when a majority of citizens have shown their distrust with the mayor or the Prime Minister, voting for other parties that disagree with the policies of this mayor or Prime Minister in question. We believe that democracy and proportionality go hand in hand. Practical? The account that mere analogues irreversibility, at least in the field of local government, collapses when we look at specific examples. I'll give you one, the city of Barcelona. Barcelona Mayor Anta Colau is a co-worker and member of Mera25, our partner and heads a municipal authority that is a diamond. We are talking about financially sound municipality, about economic efficiency. We are talking about an overcrowded municipality, with social sensitivity, with a pan-European and global dimension on human rights issues. Fifteen thousand homes built by this city for immigrants. That the governments of the European Union did not allow Lesvos to transfer from Lesvos to Barcelona is a reproach for the European Union. How was Mrs Colau elected? He was elected by the City Council on the basis of proportionality. We are therefore proposing something very specific. We have this law that we have, well or badly. It's the election contract between the local and municipal authorities. It is not understood by a democrat, a retrospective change in this electoral contract between citizens and municipal authorities. It must remain like this, at least until the next elections. We believe that from the next municipal elections and regional elections the mayor should be elected by the municipal council on the basis of proportionality. This is the proposal and the position of Mera25. I shall refer very briefly to the list of new offices and agencies that you are renamed, created, set up. It cannot be criticized for such a list without reason, without substance. I have noticed somewhere that you are proposing the General Secretariat of Digital Governance and Simplification of Procedures to break it into a Communications Office and a Directorate-General for Digital Governance and Simplification of Procedures. I imagine you will also have a sub-committee with clearly defined objectives, simplifying the simplification of this simplification. Look, if you want to remind Parliament of these proposals by George Orwell and a little Monty Python are your right. We do not follow you and all these provisions will be voted against. And now you will allow me, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to come to the big asylum issue. Because, as the feminists have taught us, the staff is political, you will allow me a personal story. December 2009 at the School of Law, Sina Street, 5th floor, at the amphitheatre, I delivered the course of Political Economy one afternoon, cold afternoon, dark afternoon, difficult afternoon to my first-year students. Somewhere underneath the building, through the stairwell, this aid began to come, the noise of discontent and agony. We've been hearing heavy footprints, swearing, threats. We knew we were on the verge of invading extra-university occupations. As long as this noise was up, I stopped the lecture and told students, eighteen-year-old children, nineteen-year-olds, fresh from school and some older students, so-called 'eternal students' - you know, Minister, that when they return to university, when they can find time and money to come, they are our best students by the way and I close parenthesis - that we have a simple choice. Exit or stay in the room to defend the asylum by continuing our lesson. Nobody's gone. In honor of them, everyone stayed there. I didn't even have to inspire them. They were more enticing to me. After five, ten minutes that we continued stubbornly in class, I feel that their eyes are magnetized by the door glass behind me in the amphitheater. The hoodmen had come in the variation suits, broke, resurrected tables. They went into the room sometime. We continued the lesson. And we continued it against this invasion. That evening I wrote an article, which was published in “KATHMERINI”. Let me read a small quote: "If I were the main representative of the establishment, which is intended to effectively abolish the public university, reduce it, turn it into a latent unemployment warehouse, if it were my goal to make the resistances of society to the idea of private universities, if I decided to punish students who did not have the money to study abroad or where they did, preferred the Greek university, if that were true, could I make a stumbling of anything more effective than what happened today in the amphitheater?" I conclude by writing: 'Agency requires care, safeguards, because otherwise it turns into immunity for those who are against university asylum.' I want to ask you a question, Minister. If that day, last month or a month ago, then the government, in 2009, had abolished the asylum, what would it have changed? Absolutely nothing! Ladies and gentlemen, if we do not have an asylum service, a body of university security, a university police force, the training of uniforms, the means and means of safeguarding the university's property, academic freedom, the right to express all opinions, we are not going to change anything, as our parliamentary representative has said. The state's first concern should have been to create this university protection and protection of asylum. The fact that it has not been done, that you, colleagues, of the SYRIZA, have not done so for four years, is a great problem. As you reformed the TEIs, as Thatcher initially did, at universities with no resources and - listen to me, listen! - secondment of secondary school teachers to TEIs, so you did bad for both schools and TEIs and university education. If, instead of that, you had established the university asylum guard, today the New Democracy would have much less chance of abolishing university asylum. I would like to close my speech with something that is very important to me. The deepest meaning of university asylum, freedom of speech, ladies and gentlemen, is not only guaranteed when violence and repression are prevented, when someone allows me to come out of my mouth without being afraid. It's very important, but it's not good enough. It's a sufficient treaty, it's not necessary. In addition to the security of university participants, in addition to ensuring that we are not victims of either para-state or state violence in universities, in addition to the lack of physical limitations, the university community, in order to develop freedom of speech, requires supplies and time. It takes the student, the student, the professor, the teacher of the resources necessary to overcome, overcome, herself, the self-criminality. The greatest enemy of freedom of speech and thought are the social conventions of a patriarchal and conservative society that want the university, the student, one as a reproducible of prejudice. Asylum is not just asylum by police, MATs, hoodmen. There's that, too. It is basically the creation of conditions of an ecosystem in which difficult, dangerous knowledge emerges, a ecosystem that will be completely entrenched and protected by the sirens, both state and state, as well as markets and multinationals. It is a public university with safety and resources, so that participants in the university process can think well and, above all, dangerously, because this risk of good thinking gives rise to useful new knowledge. It is interesting, therefore, for Mera25, that a party which has done its fullest for private universities begins with the abolition of asylum. Ladies and gentlemen, Harvard in Greece is not going to make any private. Harvard is only made in the United States, where the Robber Barons have a specific process. Here even the few Greek oligars, who may have some money, can assure you that they will not invest them in a Greek private university. Harvard will give it to create a seat in their name. Here, the only thing you're talking about with private universities is the recognition of the diplomas of existing colleges, of the same colleges that take our own children with very good studies, doctorates from America, from Greece, children who have reason to be in Greece, want to be in Greece, have their parents here, who put them and teach twenty and thirty hours a week. Do you know what that means? The end of their academic career. They're burning these kids. Anyone who teaches twenty and thirty hours a week will never write any article of which will ensure a university career in a serious university. Asylum and academic freedom require the protection of universities, such as these children, both by the hoodiers, the MATs and the immunity of employers - whether they are private or public - who are pushing them towards a standard reproduction of standard knowledge, which ultimately condemns their students to third-quality knowledge and will never make them competitive to either Greek or foreign students. Ladies and gentlemen, do you think that by abolishing the asylum, with one move, you will cut off the Gordian bond of lawlessness and interlocutory at universities? You're wrong. But there is one move that you can only make in New Democracy. You are the only ones who can do one thing on a night that will give rise to degrees of freedom, breath to the university community: Abort the IGC, the fact that it reproduces and exploits the complexion at the core of the Greek university, the fact that you are the ones who are breast-feeding the next generation of New Democracy officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u476	The President of the Change Movement, Mr. Gennimata, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u477	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the battle of impressions the country is not governed. We have lived through this all the previous years, and we have often been in front of deadlocks. You're trying, gentlemen of the government, to convince us you're under attack. Unfortunately, however, this is not an attempt to make efficiency on the basis of the sovereignty and transparency needed by the country, but it is an attack on centralism, authoritarianism and an attempt to restore the right-wing state. In short, machines were backward. We have told you in the programme statements that the first samples are disappointing. First you retreat to the lenders, now under pressure something you say about the primary surpluses, but the nipple here remains fine in the neck of the economy and of the Greek society. And we challenge you almost every day to present your plan here in Parliament in order to change these objectives. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] You have also changed radically on the issue of the Prespecies. You were talking about veto, and now you are talking about absolute compliance with the agreement. Political hypocrisy here too! And in the state you have a history. The famous re-establishment of the state follows you and haunts you. But already, Mr Mitsotakis - you are hearing, I imagine, from your office this debate - you are writing your own story in this area. As if the fifty-two general secretaries, appointed on the basis of purely party criteria, were not enough, you also voted on the law with the barbaric title: 'Extreme State'. Only, in the end, this state is imperial. Before the elections, for many months, you had made the state's colonization flag. Now, however, you are doing exactly the opposite. You serve centralism and you strengthen the country's pre-centric governance model. Even the ultimate responsibility for drafting the bills is transferred to the presidency of the Government, which is of course supported by hundreds of officials - the chosen ones - who will be the emperor's long hand in the administration. Of the good guys, we went to the good guys. How? With your specific choices, in very important positions, stickers, with controversial qualifications and profiles and, of course, with the choice of people of the Karamanlis government, who, through their actions and omissions, are responsible for the fiscal derailment of the economy, who misled the deficit data in 2009 and led to the tension and the memoranda. Now, their reward betrays New Democracy's obsession with that politics. So the new New Democracy staff is retreating and revealing its well-known old face. Mr Tsipras who I saw coming and took the floor - and relaunched the known conflicts and divisions, without substance and content - cannot today be an honourer, because it is his and his policy that brought Mr Mitsotakis and New Democracy back to power. Now, of course, he's scared because he sees what? He sees the inverted image of his own policy and sees that they have exactly the same goals. One is the conclusion, ladies and gentlemen. With these logics, New Democracy and Mr.Mitsotakis are taking the Greek state back and since the 1960s, reintroducing a man's principle to the new logic of government. Today, the government is attempting the second step. But that's exactly the same logic as the first one. Again in accordance with the urgent procedures, without substantial dialogue, without even having highlighted the problems of the KLISTENIS project, which they should have seen, in order to assess in practice what the SYRIZA reform means to the municipalities and regions of this country. Considering, therefore, that it has managed to control the majority of the self-government institutions, the New Democracy, through photographic arrangements, attempts to transfer powers to the mayor or regional director, thus significantly undermining the role of municipal and regional councils. It is trying to justify all these methods, of course, invoking the rule of law for the municipalities and regions. In fact, however, it simply makes discounts in democratic processes. The Change Movement strongly opposed SYRIZA's "KLITHENIS" project, on the basis of which the recent elections to self-government took place. We denounced it as a project, which leads to the domination of transaction and extortion, as a dangerous and extreme conservative conception of SYRIZA, which wants self-government very simply to be the long hand of the central state. We have asked for it to be abolished from the first time. This does not mean, however, that we can tolerate the arbitrary concentration, the qualified majority, the undermining of the democratic functioning of the self-government institutions. We don't reject SYRIZA's toys to do our own games. This is our great difference from New Democracy, which has opposed all the major sectors and reforms that have taken place in the area of self-government since our prolongation over time. I would like to highlight some critical points in relation to the bill. Firstly, we agree on the concessions. But when? When these are accompanied by a new joint programme, with principles, specific positions which will also be placed in the judgement of the municipal or regional council. We disagree with the draft law on transaction partnerships. In fact, it implements the best possible way, what SYRIZA wanted from the outset to do. Secondly, we disagree with the deterioration of municipal and regional councils. Artificial minorityes are being banned in majorities. We are proposing to provide for an essential process of dialogue, which will allow convergences and majorities to be created through the obligation to submit individual costly proposals on the technical programme and the budget, accompanied by an opinion from the financial service. In short, we should allow the councils to find real conquests and not trade pools. Thirdly, we could understand a strengthening of the role and decision-making in matters of everyday life by the elected mayor and regional director. But we do not agree with the arbitrary and artificial majority creation in the main committees, such as the Economic Commission and the City's Quality of Life Commission, or the region's own-initiative, nor with the appointed three-fifths majority in the legal persons of the municipalities. In fact, these are appointments by the mayor and not even elected by the new party, which will emerge after the partnerships and which will now have a majority on the board. All these points could, if they were accepted, improve some aspects of the bill, but without radically altering the negative image that both "CLITHENIS" and the efforts of the New Democracy create. The demands of the time are now different, ladies and gentlemen. The time has come for a great change in the state, decentralisation and self-government institutions. It was our sideline that inspired and applied all the major changes in the state. He boldly went on to very important reforms and to upgrade self-government. With the KAPDEISTIRIA, with KALIKARATI, we led to the region of the region and the three hundred and twenty-five municipalities that endured all these years of crisis and fought for development, as well as for social cohesion and the service of citizens. So we believe that as far as we ever have, instead of misery and turbulence and purposes, a real revolution is required in the state. And we suggest, first, that the state be converted into an executive. The country's defence and security policy, public order, foreign policy, public finances, general planning of health and education policies, the protection of our cultural heritage - here I am doing a very small parentheses, because, before discussing the revolution in culture, it would be well to operate the rider in the Acropolis - with a fair system of e-government evaluation and integration, with a remarkable staff of high quality staff. Secondly, on the basis of the principle of proximity, all decisions that can be taken at the fullest level are transferred to the municipalities, with the relevant resources. Thirdly, regional development is planned, coordinated and implemented by regional government. It is a project that requires brave transfer of funds from European regional programmes and the Property Tax. These were and remain our positions. We know very well that neither SYRIZA nor the New Democracy intend to discuss them and much more to implement them, because they do not want the independence and power of the self-government institutions. They don't believe in their role. They want to be controlled, and if they can't do that, they want to be dismantled, as SYRIZA did the previous time with this law. In the municipalities, regions, society, there are forces that adopt our own objectives and resist them. They'll claim and find themselves dynamically against those who think they've been undone by self-government, because today they're doing some micro-disciplines. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] With regard to e-government, I would like to remind you that the PASOK Government had moved on since 2010 in key areas to deal with bureaucracy and corruption, but also to strengthen democratic information. There wasn't all the time. Unfortunately, the bill repeats the governmental logic of the complexity of structures, overlapping powers, of many bodies implementing actions. But when we talk about a digital era, we are also talking about simple, clear, transparent solutions and procedures. Here we have six bodies with numerous management boards, presidents, directors, staff, facilities, precisely the opposite of what we need to do, waste of resources, dissemination of responsibilities, misuse of human resources. It will be negative for the country, for the economy, for citizens to lose another great opportunity for digital transformation. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the issue of university asylum. For our part, it is an unreserved principle to guarantee academic freedom in research and teaching, the free movement of ideas in higher education institutions, and to deal with the phenomena of violence and lawlessness, which unfortunately are developing all these years within the EIT. All laws, however, adopted since 1982, then included provisions providing for the intervention of a public power, i.e. the police, in cases of illegal activities in the academic areas, even the law of the SYRIZA in the case of felony cases. In particular, however, Law 4009/2011, which was passed by a large majority in the House, governed by article 3, academic freedom and provided that the common criminal law applied to criminal offences committed within the premises of the HEIs. Have all these laws solved the problems? Unfortunately, no, because the political will was lacking from the respective government and the police, and also because the academic community did not cooperate as it should. It is time to give a realistic legislative solution to the issue of asylum and with political will to do so. This is why it is very important that a large majority should be formed in this House on this subject, because ultimately the possibility of police intervention does not solve all the problems. The abatto in Exarchia is not provided for by any legislation. Our aim, therefore, is to deal with illegal acts without creating a picture of the police rule of the HR. There can be no free patrols, as if it were the purchase of a region. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] The police can't show up without any criminal act. There is no need to establish a Department of Law, Polytechnic, SAOE, Panteios etc. It's impossible in practice. There aren't even the powers to do that. Nor can they be on a daily basis within universities and check that there is a problem again. I would add that no one who is unreliable with universities should be allowed to go to their premises without a special visitor permit, as is the case in most advanced countries. We are positive for private care, but also for entry cards for institutions, as is happening throughout the world, but we are extremely negative about the imposition of a police regime directly contrary to the self-resident, autonomy, respect for academic institutions. Unfortunately, paragraph 3 of the government's proposal allows the negative situations to prevail, gives the possibility of misinterpretation. We will not agree on it, while we consider paragraphs 1 and 2 to be positive. We therefore call on the Government to understand where these logics lead and to amend paragraph 3. We have proposed a specific, simple, effective, alternative wording for this paragraph. What does it say? ‘Where criminal offences are committed, common legislation shall apply within the premises of the higher education institutions without prior approval of any of their institutions’. Clear words, no margin of misinterpretation. What did we actually do? We took the PASOK law, the previous one, which had been voted on by a very large majority here, because we were all saying that improvements are needed. We've identified two issues. One is that when there is a hindrance right outside the university door and the police are chasing those who commit the crime and entering the university to ask for "asylum", obviously they can't have any asylum and the police can arrest them. And that must be very clean. On the other hand, it had to be very clear - not to have a ball of responsibility between unresponsibles - that there is no need for any prior approval of a university institution for the police to do their job when a criminal act is carried out. How much clearer do you think what needs to be done, so no alibi can do his job? I invite you even now to accept it, or you will bear a great responsibility, because the Caucasus of Hail in the universities will be opened in the autumn. And the worst thing is that there will be no effectiveness, we will not achieve the goal that we all have and the great majority of Greek society. It cannot continue to do what is done at universities at the expense of our children, at the expense of the Greek people. And we have a responsibility to give a strong message today and tomorrow to this Chamber all. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will not follow the follow-up to the election conflict, the divisive polarisation between Tsipras - Mitsotakis, Mitsotakis - Tsipras, which seems to relive from the first steps in this new period, a divisive polarisation that actually does not have content. A central element of their review these days was who appointed most best friends. On the matter of the Committee on Competition, the Government is prosecuting Mrs Thanos, whose practices we have often condemned - personally and in writing, I have reacted to the way she tried to intervene - but in no way is it interested in giving a definitive end to the phenomena of partyism and transaction for the choices of persons who manage the independent authorities. It suits you, gentlemen of the government, to remain party officials as Heads or members of various independent authorities. We have tabled an amendment today which puts an end to these practices. Any transaction shall be prevented and the political occupation of the independent authorities shall not be allowed. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] We therefore ask both the government and all the parties in this House to accept it. I repeat once again that we are fighting, responsible and programmed opposition, always with our own proposals, the alternatives we are making from the Stepping of the House, so we are also voting against the provisions that are returning to us in the past, which undermine the institutions, which make the citizens captives of the customer logic and of the client state. That is why we are also voting against provisions which do not serve the public interest, which suddenly change agreements and contracts in favour of third parties. So let everyone understand it very well. We will do what our responsibility and conscience impose, not their own intentions and the rings. It's over and out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u478	Ms Maria Konnakas from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u479	Mr President, I asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u480	I didn't follow you. Is there a matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u481	Yes, there is one issue, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u482	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u483	Just now we have been distributed to us a text entitled 'legislative improvements'. In fact, it is enough to take a look at just a few points to see that normal amendments have been intrused here. Suffice to see even the last one, the so-called 65-substantiated legislative improvement, to see that normal new provision is added, 'the competence of the President of the EOT to approve expenditure of between fifty and a hundred thousand euros'. So, looking at surfaces and number 56 on issues of electronic, digital governance, we see the addition of three entire subparagraphs to Article 59. This document must be withdrawn. We need to clarify what is legislative improvement, which, in principle, if I am not mistaken, concerns a factual, editorial or grammar corrections that have been invented in the text, and to distinguish the amendments and come in accordance with the normal procedure of the amendments. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u484	Yes, sir. Your observation has been recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u485	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u486	Here, Mr Georgioda, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u487	In a bill in which there are many of the ministries involved we have given time - because tomorrow we will vote - the legislative improvements, most of which are purely formal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u488	Not all of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u489	Most of them, most of them. I am listening to what Members have said, but in essence it is an addition of competence to texts that already exist, which are added, let us say, an extra competence, such as what Mr Kamine said. But there is the possibility of seeing it - we are not voting today - and of hearing your objections, and of course the ministers responsible will be here to judge what will eventually happen. I have an answer - and on this occasion I have taken the floor - to Mr Polakis on the observation he had rightly made earlier in relation to Article 61(16), where there was provision in the original text that the three staff seats of experts from the old Ministry of Administrative Reform, now transferred to the Ministry of Digital Governance, are converted into permanent staff. In the legislative improvement, this paragraph has been deleted. He was rightly observed. The author's intention was to reflect our decision not to be staff posts with a three-year term of office which, as the previous government had brought it, will be renewed every time, but to be permanent staff, and this will be done, but it is not for the three persons concerned by the four hundred twenty-fifths of all the staff of the Ministry of Administrative Reform. Of course they're deleted. Mr. Paulakis quite rightly observed that. They had already been deleted from Monday, just now came all the legislative improvements and it is understood that these two paragraphs of course are being deleted. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u490	Mr President, I would like the floor for an amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u491	Wait a minute, because the amendments will be supported first and foremost. I just want to say, Mr. Georgioda, that Mr. Kamine's objection has already been lodged. I would ask you to see again what is a legislative improvement. It's very specific. You have time as a government to turn the legal improvement into a normal amendment. In other words, additions or omissions of large parts that change the article are an amendment. Finally, Mrs Konnakas, with the communist patience you have shown, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u492	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, it is worth wondering how the urgent procedure followed today is justified for most - if not all - articles of the legislation under discussion. I'm a fast track debate about a bill - a broom of competence 15 ministries. It does not, of course, seem to us, as regards the article on the abolition of academic asylum, that your choice of August, when we are very much in favour of it, is that the reactionary changes to education should come with schools and universities closed down. Because what you are afraid of, what bothers you in asylum is student mobilisations, the claim for better terms in work and life with rights. Already the forces of the "fighting students" front are organizing their first reactions and we are sure that massly and organized will continue popular mobilizations so that this law will stay on paper. You want to impose cemetery silence and at universities similar to the one you seek to prevail in the workplace. Because this suits a university with asylum in the naval programmes, in research on behalf of business groups, a university - an enterprise that is the New Democracy's declared long-term goal, which, of course, was very successful in serving both SYRIZA - old and young - as well as former PASOK. That is why none of you are making a fuss about living and education conditions, about what they are really employing and employing students, about continuing underfunding with huge shortages in staff and infrastructure, about lack of student attention, the categorisation of degrees, about the generalization of tuition in postgraduate programmes, and so much so that they create insecurity for students, who exclude young people from access to higher education because of the unreliable costs of the already broken people's income. You are using as a pretext the fight against crime at universities. But the current framework allows the police to intervene automatically to deal with crimes, crimes against life and with the permission of the Republican Council in any other criminal act. What is the truth that has prevented the fight against drug trafficking in universities all these years, even between 2011 and 2007, and PASOK that the abolition of asylum has been the case? In the neighborhoods of Athens, Thessaloniki, unfortunately throughout the province that blooms, what asylum prevents you from intervening? It is your policy, the policy of all urban parties that cultivates 'drug culture' and does not hesitate to push the drug plates into universities, for example by creating surveillance facilities within them. It is not, of course, your goal of combating smuggling, because, before you arrive outside the OSCE to catch the last wheel of the car, you would be trying to look for the engine, the big fish of the smuggling that they treasure and circulate as reputable businessmen away from university institutions. Perhaps, of course, they come in a little bit as investors in universities from another door. Nor is it, of course, the asylum that encourages the action of the so-called boulders, but on the contrary, these mechanisms are used to fight asylum, as they are being exploited to bring the labour movement of people into places not covered by asylum and yet acting unnecessarily. None of this is the real aim of the government. The only aim is to force the full commercialisation of education by iron means, while at the same time establishing the popular awareness that the acquired people's struggles in the previous decades have all been called into question. Your predecessors of the SYRIZA government have handed you a competent legislative arsenal for this. They have ensured, despite the general tendency to reduce penalties in all criminal offences under the Criminal Code, not only to maintain, but also to increase penalties for offences only in respect of public service and public transport, offences normally charged to strike popular mobilisations. That is why, despite the fictitious pre-election disputes over the changes in the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, you leave with the current amendments their overall reactionary character, the American reactive institutions that favour the financially powerful, and fundamentally affect the rights of the accused, the problematic provisions that lead to a horizontal reduction in penalties, even for serious felonies, for which you are lifting disorientated heinously, but, in their essence, you agree. In conclusion, I should like to refer to the issue which particularly concerned the local society of Lesbos, which has also been devolved from the minimum decision-making powers given to the Community Councils. Clearly we disagree and we will vote against this change, but focusing confrontation on them only on the lame responsibilities of the Community Councils overshadow the main reason that has led both the villages and the cities of our islands, but also in general. Besides, of course, the anti-popular policies that literally drained people's income are also the suffocating framework for the functioning of the local administration's institutions, which is now going on on the straddled path of the reforms "KAPPOSTRIA", "KARICA" and "KALITHENI", because the powers without state resources are those that dismantle municipalities and communities, which turn them into tax-sensitive mechanisms and opens a splendid field for business, excluding projects to protect and improve the lives of the people's blocks in both cities and villages, because this is a cost and does not affect their profits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u493	Thank you, too. Mr Stagiras will present an amendment with a general number of 12 and a special number 1, and immediately thereafter, similar to Mr Besiropoulos, they will present the amendment with a general number of 19 and a special number 7.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u494	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will make two brief comments and four comments. First of all, Rule 85, to answer what I was not in committee. As you know, there were two presidential Decrees 81 and 84 of 2019, from which various organisational changes have arisen in the structure of the state. For there to be an uninterrupted implementation of the budget, therefore, what is being done is that on the basis of the administrative classification of the State budget up to 7-7-19 it will also be done for them, and that is why the relevant financial powers from the Directorates-General for Economic Affairs will also be exercised by the institutions from which they come. It is a purely formal issue because of organic change. Article 86. In Article 86, the Rules of Procedure shall be adopted by a decision of the Minister of Finance on a recommendation from the Committee on the Supervision and Control of Games. What do we actually do? We dominate a provision of the act of legislative content of the previous government tabled at the end of June. Amendment with a general number of 12 and a special 1 that is now Article 107. What does that just say? There is again the head of the Economic Expert Council. It will also represent the country in various international forums, so it has an increased workload. Therefore, if he is a university, he should be suspended. Finally, in Amendment No 19, and in the second part - the other part - will be developed by the Minister responsible, Mr Besyropoulos - there is the Systemic Stability Council. That has seven members. There is now a State Secretary to the Government responsible for financial policy. So he's also added to the members of the Systemic Stability Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u495	Mr. Besiropoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u496	Thank you, Mr President. Amendments to Article 17 of the Tax Code are introduced to the amendment under a general number 19 and a special 7. In particular, paragraph 1 of the proposed provision extends the purpose of providing data and information to the services of general government bodies. In other words, they are allowed to gain access to all the elements of the tax administration in order to facilitate the recovery of taxpayers' debts to them. Paragraph 2 of the proposed provision removes the conditions for the provision of taxpayers’ register data for legal and natural persons for which information is data such as, for example, name, tax number, DU, etc., to general government bodies for legal persons governed by public law with a view to facilitating cooperation with tax administration and effective exchange of data and data by making the relevant checks and cross-checks more rapid. Paragraph 3 allows the Ministry of Digital Governance to be provided within the framework of its competences with personalised data by tax number and aggregated data held by the tax administration in order to facilitate interoperability between the information systems of public sector entities and the general public sector. The Privacy Authority with an opinion issued in 2016 had authorised the transmission of such data to ELSTAT. Such information shall include both registration information, name, father name, address of residence and profession, contact phone, type of activity and tax content information. Finally, paragraph 4 changes the method of granting the taxpayer's consent in the event of disclosure to third parties or information concerning him. In particular, an express, special written or electronic consent will now be required to disclose the information concerning it. It should be noted that only written consent is now required. Finally, the possibility of withdrawing the above consent is added. Under the proposed provision of Article 84 of the bill we are discussing today, Article 184 of Law 2960/2001 of the Customs Code is amended. The term of the pending court case shall be specified, in order to make it clear and clear that such a case shall be understood to mean cases pending before the ordinary administrative courts or the Council of State following an appeal or a ordinary appeal or appeal or appeal or appeals for appeal or for which the time limit for bringing proceedings or regular appeal or appeal is pending. In this way, the dispute in question is resolved and a uniform and comprehensive interpretation of what cases are understood as pending in court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u497	The amendments have already been distributed. Mrs Mani - Papadimitriou has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u498	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that during the debate on this draft law - and let me express it - the lights of the scene are mainly focused on issues relating to local government and the provision of the Ministry of Education, which are indeed issues of particular political importance. However, I will start my position by focusing on the regulation that is accelerating by the Ministry of Health and putting an end to the tails of shame, which were formed daily in the pharmacy of the EEA, and which relieves thousands of cancer patients and suffers from multiple sclerosis from the suffering that existed to provide their medications. Our fellow citizens will now be able to obtain high-cost medicines without a financial burden for themselves, both for the EEA and for the pharmacies in their neighborhood. Our Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, promised this and today this promise is being made. And it is the starting point of a series of measures aimed at alleviating our fellow citizens who belong to particularly sensitive social groups. At this point - and I would like to address the head of the Ministry of Health - it might be right to include in the list above and medicines used by cancer patients after the chemo. I mean, include those in the EPPY list. With regard to the issues of local government, ladies and gentlemen, you have referred to the allegedly unconstitutionality of the provisions mentioned in the first part of the bill, when the law that you voted on, KLISTENIS, is effectively being circumvented by the constitutional provision of Article 102, which guarantees the powers of local government, because the law that you voted for clearly leads municipalities and regions to total insolvency. And we're not talking about hypothetical times. We're talking about now. We are talking about that being in danger of happening in two weeks. And what would result if this law were applied? It would be impossible to take decisions on a number of issues relating to the daily lives of our fellow citizens, such as the transport of pupils to schools, the cleanliness of the municipality, water, irrigation, roads and much more important, such as voting on their budgets. And this bill comes and gives a solution to these problems, as it now legislates the partnerships between the elected factions, so that there is a self-evident possibility, that is, the possibility of making decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, the next key issue of today's bill is - within many introductorys - 'university asylum'. And I say in many introductory words, because in addition to having no constitutional guarantee, it has come to be an asylum for illegality and for all kinds of illegal activity, such as trafficking in drugs, drug abuse, the prevalence of teachers, students, officials, material disasters in buildings and students. And the list isn't over! And on this point, ladies and gentlemen, you know very well that Article 16 of the Constitution - which is perhaps the most complex article in the Constitution - is a grid of individual freedoms and rights, it is an asylum of individual and social rights. And when, ladies and gentlemen of Anti-Population, the doors of the teachers are sealed, is the constitutional right to free teaching not violated? And when we have a violent break in courses, isn't the constitutional right to unobstructed follow-up of the courses violated? You said, of course, that the provision in question as it stands, namely the Gabroglou Law, does not raise any problems, as it provides that the police may enter the university in cases of crimes, life-crime crimes and other cases following a decision by the Republican Council. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] But let us all ask ourselves what is happening, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, and on the basis of common sense, if it is possible in practice to implement this provision. At a time when a crime is being committed, ladies and gentlemen - and let us assume that it is late at night - who will assess and who will determine whether the offence at that time is a felony or a flood and - as the provision stands - will be called upon to convene, convene, engage in legal matters, characterise the offence as a crime or a crime, and accordingly call for police intervention? This, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be done. The proposed regulation is now ceasing the work of asylum and the deterioration of academic freedom. The competent authorities may, within the universities, exercise all their powers under the law, including the intervention, as a result of criminal offences. The new regulation simply restores common sense and restores asylum to its true meaning, which is no more than the safeguarding of academic freedom, as the Scientific Service of the Parliament pointed out. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a duty to our fellow citizens who have honoured and trusted us with their vote, to make decisions that ensure the public interest and preserve public property. And this government is determined to move in this very direction, introducing this bill and implementing the Greek society's demand for the restoration of the true concept of asylum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u499	The next speaker is Mr Panagis Cappatos from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u500	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of my first speech as a Member of the Kefalonias and Ithaca, I would like to thank my fellow citizens in the one-sided region of our islands for the confidence they have shown on my face. This is a double price if we consider that the seat of Kefalonia and Ithaca returns to New Democracy twelve years later. It is therefore a bet for us, on the one hand, to highlight the problems of our island society and, on the other, to meet the responsibility arising from the election result of 7 July. Ladies and gentlemen, today's plenary session of the Greek Parliament is not yet about a bill or an inter-ministerial bill that only covers a number of provisions. It concerns regulation in all cases of urgency, because the need to address the problems the bill cures is forcing us to legislate today. Both the nature of the bill and the time available to me restrict me to mention two important interventions from the many and urgent things we are discussing today: the need for a smooth functioning of the local government bodies and the restoration of academic freedom to the highest education institutions in the country. With regard to the first, in order to understand the importance of the measures being taken, we have only to ask ourselves whether the existing framework favours normality in decision-making by the municipalities and regions. If they can perform unresponsively and with elementary continuity their fundamental functions and if ultimately self-government is attributed to OTAs or not. The answer, ladies and gentlemen, is not difficult to give. Most of us come from electoral districts that SYRIZA's inspiration brought local self-government to a dead end. We know firsthand what a democratically elected mayor means, without any decision being taken at the level of consultants. We understand the danger of division and fragmentation in the governing bodies of municipalities and regions. However, because it is not enough to find a problem, but we must find a solution, today's bill responds to this very problem. Institutional framework for the association of orders, the possibility of implementing programmes that the citizens adopted with their vote, through the majority of the mayor and the district manager in the committees, but also a substantial evaluation of the work of Vice-Presidents and Vice-Presidents, through the reduction of their term of office to one year. In other words, we can talk about a conception of an executive state at the level of local government. Mayors and districters regain the power to mirror the people's mandate and at the same time the decision-making bodies acquire clear competences, their effectiveness is shielded and pluralism is ensured by institutions. With regard to academic freedom, the arrangements of the Minister of Education respond for years to the collapse of the concept of asylum. The free expression of ideas, the production of new knowledge and the uninterrupted execution of teaching work within the IOIs were violated thanks to an elastic concept of asylum that has been cultivated for many years by the political system. Freedom gave its place to immunity. The protection of ideas has retreated in support of the impunity of criminals and Greek universities have become north on the grounds of violations of ordinary criminal law. But let us see, in the event of a crime being committed within the IGC, what should have happened, in accordance with the existing institutional framework. At the end of the crime, the information had to reach the dean, he would seek the members of the dean council and, if available, meet. Then, after deciding whether it was a fall, a misdemeanor, a felony or a crime against life, then they would - in theory, always - be able to notify the police. Today this is a good stop, since we are living in a free society with the rule of law to regulate order and institutional normality. Why should our universities be treated as something that needs to be treated differently? In adopting the draft law, the competent authorities exercise all their powers under the law, including the intervention of criminal offences within the premises of IOI. With the bill in force, the area of IOIs is treated as the common public space and common sense finally returns to public debate. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I think it is quite clear that the reform treaties - a minute of your tolerance, Mr President - of an institution of history, but also twisted at the same time have come. With the bill we are discussing today, we give the university asylum its essential nature; freedom of ideas and speech, research and teaching without censorship, university spaces free to students, teachers and their workers. In simple terms, we finally put an end to the asylum of crime, violence and illegality that we face every day in higher education institutions in the country and give space to asylum for creativity, progress, innovation, research and education to the Greek public university. And you have no doubt that this bill provides for the self-evident provision for higher education, but that was still required until yesterday. Today's President of Parliament, Mr. Tasoulas, wrote in March 1990: "The concept of university asylum has nowadays become the ideological basis of an attack that threatens to deform, divert and disorientate the universities from the execution of their purpose. The purpose of the university shall be to produce and transmit knowledge, to promote aware citizens and to cultivate critical thinking.’ That is what we are now called on to preserve and strengthen. The risk, therefore, is freedom to any manifestation of political and social life, to the movement of ideas in our universities and to the exercise of power in local government that is not artificially obstructed, as the former government has attempted, but is controlled and accountable to the citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u501	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u502	Today's bill is exactly what it achieves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u503	Mr George Kotsos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u504	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very moved and honoured to address the national Parliament today. This is my first time, and I would like to begin by thanking the President of the New Democracy and Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, who has given me the honour to participate in the ballot and, of course, my compatriots, Cardinals and Cardinals who have honoured me with their vote and have given me the right to address the National Representation today. Ladies and gentlemen, in the elections of 7 July the people of Greece, the Greeks and the Greeks ordered Kyriakos Mitsotakis and our Government to make the leap faster than corruption. And that is what the current government is trying to do, and they deserve great congratulations to both the Prime Minister and the ministers who are very prepared, very rapid and at the same time, we also call on the other parties to follow this speed and this preparedness. At the same time, the Greek people demand that the government make the revolution self-evident. Because it is self-evident for a people who are oppressed by overtaxation, to reduce HISPIA. It is self-evident for a society that is highly indebted to, to be able to favour its debts. It is self-evident for our citizens, who are afflicted by a slow, difficult and difficult public administration, to have legislation on the state which will give speed and efficiency to the service of citizens. It goes without saying, ladies and gentlemen, that the collective bodies of local democracy can take decisions, resolve local affairs quickly, because this is what citizens expect from local authorities and not eternal philosophical discussions within municipal councils, which will not end up anywhere. SYRIZA's colleagues are reassured that they voted for the simple analogue. They forget, however, that they succeeded in making use of the enhanced analogue, the strengthened majority of the fifty seats given to them by the previous law. And, of course, we are talking about analogy with four different expressions: in the single-member bodies where we have an absolute majority, because the one who gets most votes, as much as he gets, becomes president, and in the local multi-member councils we have a simple analogue in the election of local councillors and an indirect election of the president, to the municipal councils simply proportional to municipal councillors and second round to the mayor. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, what still remains unexplainable to me today, despite the very many years in which I served local government, and also in relation to public administration, is self-evident, which is not self-evident, that our state has no institutional memory. I say this because SYRIZA's colleagues are protesting about the way in which it is now changing who will be president on the local councils. I would remind them that with Law 3852/2010, the most famous 'KALIKRATI', Mr Ragus, a PASOK official at that time, introduced for the municipal communities the indirect election of the president. I can inform you that the problems that have arisen at the time were too much. That is why again Mr Ragus, a SYRIZA executive today, restored the direct election, that is, the majority advisor to the majority of the combination was the president. It is self-evident, ladies and gentlemen, that cancer patients can quickly and immediately take the medicines at home. Finally, it is the one described in Article 64(3). Then the competent authorities will be able to intervene when we have infringements in universities. Indeed, there is also the need for verbal acrobaticism, but also for reasonable arbitrage, in order to support the opposite. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that Mr Mitsotakis and the government are making the leap faster than corruption. I would like to suggest to SYRIZA colleagues if they cannot monitor this leap, at least not stumbling and obstacles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u505	The next speaker is Mr Papachristopoulos from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u506	Mr President, I would like to speak on an amendment tabled. It's a mistake and it needs to be reinstated.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u507	Mr. Papachristopoulos, you'll be waiting a while. Here, Mr Polakis, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u508	There is an amendment, signed by Mr Stavoura, Mr Theodorikos and Mr Vorides, concerning the Ministry of Rural Development. I will talk about the substance when I have to, but I do not know whether Mr Stavrou or Mr Vorides will defend it. It is about the Ministry of Rural Development.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u509	Mr. Vorides will be here, so hang on, and when Mr. Vorides comes, you will be taking the intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u510	Listen to me. It is a mistake because this is an zoonosis CIA, but from their rush they have submitted a special report under Article 75(3) of the Constitution, where Mr Voridis is referred to as the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs. It was badly accepted by the services. It is an amendment concerning the Ministry of Rural Development. He's not Mr. Voridis Minister for Labour and Social Affairs...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u511	Well, of course it isn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u512	...and it has to be reinstated, because we are actually going to talk. We're transferring know-how from the Ministry of Health to the Ministry of Rural Development.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u513	Mr. Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u514	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin a bit differently, otherwise, because I have lived in the last four and a half years in this House, very closely, because in the party to which I belonged from the nine Members, the seven were Ministers and we have both done all the parliamentary work. I am entitled, therefore, to say that the anthropogeography and exactly what happened in this Chamber, and I know it well, like some other colleagues. I just want to remind you and say good words about four ministers of this government, for example, Mr Tindemans, who said that foreign policy, although the government was left, was the right one. I should like to say to Mr Stakora that there is no financial problem for 2019. And to say, for two other ministers, Mr. Panayotopoulos, Minister of National Defence, and for the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, who say good words about the Treaty of Ambassadors. You know, reality is different and you do often behave deeply when you're opposition, when you're government land. I do not want to remind you here of what I was listening to two or three months ago, and I was one of these many colleagues who have been in favour of the Treaty of Ambassadors. Today's tomb silence. Nobody's talking. I'll say good-bye. Let's go to today. I would like to start with a report by Leandros Rakinzis of the Secretary-General of Public Administration, who was not appointed by the government at the time, but who kept him - and he did well - because he did his work very well. Did you hear then who were leading the corruption? Exhibition by Leandros Rakinzis on July 20, 2015, in the first months of governance: municipalities and town planning. Do you know what status the municipalities had at the time? A male principle! The mayor didn't decide to hit the opposition, he didn't go to say what Leandros Rakinji wants. They and towns were first in corruption. So the government comes and institutionalizes simply proportionally to the municipalities, self-evident things, to control the mayor, the farm for corruption that the municipalities are to stop. And before we look at the results of this new, let's say, situation, you're coming to abolish the simple analogue to the municipalities. Why would you do that? Don't you at least let you see how it works, how it's going to go? The answer to me is easy. It is a pretext for the other great change that you have in mind later, the simple analogue at the state level. There again I would like to remind you that a country with beastly almightys, the ones you dream of again, went bankrupt and looted. I do not want to exacerbate the climate, but it is our issue, the simple analogue to the municipalities, and I believe that it is a prerequisite for what you have in mind later on and for the state. I think you're wrong. In all the countries of the European Union - and other colleagues have told them - it is simply analogous that the parties are forced not to be plunged, abused among themselves, but to come to an agreement. It's a difficult step? It's hard. Does it have to be done? You have to. Why are you preventing it? I think you're wrong. I want to move on, because I've already spent a lot of time on asylum. I want to remind you of the asylum that it is a conquest of centuries. If you don't know, read the story. Asylum and public university are special terms. If you don't know, find out. And it's a democracy institution that's a sanctuary. And even though you don't know that, I want to remind you of a great professor - who I don't think there is one in this room that disputes him - the Aristobulu Manesis. You know what he said? When you question asylum, you question the public university and you question democracy. I can give you when and when the Master of Menesis wrote what I'm telling you. And even - listen - transparent, passionately preaches order and security within universities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Yes, there is order and security in speculative institutions and there is no asylum. It is these institutions - to get together - that make scratches of the system, where eighty-five people - I will be tiring to say it - on the planet have assets as much as half the poor planet. In these speculative institutions, yes, there is no asylum. They're training good minds to become the gear of a system. Is that what we want? I say no. It separates us abyss. We don't want that thing. There is no such thing in Carolineska either in Sorbonne or in dozens of European universities and in some Americans that are few.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u515	Mr. Papachristopoulos, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u516	I shall conclude, Mr President. I need a little personal report on the asylum. In the years of the junta Babis and Christakis were the insurers of the School of Medicine for those who remember. Then we were all gathering out of the physiology amphitheatre and stepping on the asylum on the junta we did what we did. We were few, of course, students, who exist, but the late, Papastauridis, the late Lefteris the Dragon, Costas the Laliotis. And I remember the characteristics of Babi and Christakis that they were turning - we knew - but they had a respect even on a junta that did not dare to abolish. Why are you doing this, anyway? And when Kostas Laliotis was plucked - with decency, I must confess, “ follow us” - and he was snatched in the car of Security, but outside the clinging of medicine and ate the bear's wood in the Mediterranean Sea, they showed a practice not respect - the junta had no respect - but it calculated the asylum. I think you're opening a page that you'll find in front of you. Now you don't understand exactly what you're doing, you'll understand after a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u517	The next speaker is Mr Sarakiotis John from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u518	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the closure of the country's government only one month after New Democracy continues to demonstrate an unprecedented zeal and a clear obsession with the issues that it flagged as an opposition and with the communication use of which it also came to power. In the absence of serious criticism in the economy - where, incidentally, your first bill has been set on solid rather than sound budgetary foundations, which the worst government of all times has inherited you - in the rest of the major issues that concern our country, New Democracy has chosen to focus its opposition criticism on areas with non-measurable elements, such as the sense of security for citizens. You are still investing in anger today, working on the issue of security, linking it to the institution of asylum, and you are coming to abolish it, in the middle of a summer racist, without adequate consultation, to satisfy only your expressed ideal. The abolition of university asylum is a clear signal of politics and intentions as to how to exercise the country's governance. It is a tangible sign of writing on the philosophy and worthy background of your political party, which has been the most brutal proof of the Greek public universities in recent years. You have chosen consciously to degrade them with your rhetoric, not only institutions themselves, but also thousands of academic teachers, students who enjoy recognition globally on the basis of a number of rating indicators. Instead of going through the necessary consultation with the academic community from which the real problems of universities would emerge, you preferred to bring an authoritarian piece of legislation, considering the abolition of asylum to be a panacea and ignoring the existing institutional framework. And in order for our fellow citizens to know, there has already been the institutional framework since 2017, according to which public power is allowed to intervene in the premises of the CITs on their own initiative in cases of felonies, as well as in cases of crimes against life and in any case following a decision by the Rector's Board. Instead of considering how to apply the law and respond to the challenges posed, you resort to communal crowns of the type "insurance law" and to your totalitarian logic, but also to your conscious choice "head hurts him, cuts his head". Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you do not often accept SYRIZA's claim that for some years you have been a peculiar neoliberal neo-liberalism, with a strong right-wing dose. Unfortunately, once again we are confirmed, as in the first bill of the Ministry of Education you are even blocking your own political, ideological and legislative affiliation, since this does not remind nothing of the law of 2007 of the then Minister Mariettas Giannakou. I therefore read Article 3 of Law 3549/2007 which the ladies and gentlemen of the New Republic had voted on: ‘Section 4. The academic asylum covers all the premises of the HEI in which education and research is carried out. A public force shall not be allowed to intervene in the above areas except on the occasion of the invitation or authorisation of the competent institution of the institution and in the presence of a representative of the judicial authority.’; We also come to paragraph 7 which you supported from the Step of Parliament, but which you had voted for, because at the time you were MPs or ministers: "The violations of the provisions of this article on academic asylum are punished by imprisonment of at least six months, following the indictment of the competent body referred to in paragraph 5 of that article, or of the assembly for universities and the TEI Assembly." I will leave it to you in the Minutes, if you remember, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, how New Democracy once was and not to question in future our allegations of the mutation of your party, as something unknown has now happened even to many of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u519	The next speaker is Mr Constantine Heitas, from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u520	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since this morning I have heard the speeches of colleagues, ministers, parliamentary representatives, all colleagues here. And I'm trying to get into the mind of colleagues on the left, SYRIZA and the Communist Party of Greece. I'm trying to figure out why we need to waste so much time talking about self-defense. For me or for us, if you want, in the Greek Solution, some things are self-evident. Our logic is that we always follow logic. That's what we're talking about. On asylum, I should like to say two or three things, because everything has been heard today. Everyone says what they want. I fully respect what it protects and what the party and ideological manual of the SYRIZA or of the KKE or of Mr Papachristopoulos etc., but you have to understand that today in 2019 where we live - because I am sure most of you have children who study, as I am in my forty-five years - will have to go safe to university and return from it. And Mr. Varoufakis described us in a very nice and lazy way what he lived that afternoon, that evening, down in the basement he taught, and Mr. Papachristopoulos traveled us into the junta. What does the junta have to do with 2019? I still don't understand. What does this have to do with what he's lived up to, these black pages of Greek history today? So why should asylum, which is an asylum of ideas, not nest it, not dwell in a university that will make health in buildings that will be clean, in buildings that will be free from drug dealers? What for? I don't get it. What does asylum have to do with living conditions? It's just things. Madam Minister, it's in the right direction, go ahead. We ask you as a favor, however, to do so. Many times he's tried. I heard Mrs Gennamas say: 'it was ours', 'our articles', 'that you took and copyed', 'the PASOK, the New Democracy'. We want results. Can you clean up our universities? You can drive out the drug dealers, the blockage, the rapists, etc. From in there? Can you clean up our university? You mentioned examples of what is happening in Europe. But you did not tell us that you are entering Europe with a tab in it. Here as soon as you hear that there has to be security at universities, Greek citizens trained to be at the door to check who comes in and who comes out, you're creeping. You're sore. You should be in favor of class. Nothing more and nothing less. We have tabled a detailed amendment, Mrs Kerameau, with proposed changes in our bill. We are talking about tightening the sentences, we think that after the second time that the same person has been arrested either by molotovs or by bats or sprays, etc. to destroy public property, there should be a malicious act to think about it better. A little comment - to run it a little - on Mrs Thanos. Mr. Velopoulos said it this morning. We are clearly talking about a photographic device. We're not talking about it. We highlight the hypocrisy of everyone. We don't care about Mrs. Thanou. We are interested in this lisverish, that “your people are leaving to come.” It is more obvious that the New Democracy is trying to break down the state that SYRIZA built and establish its own. What don't you understand? If Mrs Thanos is hers, ours, ours, ours, etc. It's yours. We're not concerned with Mrs. Thanou. I answer the world he asks us why we are against this case. Let's go a little bit to the worthy people you're talking about. We say that you do not want to be worthy, gentlemen of the New Democracy, you want to see the best friends. A very brief comment on the NSA. They were analysed yesterday. The gentleman who took over the S.H.I.E.L.D., doubtless trustworthy, surname. I don't understand exactly what you have in mind. That you don't want to be worthy, but you want your people to prove it, too, this terrible cynicism is a Komaneci of the New Democracy and Mr. Mitsotakis. I'm from the second of Thessaloniki, and my work is a journalist. Like now - twenty-five years I've been radioing - I've been talking with ministers, MPs, listening to how useless the prime minister's office was. Mr. Mitsotakis, who is not here, your statement on 28 March 2018: "I think that all the degradation and abandonment of the city is reflected in the useless for the citizen, but useful for the Prime Minister's party rousfetti office in Thessaloniki." And you keep it, Mr. Mitsotakis, and Mrs. Maria Antonios takes over. I don't know the lady. Excellent. I make the statement in the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the statement referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Here, ladies and gentlemen, to listen to our youths, our children, my daughter, your children who are studying, what dignity is there in Greece. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Do you know how they take the seats? They take the positions with the following qualifications: studies - I do not know the lady and may be excellent - school years at ONNED, university at the DPRK, chairman of the prefecture committee at the ONNED Kastoria. Congratulations on your performance! They're taking over. Guys of the narrow party tube. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, when you accuse SYRIZA of looking at yourself in the mirror. According to Mr Adoni Georgiadis, the Prime Minister's office is useless. "Four thousand people have lost the CSCE for the Prime Minister's office in Thessaloniki." This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Mr. Georgiades, go to the prime minister's office and see if it works well. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Heitas, presents for the minutes the statement referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would like to close with an irrelevant subject, but very relevant and timely. He said our president, Mr. Velopoulos, this morning, that it is time to set our own EOZ. Today, ladies and gentlemen, the Turkish Minister for Energy Donmez - I will put it in the Minutes - made statements and said that, according to HURRIYET, drilling reached a depth of seventeen hundred metres. And we're sleeping the sleep of the law. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Heitas, presents for the minutes the statement referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Good night and thank you very much!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u521	The next speaker is Mrs Alexopoulou Christina from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u522	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when I begin my first speech from this step by the national Parliament, I am self-evidently engaged in feelings of emotion, gratitude and gratitude to God, to my family, to my colleagues and my country's compatriots, the citizens of Achaia, who gave me the responsibility to represent them in this parliamentary period, also toward my prolongation, the New Democracy, which I have been serving from my disciples' years and personal to Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who chose me as one of the fifty people, to represent them in all of Greece, which marks the renewal for which he is committed to the Greek people. The Prime Minister gave me the opportunity for the first time to claim the MEP's post in a very short, very difficult election period, through a very valuable list, which he himself was in charge of. I'm grateful. I assure my fellow citizens, all of them without exception, that I will do my utmost to meet their expectations, which I hope to overcome. I take the floor today, because the bill we are discussing comes to my immediate interests as a citizen, a professional and a politician. First of all, I'm interested in the experience I have in local government. Before 7 July, I had claimed the vote of my fellow citizens once again in the 2006 county elections, then elected first county counsellor on the New Democracy party. Since my four-year term of office, therefore, at the Achaea Prefecture Council, and also from my participation in the common before and during the term of office, I have been well aware of the need for stable majorities and the malfunctions caused by forced compromises between incompatible factions. How will local government operate in the next few years, when in 70% of the mayors do not have a majority in municipal councils? Could a Prime Minister rule by a minority in the House? Apparently, no. In a similar state of government, the municipalities are led by the irresponsible experiments of the previous government, which the New Democracy is correcting today. But let me also highlight some important regulations relating to other ministries, beyond the internal market. I welcome, among other things, the provisions relating to privacy legislation, such as the definition of a Personal Data Protection Officer, in accordance with European provisions. It is an area which is also of interest to us, which I have seen during the election period and which you, ladies and gentlemen, have certainly seen. Personally, during my election campaign, I had entrusted to an accredited legal group the application of personal data law, but there were cases where even the experts were having difficulty in reaching what is actually foreseen. So we need to look at this more carefully, ladies and gentlemen, as we owe our fellow citizens and voters. I also find the regulation of the bill on reducing the interest rate on debts to the insurance funds from five to three percentage points, first of all, because this reduction facilitates the integration of more enterprises and individuals, as well as the repayment of the entire amount due and secondly, because it is one of the many initiatives taken by our Government to eliminate heavy taxation, which we experienced in the most painful way all professionals and workers in the last four years, especially those in the private sector. Because if taxes and contributions are not drastically reduced, if the public waste is not limited, if the State does not stop behaving as an enemy to the business, growth and advancement, they will not come, as will the investments that will give life to the multitude national economy. That is why I hope that a new era has actually begun for our country on 7 July. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Indicative of this new era are the provisions of the bill concerning the use of information and communication technologies. From e-government to encouraging the creation of new startups, we need to jump in the coming years. If we succeed - and we succeed - we will have spectacular results in improving the daily lives of citizens, in their income and in reversing the leakage of high-trained workers abroad, in the notorious Brain Drain. It is not just theory or wishfulness of all this, ladies and gentlemen. As we know, all technology is a lever for economic development throughout the world and of course in our geographical neighbourhood, in the Eastern Mediterranean. It is something we know well in the Achaea Prefecture with the University of Patras, with the research centres that we have and the private companies that are leading. I speak regularly with our fellow citizens who are involved in such projects. I intend to devote an important part of my parliamentary activity to promoting the technological nature of investment in Achaea and throughout Greece, of course along with the major projects and the other issues that concern our prefecture. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is based on the philosophy of common sense, on harmonisation with the reality and, of course, on hard work, without which success comes. That's the philosophy of the New Democracy. This is the truth contract of Mr. Mitsotakis. For all these reasons, I propose to the House that this bill be voted on. To conclude this first speech, I wish us a good mandate for all of us in favour of the citizens, who have given us the mandate to serve our country and society for the last four years, without always having to remember our ideological or party payments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u523	Mr Dionysios has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u524	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of this parliamentary term, I wish from the heart good luck to the work of the government and a lively parliamentary period. I would also like, in turn, to thank the fellow citizens of Zakynthos for the honour they made me elect a representative in the Greek Parliament, saying attributes that thirty years later the seat is coming to New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, the obligation of the legislative section is to serve the citizens and to provide immediate solutions to the problems that are emerging, to understand the signs of the times, to the demands of every time, to be realistic and to provide solutions, without ideologies, without hunger, without restrictions which are an obstacle and prevent the desired results from being achieved. This bill with its provisions comes to give solutions to issues that have admittedly arisen. I will mainly stand by two of them as they have monopolized the public debate and the economy of time. One is about the functioning of self-government. It is a common finding that in a rough and hasty way of legislating the simple analogy in the regions and municipalities has led to a dead end. The lack of decision-making in the regions and municipalities is more obvious because of unsecured self-reliability. There were people of local government at the committee meeting, I mean, not bodies. And I wonder how it is possible to say things just to make a sterile opposition knowing that if there is no change in the law, we are sending local government to the tartars. People who have dealt with local government know and ask how it is possible to vote on a budget? Is there anyone here who has or knows how to have a budget voted on in some municipality of Greece? The City of Barcelona has been mentioned. Is there a municipality in Greece? How can a technical programme be passed? Because for my day, no budget has been passed and no technical programme has been passed by any party. And if you think that at the moment in Zakynthos, for example, because of the electoral law we have nine different combinations, you realize that in order for the mayor to be able to make a majority, he must cooperate with at least four of the other eight combinations. Don't look at why it happened. Will someone ask, why did this legislation happen from the previous government and how many problems it creates in local government? Do not seek to find any complex or complex answer. It's simple. Then the rulers knew that their acceptance in the local communities was exculpated. So they sacrificed the first and second degree selfgovernment in order to have even a councillor on municipal and regional councils. Simple as that. The question arises: Would the evil that existed in self-government be solved by applying the simple analogue? Was it all settled in local government? Was the funding guaranteed? Were there any checks carried out? Were they? Has there been a abolition of bureaucracy so that it can perform its role as a key pillar in supporting the infrastructure and daily life of the citizen? In this impasse, the government comes with its initiatives and gives solutions to the possibility of involving municipal and regional authorities, including the mayor's or regional authority's faction and a number of other issues, which I will not mention because of the time-consuming economy, because I also want to deal with the second issue that is publicised, which is the asylum issue. I have already talked about the need to be realistic political, to disguise the needs of the time and to give solutions. I would add that the legislative framework in question is judged by the result. Times have changed considerably. Today democracy is solid. Today there is no fear of democracy being destroyed or of banning the free movement of ideas. But what changed today? What has changed today is the kind, style and cruelty of the violence pursued, but also its growth, because of the elasticity to date, of the anti-violence policy being pursued. In the days of the previous government violence has increased, with marginal groups being baptized activists. Houses, workplaces, universities are not safe. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Crime has increased and been consolidated by ideoscopy, leaving all marginal groups and bahalakis to destroy property and threaten lives uncontrolled. Asylum used to be protected from the community itself. Today, both with the excitement and with the cruelty of crime, this cannot happen. The situation in educational institutions today is devastating. Areas of protection of academic freedom in research and teaching have been transformed into areas of protection of illegitimate actions and behaviour within them. Instead of the educational institutions being attributed to students, teachers and administrative staff, where they belong, they have become a refuge for offenders who are criminals. As Mr Paulakis said this morning, the speaker defended with all his powers university asylum during his students' years, not '92, but in '87, because I was not a student in 1991. But seeing the institutions as a refuge for marginal, criminal and drug dealers is a requirement for times and society to change course. Society is already mature and aware, as this intervention has been a distinct sign of the political reason for our election, which has been put into the opinion of the people and which has been adopted and now the people are calling for solutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u525	Come on, Mr. Abby.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u526	I will end in a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u527	Not in a minute. To a lesser extent, Mr. Comrade. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u528	In twenty seconds, Mr. President. Neither free movement of ideas nor academic freedom are at risk of exercising the powers of the authorities and of intervening them in the event of criminal offences being committed within the area of academic freedom. On the other hand, the upgrading of the quality of the academic environment, which is ensured by the removal of the state of lawlessness and terror, creates all the necessary conditions and conditions for the more qualitative, more substantial and more productive performance of the academic role and work. Let a brake finally enter into the undermining and degradation of our educational institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u529	Mr. George Frangidis has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u530	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we very much wanted to believe that with the change of government the scene would also change in relation to how to legislate, the practices used by the SYRIZA - ANEL government would evolve. Unfortunately, however, our expectations have been disproved. The advanced multi-thematic bill with the 'urgent', with the three days of consultation, with the debate on seventy-four of seven articles, confirms it. It consists of many provisions, which one might describe as "tricks, bricks and horns irritated". Of course, it also aims at various arrangements. Ladies and gentlemen, with "CLINEN I", SYRIZA tried to create in self-government what it did not have, the party infrastructure. You now, on the pretext of governance, are trying to overthrow the results of the self-government elections. You are creating an oligarchal system of prestige administration of municipalities and regions, contrary to the will of local society and, of course, touching the limits of unconstitutionalism. How moral is it in our democracy that valid votes are held out for the sake of obtaining majority voting on municipal committees? The current law of the SYRIZA government created a question of cybercy in municipalities and regions. That's for sure. Something needs to be done about this. Your arrangements, however, do not guarantee it. Who will prevent a municipal councillor from being different from leaving and from being independent or becoming independent? Why would a mayor prefer the partnership of his own party to another, since individual municipal councillors can be employed? How will the municipalities to which there will be no concessions be governed? They're questions that surely want answers. The proposed partnerships, however, are without programming convergences approved by the municipal or regional council, and that is why they are meaningless. They also leave room for suspicion for their use as trading tools and agreements, with the sole purpose of power. Sectors and major changes, ladies and gentlemen, do not result from fragmentary legislation. A redistribution of the responsibilities of the institutions of self-government is required by law and not by artificial majorities, with doubtful results. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Looking at the spasmous legislative moves of the former rulings and yours, I can only emphasise that our prolongation, the PASOK, has undoubtedly left historical reforms in self-government. In this effort, we were alone. We have lifted the burden of modernising local government alone and we are proud of the results. But I also come to the issue of university asylum, which is of historical and symbolic importance. Its purpose was defined by the PASOK Government's framework law in 1982 and is to guarantee academic freedom, free scientific search and free movement of ideas. The aim is, against state power, to prohibit arbitrary interventions in university spaces, but also against individuals who invade the aim of committing or preventing university research and teaching. Moreover, the concept of asylum was the result of State power intervention in universities in dark past periods. Today, there are problems of violence and of lawlessness in the IOAs, and this must certainly be addressed. Furthermore, as has been said before by our President, we, with the first two paragraphs of the article, agree. Our disagreement relates to the wording of the third paragraph, which is unclear and is at risk of misinterpretation, not to say a more correct interpretation, as appropriate. It is not guaranteed and we will not go from one end to another, and we will not have police domination in the premises of AEIs or preventive action of competent authorities. So we insist on our proposal, on what our President said, and I think it needs to be accepted, because otherwise you do not understand that your proposal can be used by the executive in a distorted way. Or do you want to satisfy even your most conservative audience?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u531	Please conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u532	Finally, I want to say a few words about tourism that I am responsible for. We are not dealing with the proposals negatively. But I would like to point out a few things. Firstly, for the authorisation of tourist ports, the recommendation for the location or modification of the location of tourist port facilities must be made by an Interministerial Committee and not by the Central Management Board for the Development of the Property. On the basis of the location, I would like to stress the lack of local spatial planning projects, which are extremely necessary for development and investment policy and activity. This is why the municipalities are responsible and a formula must be found that binds them to carry out them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u533	All right, Mr. Comrade, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u534	I'm done, Mr. President. For the EOT, the members of the Governing Board should be appointed by the institutions and offices abroad, they should be merged with the diplomatic mission services, ensuring optimal results of the country’s visibility and advertising while drastically reducing the huge operating costs. In the assumption that tourism is a flagship of the Greek economy, we should consider its structure and the issues that govern it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u535	Mr Filippos's speech is on New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u536	Mr President, Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill contains explicit provisions on islands. The main interventions are identified in ensuring the smooth operation of grades A and B. These changes relate to all the problems facing the new authorities. So the struggle to solve the problems of our islands is continuous and uninterrupted. From the early days of new governance, the response to the demands of our islands is immediate, but also effective, thus responding to SYRIZA colleagues, who often judge and speak about a deterioration of the term "insularity". So let's go see some of the issues that concern our islands in the new Multifibre Arrangement. There are provisions on the governance of municipalities, but also regions. It shall allow two parts to come together with a joint decision. One should be the dominant, i.e. the mayor. The new party will act as a single party and is deemed to be the party elected by the mayor or regional mayor, in order to enable the collective bodies to be formed while maintaining their autonomy. The majority of the members of the Committee of Economic and Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Quality of Life will be from the prolongation of the respective municipal authority. They will have increased responsibilities in relation to the current status quo to dismantle the municipal council. So the mayor and the district mayor will be able to implement their own programme for which they were elected by the citizens. It therefore solves the question of the cybernicality of the municipalities in six municipalities of the Prefecture of Cyclades, in the Municipality of Andros, in the Municipality of Thira, in the Municipality of Milos, in the Municipality of Mykonos, in the Municipality of Naxos and in the Municipality of Serifos. So let's go to another issue in the bill at issue. In this representative of the citizen and business in municipalities and the Cyclades Prefecture. The new bill in Article 7 fully restores the institution of "consistent, public and company", which has been stopped and abolished by the SYRIZA - ANEL government with "KLITHEN". "Symposium", therefore, is also elected to the island municipalities. So our islands will now have another support institution for the citizens. The representative is elected not by the difficult 2/3 majority of all members of the municipal council but by the 3/5 members present. So more municipalities will manage to elect this institution. It is now expressly stated that the various complaints may be lodged not only by natural persons and undertakings, but also by legal persons, which was not provided for in the preceding provision. It is now explicitly laid down that the services of the municipality are required to provide all possible assistance to the ‘consistent’. It is now explicitly laid down that the ‘consistent’ has access to the municipality’s archive. It is now explicitly stated that the 'consistent', if it finds maladministration, is making recommendations to prevent them. The concern for the restoration and updating of the institution is therefore due to the uneasy work of the Deputy Minister Theodoros Lebanon, who has been a strong supporter of the institution since 2012. All municipalities, but also regions which meet the criteria, but most importantly island municipalities, acquire a 'consistent'. Therefore, our islands will now have another support institution for the citizens. There is also a position of Secretary-General for the municipalities and the Cyclades Prefecture, irrespective of the population criteria. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like your tolerance, Mr President. Finally, it is also recommended in the case of the Cyclades Law and the Dodecanese Regional Policy Coordinator of the South Aegean. From this step I would like to thank the Ministry's leadership, which has not only committed itself, but has also legislated on all the amendments and changes that we have proposed in cooperation with self-government of the Cyclades Prefecture. Let's go to the disputed article 64 on asylum. To be completed today one month after the elections of 7 July 2019. Today's Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis on April 12, speaking at an event in KEFIM, pointed out, among other things,: "The unbaptised ones end." I am presenting the relevant publication from the newspaper 'KATHMERINI' in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Philippos Load, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Yes, gentlemen of SYRIZA. The abats are over. So we do nothing less and nothing more than what we committed ourselves to doing. I mean, what? Strengthen and restore asylum in its own real sense. We will do this by limiting criminal offences committed either within or outside the universities and the perpetrators have refuge within the universities.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u537	Mr. Loading, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u538	So with all this we want to protect the academic community as a whole, students, teachers and staff in order to express themselves freely. There is no free movement of ideas until such crimes are punished. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u539	Mr. Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u540	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the limited time, I will briefly address two issues covered by this bill, on the subject of changes to 'CLINEN I' and on the issue of the abolition of university asylum. In order to justify the proposed arrangements of the Ministry of Interior for the changes to 'CLIMEN I', the New Democracy put the false dilemma 'governance or democracy'. Today, through the Minister of Interior, this false dilemma was transformed into another false dilemma, "governance or dismantling of local government bodies". It's the first and second phony. The government's response to the new version of the false dilemma, on the basis of these regulations, is lacking in democracy and respect for the results of the recent self-government elections. It should be stressed that the relevant arrangements of the bill are introduced for discussion after regional and municipal elections are held and before the new self-government authorities take office, so that there is no possibility of demonstrating the non-governmentality of the regions and municipalities. The self-government elections took place on the basis of a particular electoral system, the mere analogous. The electoral system forms concrete connections, which cannot be violently altered after the elections, as is done with the relevant arrangements of the bill. This is an intervention which, by abolishing the election result, annuls, abolishes the popular will, much more so when the connections and persons elected are known. The rules of the bill circumvent the principle of equality of vote, are not respected and the popular will is annulled, as expressed in the self-government elections, in which no individuals have been involved, but groups with specific programmes. These arrangements are granted by means of anti-constitutional means to the majority of the mayor's candidates in the second round and elected mayor of a non-constitutional majority. I'll make a few remarks about the local councils. It is essential to place a specific candidate on the position of the chairman of the local council, despising the fresh mandate of the electorate. Every decision taken by local councils is abolished by decorating them into decorative bodies, binding on the mayor's decisions, despite the fact that for the first time the councils have emerged with separate ballots, even though they have direct democratic legitimacy. Mostly, local councils have the only decisive power to decide and manage resources that concern the daily lives of citizens, so that local communities are deprived of this possibility and are dependent on the will of the municipal authority. The removal of the only decisive competence from local communities, I would say, proves ignorance of what is happening, especially in the Greek countryside, about the problems and needs of the Greek region. And now I come to university asylum. The University of Asylum, ladies and gentlemen, is an academic institution, and according to high-profile scientists and the dean of Greek constitutionalists, Aristovoulo Manesi, this results from the constitutionally established self-government of higher education institutions. University asylum is linked to the struggles for 'bread - education - freedom', i.e. democracy, rights, life itself. It is inherent to the Greek public university and its abolition raises a question of democracy. The New Democracy and Conservative circles more widely refer to the public university over time as a man of lawlessness and infraction, defaming the work of the academic community, teachers and students. This defamation is part of the wider design of the New Democracy to promote strong private interests in the field of education and its full privatization. Academic freedom and academic peace are guaranteed under university asylum. At the same time, the rules for dealing with illegality within university spaces are also laid down, of course, with the association of university authorities. What, then, is the arrangements of the current draft law for the assimilation of the OHIM area with the common public space and for the abolition of university asylum? The explanation is that the abolition of it on the one hand is a sign of ideological reference for the conservative audience of the New Democracy - law and order - and, on the other hand, prepares the ground for conflicts with the student movement and the academic community. In this context, the majority benches have also heard voices about preventive actions to deal with illegality. I wonder if they're implying the installation of security forces in university spaces. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that the final state bill that was passed yesterday by the government majority and the current bill are part of the New Democracy policy, a policy of promoting strong economic interests. This policy needs to be supported by the male authority of Prime Minister Mrs Mitsotakis and the repressive mechanisms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u541	We will give the floor for six minutes to the State Secretary for the Interior, Mr. Livano.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u542	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, to begin with, I was impressed by what Mr Papachristopoulos said, that municipalities are a field of corruption. We'll see. Whether there's corruption in the municipalities or in the town of the municipalities...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u543	Rakinji said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u544	Yes, I'm just saying that in the room Mr. Papachristopoulos said so. I'm not sure it was because the mayor had the majority. As far as I know, no city council ever met to get a town permit. Whether or not we should find and agree together on control mechanisms with which both the hands and the mayors and the regionals will be loose, but at the same time, public money will be guaranteed, is something that will be a very important step. And by the way, I firmly believe that e-government - we have discussed it - is the best way out to reduce corruption, by electronicising as many procedures as possible. We start with the fact that in the bill there is a very important section that is the interconnection of AMKA with the civic register. A very important task, which has proceeded with the previous government, and we must recognise that, but it will be the driving force to move to as many electronic services as possible. And what do we mean by electronic services? Do not need the citizen to get a certificate issued by the state to take it to another public service. I saw for the day before that it was necessary to award pensions a birth certificate, a death certificate, certificates of guarantees of relatives, identity certificates. Whatever other certificate there is, which can now be readily available to the body electronically and compile the information it wants. So, not only will the citizen not go to the various services running to collect the cards, but at the same time also transparency there will be more accountability. Two things about self-government. We talked about non-governmentality and I mainly heard the voice of the Officerial Response, which says: 'Hey, we didn't see it, why are we going to change it?' Apart from treatment, too many times more important is prevention. It is more obvious that with the specific provisions and responsibilities, as they existed in "KLITHENI", the ultimate chaos would be created in many municipalities. And because I see in the background and Mr Vernardakis, it is a very interesting debate if the political system is influenced by the electoral system in force or backwards. In other words, if we did not have a simple analogue, there would be so many combinations that almost tried to get through a small part of the voters as well as a significant part of the municipality's governance. I have heard that we are abolishing popular legitimacy, abolishing municipal councils, altering their role. The opposite is true of the substance. Municipal councils are being upgraded. They will be discussed on the basis of specific programmes, with specific methods, making concrete counter-proposals and not enough of a dry 'no'. And we need to be very careful, because the municipalities supported the country during the ten years of the crisis and took up a burden which did not account for them, particularly in the large cities. Nor should everything be levelled, nor should criticism be made easy from a distance. For the local communities, the decisive powers that existed as defined by the 'CLISTEN' would be very limited. Neither decentralisation were they serving neither the revival of the province. What does he really need? Directly regulate the levels of governance. To share responsibilities and see local communities as small local cells that can manage small things. The decisive competence, which is said to have been re-examined, has been shown to have become a suggestion, can also be discussed for the amount of EUR 1 000 or 2 000 per year in an average community. Will the community be upgraded if the president of the community says that the alpha project will be worth 2,000 or 3,000 euros? And I'll tell you something else. I heard a moment ago that we were nominated by the President. President will be the one who took most of the votes in the combination that took most of the votes. Where's the mistake? Where is the antidemocratic in this? After all, we remember in previous years, when the communities existed before the Kappastiri, that is what we used to call the president. This will be done and this is completely transitional. Two words, closing, for the Citizen's Resident. I am trying to understand why an institution that was really close to the citizen, with whatever failures he had, abolished or changed, if you like, horizontally with 'CLITHEN' at a regional level. I imagine the Attica correspondent, who would be a little bit like a citizen's mini-law. On the substance, what we want is the Citizen's Responsibility to be close to the citizen in each municipality. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Just a minute, Mr President, and I'll be done. Thank you. The provisions are reintroduced and not only are reintroduced, but its role is strengthened. It is now up to self-government if it defines the right ones, whether it chooses the right ones and whether they serve the role they have been elected, away from transactions and from various bazaars. The Citizen's Supporter will have a specific role. He will serve and detect maladministration problems. And honestly I'm talking to you, when we were with Mr. Kamin - here he is - in the Municipality of Athens, there were times when problems were solved for the sake of the Representant of Democrats, and we found problems that often reached the municipal authority. We are taking a step, the state should come and closer to the citizen. That's the final target. Immediately a great dialogue will begin with both self-government and the times of self-government and with citizens and, of course, with civil servants, to see how we share the responsibilities of a government - a region. Should we set a quantitative target if you want? A large proportion of the decisive responsibilities of the Hellenic Republic are now in self-government, either the primary for what is of local interest or the secondary for what is of regional interest. We must give the resources, give the tools, but also give the elected Members the responsibility to move forward. And that is something that is planned very soon. Thank you very much. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u545	Good. Mr Constantine Maraveyas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u546	Mr President, one question to the Minister. He referred to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u547	Please, no questions. Come on, Mr. Maraveya.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u548	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as this is my first speech from the Step of the National Representation, I would like to begin by wishing everyone a good term and thanking my fellow citizens who honoured me with their vote. I would also like, as a young person and new entrant in politics to express a hope, that the message sent by my special homeland, Magnesia, but also by the whole country in the last elections to renew the civilian staff will not only remain there. I want to believe that all the younger people we enter into politics in the mood to change things will actually bring something new, that we will not be left in a picture different from that on the surface. Because saying that he brings the young man into politics doesn't mean he does it. We have seen this, ladies and gentlemen, with SYRIZA in the past four and a half years, a party that took power by giving a large number of radical promises to bring about a commitment to the most old-fashioned practices. We must therefore, beyond the lines and words, go in some time and, in fact, see what each one of us really takes, and whether it is new or not. So I have listened with caution in the last few days to SYRIZA’s objections to the first bills submitted by our government, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. I would remind you that these are flagrant initiatives that reduce taxes and debts to the public, unblock the municipalities from the insolence to which they would lead by applying the simple analogue, create an organised governance centre, simplify pension issues and - perhaps most importantly - bring drugs to the homes of the heavyly ill patients. So what did SYRIZA have to say about all this? I've heard from new colleagues what a man could ever imagine. I heard criticism of criticism and mostly wooden words. I have heard until we are not healthy, because we encourage our Chief in applauding him every time he runs the elections in the New Democracy. I heard they were bills that one even finds in a supermarket. I have heard that even the creation of a so-called private state is being denounced. I have heard the former Prime Minister himself, who has become Prime Minister as the new in politics, say here in plenary that the Greek government's policy is - supposedly - a scandal in favour of the investor. And all this, unfortunately in the air, without any evidence, without any documentation. Not a single card was lodged by SYRIZA colleagues to support all these claims. And it's easy to see why. For mostly are words without content, furious opposition screams reminiscent of something by SYRIZA in 2012. Nothing new, just old-fashioned denomination. To return to my original position, the new policy is not necessarily the same as new policies and their implementation. It was in this case for an old product packed with another wrapping. Fortunately, even after four and a half years, the Greek people understood this and sent SYRIZA to the opposition on 7 July. However, unfortunately, you don't seem to have received the message. You've stayed in the old days and you're still getting mixed up. What, after all, can be invoked by baptizing the abolition of an anachronistic institution as a denial of academic freedom? But there is even older. It is SYRIZA's refusal to control this lawlessness regime, the civil and non-controlling situation within higher education institutions. And all of this - supposedly - in the name of an unobstructed movement of ideas. However, it is precisely the freedom that is usually violated by overriding circles every day in our country's universities. I remind you, just a few years ago, the world-famous Nobel Prize Watson who discovered the DNA was attacked at the University of Patras when he came to give a lecture. And your companions who did this misery finally escaped, thanks to the application of university asylum. It is the same asylum that now creates within universities a climate of fear, the climate of fear that Mr Varoufakis described earlier, both in teachers and in students living in an area of diffuse crime. SYRIZA, however, continues to defend the unobstructed trafficking of ideas. What ideas? Do the traffickers and drug traffickers have any ideas? Do the gangs of robbers and the members of Ruvikon have any ideas? The New Democracy determinedly clears out in all directions something very simple. There can be no asylum for criminals anywhere and anywhere in the country. That is what we are doing with Article 64. We protect the integrity of all of us in our universities, this public property for which we have all paid and paid. And we did not pay it to break it, which was accompanied by partners from the left - and not only, but also by extremes - components. To use it for teachers and students we pay it in order to produce knowledge for the benefit of the Greek people. Mr President, I would just like to close up in a few words on Article 74, which deals with medicines for severely ill people. As a doctor I am aware of the desperate situation faced by our patients fellow human beings and I can only congratulate the head of the Ministry of Health who brought this provision to the House as a matter of urgency, because the suffering of the cancer patient, who has to stand in the tail of the EEA in order to take the medicines of chemotherapy, cannot be easily measured. We who, thank God, still have our health we cannot get into place and experience the tragic situation that is coming to fix this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u549	Finish, Mr. Maraveya.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u550	I just want to say that this measure is yes, it starts with cancer patients and patients with multiple sclerosis, but it will soon - and quite rightly so - be extended to the direct distribution of medicines to most heavyly ill groups. It is another measure of the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, which in practice shows what Mr Varoufakis said earlier, what values are with the first bills that this government seems to have. Not as a theatrical line, then, or a communiqué, but as a new policy for many, with solidarity for all, because 40% of the voters supported by our party are not only those to whom we are addressing. We all speak to all Greeks whether or not they voted. We work for all citizens, without class glasses and separations to enemies and friends. We leave behind clientele policies of the past and we implement the new that we promised.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u551	Mr. Maraveya, please! Tolerance, but when? How much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u552	We look only ahead and support the government in its efforts, the effort that will remain to the next governments and the next generations. Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u553	You have already stolen one and a half minutes from the next Members who may not speak. What else can I say?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u554	Mr President, I apologise.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u555	Mr Lazaros Tsavdaridis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u556	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this interministerial bill concludes a trilogy of urgent legislative intervention by the new government only one month after the elections of 7 July. After the reduction of HPAI, the tax rules for the hundreds of twenty doses and the draft law for the final state today we are discussing key rules on asylum in universities, the cybernicality of local government, the digital version of pensions and the distribution of medicines to the heavy suffering, the interventions of the highest importance and the substance for the Greek society by a government that has been ready for us for a long time and not to work to restore common sense to the point of politics and the normality of the service of society. And it is an alpine impression that Mr. Tsipras and SYRIZA's desperate attempt to invent opposition speech of sterile criticism, engraved by cries of style "I will be here every day to make life difficult for you". Mr. Tsipras, I wish you were here every day. That is the essence of democracy, and that is what we want you to be in the New Democracy, be here every day, and take the role that the Greek people have given you to exercise. It's not a threat, Mr. Tsipras, to be here. It is your right to be here for the benefit of society that you have been ignoring for four years. Today, Mr Tsipras, Greek society employs the deep areas that need to take place for the country to go to the new era. A number of aspects of this titanium project are being discussed today in this bill. The dominance of all is the legitimisation of the pre-election commitment of Mr.Mitsotakis to abolish university asylum, an asylum that today works in reverse of the aims for which it was established. From the guardian of free movement of ideas at universities it has now come to be a protector of unlawful acts, with foundations being hostages of the balokes and the illegals themselves. An asylum which, instead of protecting freedom of expression, allows for the rise of violence, trafficking in human beings and, above all, the trafficking in drugs by the universities. The New Democracy will restore common sense. No more distortion, work and the conversion of asylum into an asylum law. Universities, ladies and gentlemen, belong to our children, knowledge and research. They don't belong to molotovs, addictive substances, stalks. A second key regulation concerns the lifting of the obstacles to government power, which the previous SYRIZA government itself itself is causing by the law of the mere analogy it has voted on. Because of the many local authorities they do not have a majority in municipal and regional councils, the risk of paralysis being visible in view of the official taking up of their duties in September. According to the changes that are coming, the possibility of involving municipal and regional authorities, including the mayor or regional party, is established. The majority of the mayor and the regional director in the Committee on Economic Affairs and all the legal persons of local government I and II are guaranteed. Mr. Tsipras, the area of self-government is not an experimentation area of your ideological obsession. It's the space that requires composition, but not chaos. It requires serious dialogue and not parallel monologues from minorities who have the only goal of reacting, sterile refusal and not producing a project. The third key point of the interministerial bill is the digital transformation of the public. This practically means ending the endless tails in guises, which, in addition to unbelievable irritation and waste of time, lack 3% of GDP from the economy and the state. The state is now changing to serve the citizen. In the new environment which will be built with very binding timetables, hundreds of common bureaucratic procedures are simplified in the life of every citizen. Another key reform concerns the creation of a framework for the distribution of medicines to the severely ill, at last, because the tails of the shame of the severely ill, who until now have been forced to take their medicine from the pharmacy of the EEA, will be brought to an end. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not extend, due to a lack of time, to the analysis of the arrangements for reductions in debts in insurance funds for those who join the hundred and twenty instalments, as took place a few days earlier with tax. I simply note that this is a significant relief, and it concerns all debtors, about a million four hundred thousand. To conclude, I would like to point out that these interventions are not done for the eyes of the world, for the soul of the world, the heart of the world, for the everyday life of the world, for the present and future of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u557	Mr Constantopoulos Dimitrios has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u558	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, this draft law comes to the House in accordance with the urgency procedure, without any real consultation and without any debate on committees. This process, however, is not appropriate when top issues such as government governance, digital governance and university asylum are being legislated. Ladies and gentlemen, the current draft law seeks governance in local government through a mere proportional system which requires a culture of other partnerships, synergy and collectiveness. Ladies and gentlemen, in local government, synergies that presuppose a programming framework and convergence with specific objectives and commitments. If that is not the case, then we are talking about a furniture summit agreement for - what? - the prestige of power. Many of the findings are that these basic principles are not served by this draft law. - What? - simple arrangements relating in particular to the operation of local authorities rather than the culture of cooperation. That is why we have reservations and objections to the articles. After all, the deadlocks of "KILLEN" we as a Change Movement pointed them out in his conversation as a proprietor rather than as a diligent one. And unfortunately, they are not treated at their basis by this bill, which can only make arrangements and serve. I'm coming to digital governance. Ladies and gentlemen, the innovations of the PASOK governments with a view to transparency and the fight against bureaucracy are historically recorded. Remind the 2009-2011 reforms by the government of George Papandreou, "DIAGY", "OpenGov", e-prescription, e-building, National Public Contract System. Finally, we were and are either PASOK or Change Movement one step forward. Minister, with the arrangements you bring about, without taking into account their specific features, such as the transfer of the General Secretariat of Information Systems, the 'TAXIS', from the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Digital Policy, and even when the Ministry of Finance is responsible exclusively for tax revenue. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make two references. The first relates to the articles of the Ministry of Culture, where, according to Article 89, four decisions are revoked to proclaim the positions of artistic directors in particular at the National Theatre, the Greek Festival, the Hellenic Museum of Contemporary Art and the State Conservation of Thessaloniki. However, the withdrawal of a decision should also be accompanied by a new provision on the procedure to cover these positions. Here I would like an answer from Mrs Mendoni, the Minister. The second concerns the issue of university asylum. Reminding Mr.4009/2011, this law which has been widely accepted both within Parliament and outside and especially in the educational community. Basically, the essence of university asylum as a whole was ensured. That is why Article 3 of Law 4009/2011 should be reintroduced on asylum so that we can form a new broader consensus in the field of education. However, what the new provision should lay down is what was envisaged by Law 4009/2011 following Law 421268/1982 and Law 3549/2007- what? - where criminal offences are committed, common legislation should apply. Minister, in the wording you're proposing, there is a risk that the state-of-the-art police rule will take place within the campus. That is why we say no to police preventive action within university spaces, but we say yes to dealing with criminal offences within the university. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media we have experienced the redesign of the map of higher education in the last six months. In the case of the structures of western Greece, there was no convergence, no dialogue, no one - but nothing! - consultation. Neither the self-interest of universities has been taken into consideration nor has their self-interest been taken into account. We have renamed departments, spatial distributions, establishments of new schools, without planning, without any prospects, no expression of the IPP and with the U.S.O.S.A., and of course, without the consent of the operators. All this has led to a dead end to all the stakeholders. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, give me one more minute. We have decisions that are unfair to the university community, as well as the offer of the University of Patras to higher education. I have asked and now I ask you, Minister, to withdraw Article 65 on the abolition of the establishment of the School of Law and to launch a substantial dialogue on the redesign of the University Charter of Western Greece. I would remind you, moreover, that this is what all those involved asked for yesterday's positions. We have a duty to listen to them. Do the thing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u559	Mr Kotsiras Georgios from New Democracy has the floor. Mr. Buga, would you like to talk now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u560	Yes, as a parliamentary representative, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u561	Okay, we said two, three MPs talk to a colleague from SYRIZA. They speak all of New Democracy MPs. Are you insisting on talking now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u562	I didn't know. This understanding was made.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u563	You said no time, just the truth is that when the parliamentary representative asks for the floor, he gets drunk - so to speak - from the Bureau in a short time to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u564	If my colleagues insist, I will give my position.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u565	It is simply planned to speak three other colleagues from New Democracy, one from SYRIZA and to finish the SYRIZA MP you will speak as a parliamentarian.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u566	Mr President, the Members of the House must also speak. You need to see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u567	The Members of the Com mittee on Culture are much less on the list of speakers. They can't complain. It's one to three.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u568	We don't have to talk any more. These objections have been explained since this morning too many times. We don't need time now. Mr. Kotziras Georgios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u569	Mr President, thank you very much. I too would like to thank the citizens of Western Attica for the honour they have made me elected to this House. I'll do anything to honor their order. Ladies and gentlemen, the first three bills that came to plenary in this House are of particular importance and symbolic importance, but also in their essence, as they reflect the wish expressed by Kyriakos Mitsotakis for direct reform areas, which will give the state machine the breath and dynamism that our day demands. The bill to be discussed comes to facilitate and modernise the daily life of the citizen. In my opinion, there is a multitude of reform, which is a constant denominator of which is the benefit it gives the citizen, because at the end of the day politics is judged by the conditions it creates for the citizen and the improvement of his everyday life. In particular, the governance of TAAs is not a socially neutral provision. The aim is to facilitate citizens, simplify procedures, achieve substantial results, make decisions easier, form majorities, which at the end of the day lead to improved everyday life, to the efficient functioning of OTAs, and create the necessary basis for a beneficial policy for citizens in their everyday lives, away from meaningless classifications, micro-particular counterproductive counterproductive rivals and inappropriateness and ineffectiveness. Similarly, the digital transformation of the public, the acceleration of administrative transactions, the digital and faster issuing of pensions, the 'once only' provision, which goes through this provision, so that every citizen can once state his details and be able to have a smooth transaction with the public, the distribution of medicines to patients over time, all these provisions are not socially neutral, have a real social value, aim to improve the daily life of the citizen, the manager, the patient. They're coming to solve chronic public sector pathogens. Ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of asylum, Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Mitsotakis made a primary and topical commitment and we were given a mandate to move on to this provision, which aims to improve the daily life of the active citizen, as he acts in the academic area, namely, the professor, the administrative officer and the student who is studying at a public university. We are essentially restoring the real functioning of the asylum objective, namely the free movement of ideas, teaching, research, and indeed the free expression of speech. Unfortunately, today - and I wonder about this - there is no real freedom of movement of ideas in all the Greek universities or substantial scientific teaching free of charge, since there is often - densely a minority that operates on terms of majority and prevents real majorities from enjoying the purpose for which they are in the Greek university: academic freedom, the creation of an academic environment of normal and modern, so that ideas can actually be created. When the institution of university asylum was created there was indeed a need to protect the free speech from external forces. Today our democracy protects freedom of speech, but unfortunately those who oppose freedom of speech have shaped the status of authoritarianism and freedom at the Greek University and have imposed their immunity as an expression of the sovereignty of lawlessness and crime, namely, in essence, dear and dear colleagues, we have reached the point of protecting the opposite objective from the one for which the asylum was established. It is clear that the abolition of asylum in its current form will not automatically bring to the Greek universities the many problems they have. However, it is certain that it will form the basis and foundation for effective recreation, as well as liberate creative forces and give in to true academic expression in the field of the academic environment. Unfortunately, I have heard that they are defamation of what we say about the abolition of asylum law. Instead, we are trying to do universities extroversion and productively. We honor the Greek university at which the majority of us have studied. There is no defamation from the attempt to improve the conditions at the Greek university. On the contrary, defamation is that there are small minority groups that act as majorities and instead of a man producing academic speech, that universities become a man of violation. We want universities open and extroverted, which will produce academic work and genuine production of ideas. And I'm ending up with something I heard from Mr. Varoufakis. Mr. Varoufakis said that he had a moment before the Greek university when he received an aggressive visit from various outside university actors. And he did, he confessed to confronting them and dealing with them, and he did not get hurt that day. However, we cannot, ladies and gentlemen, legislate on the basis of the fate of Mr Varoufakis, because he did not have the same fate as Mr Syrigos who was beaten at the Greek university, nor did Mr Fortsakis have it because he tried to implement a specific policy at the time. The aim of the legislature is to protect generality and generality in this case is to restore common sense to the university and indeed, the purpose for which the asylum was then, the free expression within the Greek university. So this provision which I believe has been the subject of opposition policy, because it is a provision that will protect the Greek public university, deserve to be voted on by the greatest possible majority within Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u570	Mrs Zoe Rapti has the floor from New Democracy. Mrs Tsabika Iatridis will also be followed by New Democracy, then by Mr Zouraris from SYRIZA and then by the Parliamentary Representative of New Democracy Mr Buga. Here you go, Mrs. Rapt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u571	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Secretary-General, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the basic programme commitment of the Government of New Democracy is also a substantial improvement in public higher and higher education in our country. In this context, and with due regard for the reduced speaking time of each colleague, I will refer only to the introduction of Article 64 of the draft law'reinforcing the quality of the academic environment'. With this article, ladies and gentlemen, we are doing our pre-election commitment to the abolition of the institution of lawlessness which has so far been the case in universities, asylum which, by abuse of its concept and the reasons for which it had been established, had in practice made many of the places of education in unintentional crime, places of conduct of proper criminal offences, and, of course, nothing has contributed to the promotion of institutions, the student and academic community in terms of promoting knowledge. And it is true that the discussions on university asylum have been going back on post-collection, namely, in 1975, during this troubled period, when the minority expressed the view that academic freedom is essentially guaranteed and indeed only in conjunction with asylum. This view led to the resolution of Law 1268/1982 and was formally recognised as an asylum institution and placed police intervention under the approval of a three-member asylum committee with the participation of a student representative. The act, however, showed that the provisions laid down for the protection of freedom of research and of teaching, but also of university spaces, were in many cases void, since their officials and students not only managed to protect the promotion of academic knowledge, but also the physical integrity and intellectual property of students and teachers. I also remember, a young lawyer in 1995, the destruction of the premises of the Polytechnic, laboratory and logistics facilities, the doctoral work of students who lost hard work of many years from all kinds of outside university elements that were hidden under the student's veil, burning and pillaging for the day. What a reproach, indeed, for our democracy and also for its officials, these acts of violence against students, ten years later, in the same place as the dictatorship was shattered! Much later, with the Diamantopoulou Act, which we supported, it became a first and important, but imperfect step in the direction of institutionalising the automatic intervention of the police, but only for actions carried out within the premises of the HEI. Unfortunately, this effort was terminated by the previous government, as SYRIZA made the intervention of the public power by the Republican Council for committed defects, thereby intensifying the increase in the incidence of violence and infraction in the spaces inside and outside universities. Why is it well known that the illegal acts and behaviour that are provoked not only within, but also outside the premises of the EHS and the perpetrators are fleeing where else? Inside them, to avoid arrest, turning universities into visible but unprecedented refuge, and many people in the region into second-class citizens. And I wonder, because a lot of people have heard in this Chamber, this is the following: Asylum is a sanctuary of ideas or biscuits and evildoers? Is it an asylum to be beaten by my colleague Mr. Syrigou from a tramp to the Panteion University because he disagreed with their views and practices? Is it an asylum to prevent the project from being violently blocked and garbageed in the office of the Dean of the University of Athens, Mr. Fortsakis? So what does SYRIZA think of the university? Area of free research and teaching, or are there places where, as we have heard, irreversible ideas are carried on? Derogating in a time of democracy, colleagues? Who, by whom? Do you mean only those who disagree with your ideological approaches? Who is it to continue with this unacceptable situation? Ladies and gentlemen, the acts of raw physical and psychological violence, even in a disguised form, have nothing to do with academic work and cannot be protected or covered behind the asylum. It is therefore the abolition of the immunity of lawlessness a first symbolic, but absolutely essential step towards upgrading the public university. The proposed provision of all kinds of criminal offences will be subject to the immediate intervention of the public force. The Government of New Democracy will defend the freedom of academic research and teaching, the integrity and dignity of the members of the academic community, as well as the public property of the HEIs, which is paid daily by the honest Greek citizen. Our universities will again become an immediate asylum of ideas and not a violation of directed minorities. I therefore urge you to vote in favour of the provision in the direction of building a better university future for our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u572	Mrs. Chabika Iatridis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u573	Ladies and gentlemen, throughout the election period New Democracy, Kyriakos Mitsotakis and all the members of our delegation have addressed the Greek people with openness and clarity. We had said that the simple analogue imposed by SYRIZA on local government with "KLITHENI" will lead municipalities and regions to insolence. New Democracy has clearly told the Greek citizens that it would overturn it and that it would ensure the smooth functioning of local government. We had said that the situation in asylum-related universities could not be continued, and this issue would be dealt with on a legislative initiative immediately. We said that it was necessary to regulate more favourably for the hundred and twenty instalments to the insurance funds and to proceed with the payment of the outstanding pensions. We are doing so, in fact, at a reduced rate of 5% to 3%. We said we'd put an end to the tails of shame in the EPPY Pharmacies. With the bill we open the way to distribution of drugs to heavy hospitals at home, in the hospital or in the neighborhood pharmacies. We were committed to a number of issues, which we have been doing for the last two weeks here in the Greek Parliament plenary. No one can deny that what is provided for in this bill has been said precisely in this way and in an election. The opposition is obviously entitled to make its criticism. After all, that is the quintousity of democracy. However, we must not forget that on these issues the Greek people have clearly and self-evidently decided just a month ago. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill ensures the smooth functioning of the municipalities and regions of the country and in a way that ensures both representation on the basis of what the citizens voted on in the elections, and also governmentality. It is known that SYRIZA remembered the simple analogue when he realized that he had lost all the runnings he had in local communities, but also in society as a whole. So what he could not control decided to destroy it by simply proportional. I will not talk about the distortions that CLITHENIS has created, but I will say that accountability must also be ensured in democracy, which is why the mayor and the district manager must be allowed to implement his policy, which is why he is elected and accountable to the results of this policy. Furthermore, as may be the case with the application of simple proportional to the central political scene, it is not possible for parties or groups with a minimum of 2% or 3% to gain disproportionate power and in fact be able to manage or even blackmail the majority in many cases. So the arrangements of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Theodorakou, are not just moving in the right direction, but basically they guarantee the essence of democracy. In simple terms, the elected mayors and regional mayors must produce results for citizens and be judged of them. At this point I would also like to mention to the Minister personally and to point out that he has responded to our request under Article 5(16) for the 'ETEAPPOFYKA' of the urban non-profit company in our Dodecanese, which has offered maximum protection for the environment, civil protection and firefighting. I am particularly pleased that a solution has been found, because I had already made several speeches on 'MEPPOFYKA' before. It is a clear sign that the government is close to our islands, supports islands in practice and strengthens the initiatives of the islanders. Although, Minister, you have said that next bill will also address other issues of local government, I would like to present a memorandum in the Minutes of this House today, and if you can see it. This is the memorandum of the Association of Officials of the South Aegean Region of Dodecanese Regional Units. This memorandum calls for the reintroduction of a new form of flexible pre-contractual control for specific categories of costs of TAs, their legal persons and legal persons under public law. It is an issue that needs to be addressed, Minister. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Chabika Iatridis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr. President. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the other issue is asylum in our universities. I believe that each issue should be raised in its historical dimension. Fortunately in this country, despite its problems, freedom to formulate and move ideas and especially in universities has never been called into question. Since I was a student I never felt that I could not investigate what I wanted in my field. I never felt that I could not express my opinion. With the arrangements of the relevant Minister of State of Keramos it goes unequivocally: Universities are treated as the common public area, as regards the exercise of powers of the authorities and their interference with the conduct of criminal offences. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill has many arrangements, which come to meet the challenges of reality, which show that the Government of Mr.Mitsotakis and the New Democracy intend to honour our commitments, above all, to the Greek people in full. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u574	Mr. Zuraris has the floor from SYRIZA. Come on, Mr. Zurari.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u575	Mr. President, my respects. I will obviously speak as someone in the New Democracy's science, who appeared lyricous as Herod and pastas of course of the Ilze Coch speech and a large part of our colleagues here made us crazy. The truth is, it has already been said in the "Super Freedom" by Kolokotronis, because he said that "we were together eight - nine, my children, some cousins, something nieces, and along with my horse, we were ten insane". That's how we were here, the crazy ten. The lady wants science. He'll have it. For a century and a half it has begun, of course, by the "Iron the Tyrannic" of Xenophon, it has started from the "Nichomachia", so we are all asking ourselves, especially of the humanities of sciences, which is being devastated, which is based and how what we call the tyrannical personality, the authoritarian personality, "the unjust tyrannida" said by Thucydides or "the unjust dynasty", what is this dynamic, tyrannical, totalitarian personality, which has been formed in politics for three thousand years. Science has solved it now. I'm sorry. The Minister's away. My father's books have it all, her father and her grandfather mostly. On page 390 all three events of the generosity, namely Freud, psychoanalytical or psychological school and the human biometric school - my own - of recent years. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] So individual personality, i.e. Bolsonarou, Mitsotakis, Orban, all of you, and those of you who have a torque or trend towards the barbatilla, i.e. closed prisons, the abolition of asylum, Type III prisons, and fetch and finish and final shapes, which are, of course, military. For those of you who have a tendency, a torque, science has solved it. He suffers a blemish love your hormone. That's what science decided. Science, don't you? You have the science. So the homophyte, which is always mixed with Xenophon, suffers a love of pestilence, that is, you already have a tendency, a torque of naiveness or a sad inflammation, males and females together, those who have the torment. You don't all obviously have it on the right. But whoever you have it, you have a classic case of defiance of your love. Or to use the terminology of the three-memorandum of the Greek scholars along with Thucydides, that is General Macrygiannis, what is there when you have this tone, because you have undoubtedly a reduction in your love? What do you got? You're tired or tired. That's what you have. There are molds, lentils - Amphiaraus speaks of lentils, my father also speaks of lentils - nettles, seeds, etc., with which your degraded love will be able to regain whom? The presiding projection, so that you do not have a projection with the baton, that is, with this brutality, the violence with which this lady, by exercising incredible verbal violence, that is, symbolic sadistic demonstration, says "science has made us mad". Hello.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u576	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u577	You have him for a minute, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u578	Mr President, I have to take the floor to say something very simple to the Professor. I think that listening to his speech will then assess him as well that he is wronged by his presence and his words. But I just want to say one word: it is not violence to come a government and to implement what was clearly and unequivocally said in an election and put it in the Greek people' s judgement. It's not violent. It's a democracy. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u579	Thank you. Before moving on to Mr Buga, who is the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, we entered the final straight. Fatigue is evident to all of us. Respect your own fatigue first. Respect the colleagues who want to take the baptism. We'll stay until 1,00. From there on, ladies and gentlemen, as far as tomorrow's roll-call vote is concerned, it is about 15:30 to 16: 00' at noon. In any case, we will see how many colleagues on the list are missing after the end of today's sitting, with the aim of speaking as much as possible. We'll finalise this tomorrow. That's why I'm asking you to respect the time, not to be naughty. I don't think we have anything to break up. Just not stealing the time from the next one. We don't win anything if we steal time. Here, Mr. Buga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u580	Thank you, Mr President. I will not waste time answering the previous speaker. Those who listen to the debate can draw the conclusions from who is suffering and what is suffering. What I would like to say, however, in response to previous speakers, is this: it is attempting to reduce the government's effort and what is being done to be like the state's non-existence before the elections. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that within about one month we have reduced HUNGARY. We have legislated the hundred and twenty instalments to the funds and to the public. We have promoted investments. We've put an end to the tails of the EPPY's shame. We have a direct response to natural disasters and crises. The draft law now under discussion ensures the functioning of the OTAs, because the provisions of the Ministry of the Interior bill effectively deactivate a mine which the previous government had taken care of in the operation of local government bodies. SYRIZA, because he did not succeed in the years that he has been in power to gain serious power in the municipalities and regions, introduced with Law 4555/2018 the euphemistically unadulterated proportion. In practice, however, as the elections have shown, it has distorted and completely falsified the will of local societies. The law of SYRIZA led the local government agencies to rule. This irresponsible choice was committed not to allow it. With this bill, we implement our promise. The draft law encourages and mobilises partnerships between the exceptions, with the necessary involvement of the newly elected mayor or district ruler's party. In this way, a single majority is created, but the groups involved are not losing their self-interest. It facilitates the functioning of the elected bodies of selfgovernment and ensures a majority in the decisive bodies of the municipalities and regions. SYRIZA colleagues have discovered constitutional problems in the regulation of the bill. I would remind you - and this morning - that both the Supreme Special Court and the Council of State, in a series of their decisions, have decided that the legislator has a wide margin of discretion to assess the political and social conditions in question, so as to regulate how the local and regional authorities should be raised. Only one constitutional restriction exists: that the powers of local government should not be removed or impaired. So it is worth wondering, where is the issue of constitutionality raised by the anti-population side? Is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, for the local government to be run without ensuring the functioning of their decisive bodies, without any decision being taken? The Constitution calls for strong administrations to be created at local government agencies, through a strong electoral process, and this is the case with the draft law being discussed. Also, did the Qualified Opposition by its rapporteur, but also by her parliamentary representative, refer to a pretext dilemma: rulership or democracy? For us there is no such dilemma. It is, in fact, a false copy and we agree on that. But not because some have more democratic sensitivity than others, but because the governance of local government is a democracy. These concepts must be identified. Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, does not mean immorality, does not mean continuous consultation and negotiation, it means the possibility of a dynamic decision. This is the only way to ensure and guarantee the democratic demand for respect for the people's will, but also effective local self-government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u581	Should we abolish the elections?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u582	You don't have to, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u583	If it is, tell us!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u584	Just do with a system that can be run by municipalities and regions. I will now say a few words about asylum and Article 64 of the draft legislation. You know very well, ladies and gentlemen, that Article 16 of the Constitution guarantees academic freedom in research, teaching, free expression and movement of ideas and states that their development and promotion is an obligation of the state. Furthermore, Article 16 of the Constitution establishes the full self-government of higher education institutions and defines their legal nature as legal entities governed by public law under the supervision of the State. The provision of Article 64 of the draft law is fully in line with these provisions of the Constitution. But what's the order? It prohibits the abuse of the concept of academic freedom. We must finally all agree that the university is an area of safety, well-being and freedom. It is not and should not be an asylum and lawlessness. Failure to comply with the law or its selective application necessitates the very existence of the university, both as a higher education institution and as a place of free movement of ideas. This is what has happened many times in the past with blocking or interrupting teaching and work at universities due to the unlawful action of minority groups that arbitraryly occupy the spaces of the university. I am surprised to hear SYRIZA's colleagues say that they will not allow the application of Article 64. What do they mean by that? Will those who illegally embark within the university space, those who destroy public property, who humiliate teachers and students, who dare to disagree with views, or do they mean they will continue to ensure impunity to those who resort to university asylum in order to avoid the consequences of their illegal activities? University asylum is not established in the Constitution. It was established for the first time under Law 1268/1982 mainly for symbolism, since the then PASOK government would not respect academic freedom. But then the years following the institution became abundant. The need to protect the speech, art and freedom of expression within the university has never been found to date. On the contrary, it was completely abused. Ladies and gentlemen, higher education institutions define their own conditions of access and operation. The principle of full self-government of higher education institutions makes them legally sui generis public, which enjoys academic freedom. Their constitutionally regulated self-government does not, however, prohibit the provision of access restrictions, since these areas are not shared spaces. As has been pointed out by many speakers, I have to say that, in compliance with the principle of proportionality established in the Constitution, HSHs have the right to ensure, in their discretion, the conditions of entry, without any discrimination. The same constitutional authority, the principle of proportionality referred to in Article 25, shall also lay the limits of the intervention of the public force in the event of criminal offences, either within the institution or beyond, provided that the perpetrators seek refuge in university asylum. As you know, the principle of proportionality governs the action of the public administration and is enshrined in the provision of Article 25 of the Constitution, as well as in the provision of Article 28, but also in the European Convention on Human Rights. It is this principle that, in a democratic and favoured society, as well as in a coordinate state, imposes self-restriction of state repression over individual rights. In other words, the application of the law should not affect the concept of effective justice under three individual principles which govern it. Firstly, the principle of necessity, secondly, the principle of subsidiarity and, thirdly, its principle, in a close sense, proportionality. In other words, the benefit must be greater than the damage caused by the restriction of human rights. This, ladies and gentlemen, is our institutional response to those who believe or believe in doubts and reservations about how to apply the provisions and refer to so-called police rule at universities. Our democracy now has the legislative framework. It has the political will to implement it. But it also has institutional guarantees to avoid abuse. So let us stop looking at obsolete issues, de minimis issues, in my view, of importance. It is high time we dealt with the real problems and challenges of the 21st century in higher education, the promotion and dissemination of knowledge, support for research, new technologies. Questions such as the asylum we are discussing today have been solved from the 17th and 18th centuries in all academic and scientific pioneering countries, both of mainland Europe and of the United States of America. For us, for a free, modern and open university in every respect, even the one that supports the abolition of asylum, this battle has been won in society. These days, this battle will be won at the National Representation. I shall refer briefly to the provision of Article 101. It is worth wondering, ladies and gentlemen, why SYRIZA and Mr Tsipras want Mrs Thanou to keep her position at the Competition Authority. What are they afraid of? Because no one thinks they're giving the institutional battle. We heard the Civic Opposition to invoke Directive 1/2019, which recalls that it has not yet been incorporated into our national law. In accordance with the provisions of Article 4 of that directive, it is expressly laid down that Member States must ensure that persons taking decisions to the independent national competition authorities carry out their duties and exercise their powers independently of political and other external influences in their decisions. The provision of the draft legislation therefore meets and is fully in line with the spirit, but also with the letter of the directive. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. The Competition Committee is well-known to have a crucial and important role in our economy. Persons who are head of the authority must provide guarantees of an objective and impartial crisis in order to trust citizens' confidence in its decisions. The legislator must constantly ensure the objective judgement of the authority. When it is disturbed, it must intervene. This is a compelling reason in the public interest. Recent employment in the Prime Minister's Office, the choice of the President and in particular its reactions following its selection are obviously inconsistent and impair the citizens' confidence in the independence of the authority. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that in its government term the Civic Opposition has fallen into institutional slips. I will only remind you of three. Firstly, it was under the control of the Deputy Minister of Justice, namely direct governmental control, a series of audit services, such as the College of Public Administration Inspectors. The independent administrative authorities were enthusiastised overnight by the law to establish a self-determination of their members before their term of office expired. With late amendment, hidden in ratification of an international convention with Belarus, the competences of the National Broadcasting Council have been safeguarded by the Constitution. All of this is recent, ladies and gentlemen, to be the guardians of the Constitution today. Mr President, I'll be out in a minute. So we leave SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, hypocritically, to address his narrow party audience and claim that the bill before it brings destruction and end. In any case, the Greek society with a large majority has recently shown its willingness to overcome such behaviour and move forward with rapid steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u585	Thank you, too. Mr Economou has the floor from New Democracy. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u586	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this month, which is now being completed by the elections, I think the two are very clear. It is the direction of the government and that of counterpopulation. On the one hand, we have the speedy implementation of programmable announcements aimed at making a policy and responding to the challenges of the time, opening up streets for many and, on the other, we have a political reason that insists on giving tactics battles and looking backwards permanently. These two very distinct guidelines, I think, are also seen in the draft law under discussion. I am going to take this into account - for reasons of time limitation - with only two fields. First of all, what's going on in the section of government. The government comes under the law to face up to unprecedented distortions created by this ideological and philosopherous electoral law for the elections of self-government brought about by the SYRIZA government. It is a law that came despite the vertical reaction of the self-government institutions with a unique aim to create chaos conditions, so that SYRIZA succeeds in putting a strong foot on the country's self-government map. He didn't put his leg on, but the chaos remained. We are now seeing these distortions. But to know that the citizens voted for mayors, regional directors and consultants not to exhaust themselves into endless process of haggling to form opportunistic majorities in case they succeed and make decisions on the basis of exchanges at a time, but to address the essential issues of local societies. So the government's regulation, the changes that come, restores them exactly. They enable the elected authorities to command and be judged by their work and not by their superstitiousness in makabelian transactions. The second point, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, concerns Rule 64. Article 64 - which is seen by the government - in my personal view is what strengthens the protection of academic freedoms in the field of universities. And would anyone ask: is there such a need today in a country that is in the 45th year of its normal democratic life? Should these things not normally be unsolved and self-evident from the outset, much more when it is a constitutional check? Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, there is a need. It is necessary for our universities to claim space for teachers and their students in the global environment of innovation, applied research, association with the labour market, interuniversity programmes and not to be hostages of bullying by those who disperse processes, prejudices people, builds offices of teachers. It is necessary to consider where the institutional situation in the field of universities has today led to us in the universities. Because, ladies and gentlemen, no matter how much I searched newspapers and websites of any ideological colour, I was unable to find a single attempt to succumb to research, academic, scientific expression on the part of the coordinate state or on the part of any body in the Greek state. On the other hand, which one of us does not know even an attempt, even one case of illegal activities that their perpetrators have done unnecessarily within the Greek university and of course have been unpunished? In a survey of the University of Macedonia, only three hundred and fifty-eight such cases are recorded for the period 2011-2017. For the period 2011-2017 only! I'm filing the investigation into the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Economou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned survey, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, there is the need to make clear, without half-a-half questions, to three very important questions. Is it normal in the field of Greek universities to occupy places like this, some organisations like the "Rubicon", without having authorized them by any university body, without having legalised them with any student movement? Is it normal in spaces, as was the case in the Gine building at the Polytechnic, that there are ammunition or molotov manufacturing workshops? Is that normal? Is it in the context of democracy and academic freedom? And I heard something else. Some say that for whatever problems within the university space the orderly state does not need to intervene, it will solve the Roman student movement. Really? In other words, what we say to young children who are going through the university and who, despite the fact of the economic crisis, are bleeding, insisting apart from their classes - and, in my opinion, - on the field of ideas, student unionism and the productions. We're telling them that besides the pan-Hellenic exams, they should also take martial arts lessons? Are we telling them to look like those of whom they want to be protected? Let's be serious! The only basic need - and I think that Article 64 is moving in this direction - is to decide that, in the field of universities, the law of democracy must also be enforced by the gangs. That's the point. In conclusion, with one comment to the government. The laws are passed to apply and I have the feeling that reflexes of the state after the law has been passed may be quickly tested in this field. So our government must, in my opinion, do two things. Firstly, to insist on the ideological and political battle of the need for this piece of legislation that we are voting on and secondly, to prepare wisely, without excesses and extremes, but with determination the draft of support for the law that we are voting on today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u587	Thank you, too, for respecting the time. Mr Rusopoulos has the floor from New Democracy, followed by Mrs Agerinopoulou. Mr. Russopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u588	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall refer to three issues. The first is simply proportional. Who does not remember what has happened for decades in Italy with the implementation of mere analogous when governments had a life of about ten months on average? Of course, Italy has changed this after almost half a century and so it now gives the majority of 55% of the seats, irrespective of their percentage. Let's bring it back to local government. It was wrong to hear that simple analogue to local government is dominated throughout Europe. A survey and study study, published on the Internet, shows that there are many different and different systems in different countries in Europe. The President of the party has heard that in Spain, for example, there is a simple analogue. In Spain, in different cases, according to the population of communities or cities there are three systems. And simple and reinforced and something in between. In any case, we've been indicted - we've been indicted! - some colleagues from SYRIZA for anti-Europeanism. In any case, I urge them to read the Treaty on European Union, Article 5, which is the principle of subsidiarity. This says that decisions should be aimed at ensuring that they are taken as close as possible to the people as possible and one might wonder if decisions can be made on municipal councils with simple proportional effect as SYRIZA brought it and whether it is in favour or against the citizen. Secondly, the incompatibility of President, Vice-President and member of the Competition Committee. Many speakers have referred to the parties' leaders, the Prime Minister, on the subject of Mrs Thanos. About two hours ago, it was published in the 'FINANCIAL TIMES' - I urge you to read it - a text which refers essentially to the life and state of Mrs Thanos. Be careful, the report signs a journalist, who has not been given to any Greek government from whatever party he comes from! “FINANCIAL TIMES” invoke judicial sources that say Ms Thanos actively promoted the SYRIZA agenda in order to make targeted checks on political opponents for alleged involvement in scandals. The political impartiality sought by the Government does not affect, on the contrary, strengthens the independence of the independent authorities vis-à-vis the executive. In this sense - and this is a personal assessment - I think that in future the government should consider extending welfare to the constitutionally regulated authorities. We know that there are five constitutionally regulated principles. It's the RIS, it's the OPCW, the Communications Security Authority, the Citizens' Counselor, the ASEP. The Constitution itself requires these authorities to be independent, since it is unauthorized for the members who make up these authorities to have nursed at political offices of members of the government, since it could be suspicious that they were placed there in return for benefits and even expectation of future benefits. Third theme, the asylum. I remember in one of the last meetings I had with the immemorial Giannis Moralis, one of the greatest painters of this place, in a restaurant in Lykavitto, the bitterness with which he described the destruction of works of art, including his own works of art, not only of great economic but also of cultural value, when about thirty years ago the Prefecture was burned at the Metsovio Polytechnic University. In many foreign universities, ladies and gentlemen, manuscripts, historical relics and works of enormous value are available. Many of these universities also work as museums, museums of knowledge and science. This, unfortunately, cannot happen in Greece because of the asylum regime as it has become. In the same way, lawlessness makes it extremely difficult to invest in technological equipment. A small personal example. In 2005 the Ministry, which was once the Ministry of Press and whose honour I was to lead as Minister of State, was transferred to a new building next to the Panteion University. Then I recall that it was assisted by the General Secretariats of Communications and Information, on my own initiative, by the competent teachers, but also by the Onassis Foundation, to build a new department, which had all the technological infrastructure for students studying communication and media. We built this department away from Panteion, somewhere in Plaka, because we were afraid that the people who are known will destroy it, who enter the universities and destroy the property without respecting any Greek citizen. Freedom of speech, which is systematically devastated by the domination of partial will in general will, that is, contrary to what Enlightenment taught us, cannot continue. Mitterrand, ladies and gentlemen, said that politics is being conducted at symbolic and symbolic level. The symbol of our democracy is the nationalism in which the cross and the laurels exist. These laurels, which were won with struggles and blood very much, are laurels for which many generations fought, including, of course, the generation of the Polytechnic. The laurels of democracy defended the generation of the Polytechnics. These laurels defended rather than molotovs. So these students defended freedom and not violence. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, we made a mistake in the election. We have talked about the abolition of asylum, and the regulation we are bringing is to strengthen the real asylum, strengthen the true freedom of the academic community, strengthen research, strengthen freedom of movement and strengthen freedom of speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u589	Thank you, too. If we keep going, we'll do good, because think that behind here there are also employees who leave this morning. Mrs Avgerinopoulou has the floor from New Democracy for five whole minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u590	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am taking the floor now of pointing out of the burning issues that, in fact, our Parliament is currently employing, an important institution for our country, which is being redefined through this bill and which will contribute to the development of our country, to the exploitation of human resources, and to the achievement of rapid scientific and technological development, the establishment of the Hellenic Space Centre, which is not one of the points of the bill, which, within other flaming issues, must be borne in mind. Our country's systematic involvement with space policy, even at Parliament's level, was consolidated at the beginning of 2013, when we hosted the head of law of the European Space Agency at the Special Standing Committee on the Environment of the Parliament, as well as the representatives of all relevant bodies of the research community and industry. We wanted to think about interconnecting the application of new satellite technologies and protecting the natural environment and dealing with climate change, including preventing and dealing with natural disasters, but also exploring, at that time, the ways of better institutional interconnection and cooperation between Greece and the European Space Agency. And I say 'before', because in 2013 it was in the understanding of some who were too early to deal with technologies alone by us from all the rest of the world. These gentlemen were unable to understand the importance of the project. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has, in fact, been convicted. But we didn't humiliate ourselves. In cooperation with the European Space Agency and after consulting members of the academic and the general research community, we began to form Greece's space strategy with the Government. We participated in international scientific conferences and at European level parliamentary meetings, and was organised in 2014, with our own invitation, in Athens and within the framework of the Greek Presidency of the European Space Agency. Thus, with knowledge, patience and perseverance, the issues of research and the development of space technology went up to Greece above. This advance was found by the SYRIZA Government in 2015 and this work, among other things, was supported for - I would say - mainly communication policy and the establishment of the Greek Space Agency. First of all, I think it is important that he chose not to cancel our work, as the state must continue. And indeed, I recognise that some further cooperation has taken place in recent years, mainly in the form of memorandums between the Hellenic Space Organisation and agencies from foreign countries and companies. It has also been presented for funding. But important mistakes and omissions have been made by the SYRIZA Government in this area. The most important thing is that the initiatives by the ELDE were not based on any structured space strategy. They were fragmented, without any strategic plan, without the setting of priorities. The country did not complete the drafting of the strategy until now, which we had started. The space strategy is necessary both to identify the areas in which we could develop actions and to establish priorities and objectives, and, of course, to implement them. For example, I mention the related productive sectors, but also the country's safety sectors related to space technologies. It is the area of defence, telecommunications, agriculture, fisheries, transport, in particular maritime and air transport, e-government, trade, education, the protection of the natural and cultural environment, the treatment of climate change and the prevention and response of natural disasters. The previous government has not worked in any of these areas in relation to space technologies. It could, for example, have prioritised the exploitation of space applications which would shield our country from natural disasters. It is a high security issue to protect against natural disasters. The development of these technologies can make a decisive contribution to this objective. Another important element that the SYRIZA government has not exploited is the high profitability of investments in space technologies. It is estimated that the return on investment for each euro invested in space technologies can reach around 8 euros of return. There is also a special regime between the Member States of the European Union and the European Space Agency, according to which every euro that countries give to the European Space Agency is returned to them at the same value in programmes back in the country. This is the so-called geo-return. How much money did you invest in this four-year period? How many programs have you implemented? How much money has been returned to us back? The figures are low. And in this area we have lost so many years in our development as a country. These objectives will therefore be supported by the Hellenic Space Center that we are establishing under Article 60 today. With a view to supporting young people, researchers who will work at the Centre and with a model of international prestige Greek scientists who are located abroad and who will now have a remarkable government space to return and offer to our country, I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of Article 60 of the bill and to launch a new era for research and development in Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u591	Thank you, too. Mrs Eleftheriadou from SYRIZA has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u592	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, KLITHENIS is the most democratic framework for self-government which has existed so far and unfortunately the only framework for self-government which is not only judged, but is altered and effectively abolished by the Greek Parliament before it is even tested in practice. I do not understand how you decide that there are cyberprobability problems, since the law has not yet been implemented. Why can't you wait a month and less? The only logical explanation is to satisfy your own party interests, the interests of the blue municipalities and communities, and to the detriment of democracy. And no, you don't do what you said before the election. You do other things and I will prove it to you in the next example. President of the local council of communities with "KLITHENI" would either be the first or second of those who took most votes in the first two combinations. Now President is the first to vote on the first combination. So in Kavala, as in many other cases, we have the Polystylos community, composed of Polystylo, Dato and Macrichori. There they put three combinations and took two seats the first combination, two seats the second and one seat the third. The difference in the crosses was three crosses and there were twenty void. What would we do if there were the law we were going to vote on today? We'd object to seeing if the difference between the three crosses could be canceled or a void. There, therefore, the candidate for the second combination, who had three votes different than the first combination, did not object, because the third combination would have voted for him and thus would have been the chairman of the local council. The deadline for the objection has passed, it was seven days. What are you going to do now, Minister? Will you again give a deadline immediately after the law has been passed so that the popular verdict can be acted or will you leave it? Isn't that unconstitutional to you, have the candidates and you then come and change the law? I think you should see it and make a legal addition to your bill. If you want, I'll give you all the evidence that it's exactly the way I say it. Let's go to Article 64. What the Minister said, forgetting that in the Revision of the 1985 Constitution the difference between the Right and the Left was not whether the asylum will be abolished, but whether it will be protected by constitutional or legislative law. She said, therefore, that her decision is based on Article 16 of the Constitution and Article 25 of the Constitution. Article 25 of the Constitution - which I did not understand why he mentioned it, we have no objection - states that human rights are guaranteed by the state. We're totally in agreement. But all the rights, not just the ones you choose. It also says that the state bodies are obliged to ensure this. We also fully agree that we never said no. It was mentioned in paragraph 1 of Article 16 of the Constitution, which ensures freedom of research and teaching. We're totally in agreement. I would remind you, however, that there are two other paragraphs, paragraph 4 - and I would like you to tell me if you agree - which says free education for all at all levels in state universities. Do you agree with that? There is also paragraph 5 which says that higher education is provided exclusively by institutions of the State, which are legal entities governed by public law with full self-government. I'd like to know if you agree with that. You are calling on some of the proposals that are in favour of abolishing asylum. I want to say this. Why don't these raids do their job? Why don't they do the work that Mr. Gavroglou's law has assigned them to do? Contrary to those who have been fighting, you do not care about the two-two-six teachers who are against the abolition of asylum. Also, was that the law so urgent that it would pass now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u593	When did he come in?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u594	I'll answer you. You keep saying in your speech: "We hear the students, we hear the teachers, we hear our children - and you tell us their names - to tell us what is going on in universities." Where do you hear them? Because in the summer I don't listen to anyone. Let the universities open up, consult and then we will really listen to them all and see their opinions. Why did you close the electronic consultation for two days? Why didn't you let comment on the electronic consultation? What are you afraid of? Also, to ask some questions. When referring to competent authorities what do you mean? When referring to criminal acts what do you mean? Is a legal occupation a criminal act? Because we fully agree with all the actions you mentioned in this House. Neither the "Rubic" can make conquests nor bombs throw into the universities. Also, what do you mean by a call? Who's gonna call you? The complicator? The neighbor? The one who's going through the university? And how would he judge whether the police should get inside the university? He'll probably invade any time he wants. As far as the Competition Committee is concerned, you should also take a picture of Mrs Thanos under the bill and then you would at least be honest. As far as the directive is concerned, it has not yet been incorporated, but it has consequences for the Greek state.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u595	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u596	Finally, because I want to sanctify, but you do not allow me, I have heard Mr Maraveya say that he has heard things say that your parliamentary group is not healthy. He did not say that he heard it from the Minister of State himself. He forgot that. I guess his hearing's selective. And I also heard Mr. Tsavdaridis say that Mr. Tsipras must be here. He will be here, not only because he is a parliamentary obligation, like Mr Mitsotakis, but mainly because we do not have media to do our job and we must do it ourselves, unlike you and Mr Mitsotakis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u597	Thank you, too. Mrs Notopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA and then Mr Kelles from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u598	Ladies and gentlemen, your decision yesterday to keep the Office of the Prime Minister of Thessaloniki is a definitive recognition of the value of an institution created by Alexis Tsipras. You have, of course, forgotten to include it in the establishment plan of the Prime Minister's General Secretariat. Do you think this is a sloppy thing or did you not bear the assumption of your hypocrisy? Because you said what you didn't say! Mr Gülekas and Mr Kalafatis spoke, even Mr Adonis Georgiadis, who came to say that five thousand retired people would not have lost the NAS if the Prime Minister's office were not established. And the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, had originally described it as a matter of communication and not a matter of substance. Then, as has been said, he said that all the degradation and abandonment of the city are mirrored in the useless for the citizen, but useful for party rushfets, Prime Minister's office in Thessaloniki. Mr Karaoglu in his last interview, a few days ago, said that with your government the Prime Minister expresses the State Secretary of Interior and they do not need party nurseries. It seems that you do not agree with each other, as yesterday Mr. Mitsotakis announced his maintenance. So what happened, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy? Lies and populism, populism and lies. These were your doctrines, your policy before and unfortunately afterward. I am not going to talk about what they have written, nor about mudology, because the best answer was given by the actors in the city and all Macedonia and Thrace, your own officials in self-government, the productive and logistical bodies. Fortunately, this popular demand has been respected, contrary to what you are trying to do today in local government. You are completely unaware of the recent result of the self-government elections. Before the simple analogy is applied, you have decided that it is not practicable and that you alter the popular will. Do you realize that you are attacking democratic institutions? You insult the Greek people who honored you. Any partnerships from now on will not be made on the basis of the correlations, as emerged from the recent elections, from the fresh popular mandate of the local elections, but on the basis of the wishes of the mayor or regional rule. And one example: In the Municipality of Thessaloniki, your resignation received 22.4%. So will you order Mr. Tachyao to co-operate with Mr. Zerva, who has left the mayor, recording the first Sunday 14.9%, canceling your resignation? Why, gentlemen of the New Democracy, would you do that? Do you think that Mr. Tachiaos or your advisers are irresponsible and could not contribute with proposals on their planning positions? Couldn't they, as part of the mere analogy, cooperate with the new management of the municipality on program shocks? Do you think the citizens who honoured you with their vote do not want a party anymore? You are abolishing, among other things, the decisive nature of the communities. This point shows just how much you fear of local self-government, shocks and democracy, precisely because that is where politics meets the needs of the daily lives of citizens and you could not have people who will simply serve your own decisions. It looks like you can't stand democracy. You insist on insulting democracy, common sense. You insist on insulting all those who supported you, provided that at local level you have a few, a centralised system with which to interact. A male authority, therefore, your final state, a male authority and local government. With regard to the three provisions you bring for tourism, first comment: Take back the provision for academic identity to students of ASEs. Suppose you hadn't secured the necessary funds. Second comment: The governments of the New Democracy and PASOK have systematically denounced tourism education. Our government with Mrs Kountoura and Mr Theocharopoulos in extremely difficult conditions of fiscal adjustment with limited resources has found the way and have relaunched these very educational retraining programmes, training for unemployed people and workers with enormous effort, titanic efforts. That is exactly what you bring as a safeguard - ensuring continuity. However, at the end and in the present article 107 on the adjustment of the EOT's establishment plan, with the return of new responsibilities to the new president and with the remuneration of those Secretary-General of a Ministry, for a post, ladies and gentlemen, which until now was unpaid. So let us talk a little more about party armies and a model of administration that operated so efficiently and so successfully that the EOT has seconded a series of international discrimination. The well-known concept is also evident here: the state is bad as long as it does not pay us, namely you. The over-concentration of responsibilities in the President of the EOT, the Secretary-General, leads to a depreciation of the board of directors, but also to a dismantling of the service actors, the managers. At the same time, however - and here is the crucial - we see how you are preparing the ground for cooperation with the private sector with regard to the national promotion and promotion of our country. We are not prepared to give up any intentions or desires. However, we know very well and what the New Democracy plan is and we remember the deterioration of the EOT as well. We also remember how you led to the availability of ninety-eight EOT officials protected by the SYRIZA government. We, therefore, who have supported the national body, the EOT, as a national body for the promotion and promotion of our country, will oppose any attempt to replace the work of the EOT by individuals and indeed by those who represent only a very specific part of tourism. We therefore ask for clarification from the Minister for Tourism. We therefore call for clarification in relation to the framework, the role the private sector will have in cooperating with the EOT. And what we ask at the end of the day is to finally open your papers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u599	Thank you, too. Mr Kelles has the floor from New Democracy and Mr Gülekas is being prepared from New Democracy. Here, Mr. Kelles, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u600	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the final state law has been passed, we are debating today the multi-legislative plan that shields the asylum ideas of universities and the governance of OTAs, and restructures digital governance and regulates a number of serious issues. I'm starting with the asylum. After many years the Greek government dares to restore freedom of speech and protect the academic expression of the strong but silent majority against the minorities who exercised psychological violence, providing consciously or unconsciously asylum to lawlessness. Very soon in voting for the bill, academic spaces cease to be indiscriminately indiscriminate and criminal and are attributed to students and teachers to whom they belong. The new teaching year will find the academic community free and secure to create and produce intactly. Our aim is for the country to emerge into an international educational centre and interconnect academic education and research with the labour market by strengthening growth. It is also noteworthy that the new school year will start with the best of the preconditions, after we have time to ensure that the appropriations for the payment of alternates, salaries and special and auxiliary educational staff are fully used by the Public Investment Programme. As far as self-government is concerned, we are preventing the chaos that would be followed by the implementation of Law 4555/2018 when the new selfgovernment takes office. The irrevocable partnerships between municipal and regional groups combined with the strengthening of economic committees promote democracy, governance and cooperation. In addition to the partnerships, majority rules for legal persons and decisive procedures on the budget of the technical and operational programme shall be established. Together with the general reconstruction of public administration, it is our Government that is practically implementing the pan-European objective of local governance that will be closer to the citizen, with the mayors and regional managers carrying out their work with greater efficiency. Furthermore, we had made a commitment in the election that we would complete the transition of the state to the digital era, broadening e-government with the 24-hour service of the citizen and development, and today we are doing this commitment. We are carrying out the integrated transition of public services to the digital age, ensuring the cross-sectoral functionality of public policies and the digital interconnection of public services and bodies, in order for the Greek state to become more competitive and to offer better services to its citizens. And I come to another issue that is particularly affecting doctors and diagnostic centers. As you know. In the last four years, a large number of examinations have been added to the EEAS. On the other hand, there has been no slight increase in the EEA budget. Articles 80 and 81 regulate the debts of marketing authorisation holders and providers to the EEAS from rebate and clawback. However, as I have pointed out in the committee, a way needs to be found to reduce clawback to such levels that at least ensure the viability of these free professionals. At the same time, the remaining articles of the bill concerning the Ministry of Health regulate important operational issues and are in the direction of achieving our objective of upgrading public health, which we will act accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen, our country is reborn day after day. We are at the beginning of a new light and optimistic course for the country, which is reflected in the restoration of our image abroad, but stems from the confidence of the Greek people and our political will. Our commitments are being made, and even earlier than we had promised in the run-up to the election. This is something unprecedented in the history of the country. If, ladies and gentlemen, you want to blame us for something, then blame us for words and works and also for our determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u601	Mr Gülekas has the floor from New Democracy and Mr Spanakis is being prepared from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u602	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I wish you success in your new duties. And I am pleased that a colleague in journalism also sees him as a colleague in the House and, indeed, President-in-Office of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u603	I'm honored.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u604	Before I refer to the bill, I would like to make a reference to what you said, Mrs Southpoulou, about the Prime Minister's office. You know, perhaps you can't understand that in the New Democracy, we do have the possibility of autonomy of our opinion and we can have a different opinion. This may not be the case in your party. In the new Republic we have the luxury of having our views and we are really pleased that a purely democratic party must be in place. So we in the New Democracy are really glad that we can keep our minds. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] As regards the bill, again to you, ladies and gentlemen, of major opposition, I would like to address it. Look, I do not want to talk about what is being said in this bill for a short time, but I would like to stay on two main points, on two lines. One is the modifications and arrangements made for Local Government I and II, and the other is university asylum. And I said that I would again like to address you, for what started in previous years, seeing what you have been trying to do as the government of the country, that is, to convince us that almost normality was yours. Except that you could not force them on Greek society and you were only trying to pass them by laws, which opposed too many Greeks, the majority of Greek citizens of course. If you're forgetting about it, let's remind you. To remind you that the entire educational community was contrary to the law of SYRIZA - I do not remember if it was Mr Gavroglou at that time at the Ministry of Education - with which you abolished excellence, because you were of the opinion that this should be the case, and you considered that to be normal. Let me remind you that the whole legal world was reacting to the Law of Friday, one of the first laws of your own government, with which you released tens of thousands of criminal offenders who were serving their sentences, because some of you and even terrorists from this Step called them folk fighters who had the right to choose the armed struggle. You were talking about it. Well, you know what it is? Conflict of ideas, conflict of ideologies. For us your opinions are ideological. But beyond that, what you were trying to do was pass and enforce your opinions by law. So you also enforced by law how local government agencies should be run in our home country. And while the JRC, the HRC and all relevant bodies told you that there would be a problem of governance in the municipalities, you, in your ideality, wanted to enforce this law. So today, what do we do? This distortion we are trying to correct. Why? Because quite simply, of the thirty-two municipalities, I think, Mr Secretary-General, the two hundred and thirty-one are municipalities to which the mayors do not have and the regional majority respectively. You know, consents are good, but they can't have forced character. Consents are not enforced by law, consents are inspired, and we can actually lead to opinions in the course of the debate. But never can this be done by law. We cannot say that according to the law you are obliged to cooperate. This is a strange view, an idea in my opinion, and that is why I say that we have a conflict of two different worlds, two different ideologies. As far as asylum is concerned, I will simply tell you this. Did you hear what the Bureau of the Committee of Governors said? Did you hear what the PACC Bureau said the other day with its announcement on 4 August? They all say they don't know, and you know? It's a very delicate matter. I have listened very carefully to your objections and your points on asylum, and I would say that there are indeed fears on your part that one might accept them and discuss them with one another that we could possibly lead to some arbitraryness. So this thing can be discussed, to see how it can be implemented. But what do you prefer, ladies and gentlemen? Let this lawlessness regime go on? Gavroglou Law and Government Law Mitsotakis. What did the Law Gabroglou say? When something happens inside the university asylum, call the Dean Council. In other words, when the drug dealer is inside, we will tell him "stoke, wait, convene the dean's council, discuss with the dean and the competent bodies whether we should call the police and if we decide to call the police, perhaps after hours or days, the drug dealer will be there, waiting with the hands for the police to pass the cuffs on them." [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We therefore prefer this asylum of lawlessness to abolish it. We prefer to return the universities to students, return the universities to teachers and from there on, find ways, if necessary, to intervene remedially to improve and upgrade the situation. But we prefer to abolish this asylum of lawlessness, precisely because we have seen where it has led up to now. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that with this bill we are continuing what we have done with both previous bills. We are showing precisely the consistency in what we have said in the election and what we have been using sincerely.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u605	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u606	Kyriakos Mitsotakis had made it clear and said it to all the tons, wherever found, that the asylum of lawlessness would be abolished and that the municipalities and regions in the country...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u607	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u608	Mr. Janakopoulos, do you mind what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u609	Finish, Mr. Giuleka.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u610	You've been talking for six and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u611	And what happened? Do you preside?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u612	No news.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u613	Mr. Giuleka, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u614	If you are presiding, if you would like to impose your opinion, please recommend to your Chief that he appoint you as President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u615	No news now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u616	...presiding to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u617	No news.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u618	No dialogue, please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u619	Otherwise, please, you won't interfere at the time they're talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u620	No news.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u621	You're not used to criticising.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u622	No news.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u623	It's okay. Now that you're in Antipopulation, you'll learn the criticism. Enough of your arrogance from the government benches. Now you will also receive criticism.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u624	You are ‘...’.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u625	Mr. Janakopoulos, we're not winning anything. Time's gone, he went to seven minutes. Please, no dialogue! It's not time. We're all tired.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u626	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u627	Here, you have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u628	My colleague, Mr. Squadron, called me what?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u629	‘...’.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u630	‘...’.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u631	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u632	You sit tight!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u633	Mr. Darkness, I'm not questioning...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u634	Come on, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u635	Please, let me answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u636	Mr. Wormhole, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u637	I asked for the floor on personal grounds. I did not question your contribution to art and culture. I do not question your contribution to political life. However, I do not allow you to question your political opponents in this way. It is a disgrace to speak like this about parliamentary practices. It's a disgrace to you! On the other hand, I would remind you that I do not have and do not hold any government office in the Mitsotakis Government. I am a Member of Parliament, as you are, but I am a Member of Parliament with a free conscience and I will say what I believe in the Greek Parliament. I did so and when I had to refuse to vote for the Memorandum to the Government of Samaras and they deleted me. I did so as many times as I had to go against my own party when I thought my views had to be heard and defended even if I were to take the cost.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u638	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u639	Wait a minute, Mr. Squirrel, before you take the floor. I'll give him to you, that's fine. However, what you have said should be deleted from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u640	I have no objections, Mr President. Delete, but I'll place it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u641	Good, it's over. You have thirty seconds at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u642	I have no words to say, nor can I interfere with why you do not have any power in the Mitsotakis Government. That's your business. I regard it as unfamiliar and undemocratic to confuse 40% of the Greek people who voted for you and with an alibi, to come and present the sight you presented. It's bad and undemocratic.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u643	Mr Vassilis Spanakis has the floor from New Democracy. You've got five minutes, and I hope it's cool.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u644	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing an inter-ministerial bill which brings in areas that bring changes, which is moving in the right direction towards real political change. You are aware, ladies and gentlemen, that in the run-up to the election we committed ourselves to implementing concrete proposals and the Greek people one month before trusting New Democracy and gave a strong people's mandate to Kyriakos Mitsotakis in order to bring real development to the country. To reduce taxes. To bring about real social justice. To put the word 'confidence' into our vocabulary. Rebuild the state with the citizen, a new relationship of genuine trust. To reduce bureaucracy. Bring security to our neighborhoods. To abolish asylum by applying a law that will put an end to lawlessness in the Greek universities. To upgrade - at last - public administration by making effective use of worthy public officials that the SYRIZA Government put on the stand to make use of its posted partners. To give back to Greek women and Greeks the lost dignity that has been denied and to come to our homes - finally - the smile. Ladies and gentlemen, we have an obligation towards the Greek people to bring reforms and bring them soon, at all levels and much more to the 1st and 2nd degrees of local government, i.e. in the operation of the municipalities and regions, the municipalities that have passed since the experiments of the Ragosi era have passed into the experiments of the SYRIZA government. It is now imperative, ladies and gentlemen, that we overturn a bad situation that you have created, a self-government that you wanted to bring into your own measures so that the municipalities could not run. Finally! Finally, this draft law merely reinforces, in practical terms, the administrative capacity of the municipalities and regions. The essential powers are transferred to the Economic Committee, which will now have the role it deserves for the proper functioning of both the municipalities and the regions. It solves issues relating to the vote on the technical and operational programme, their asset-raising plan, the definition of taxes, fees and contributions and the budget, in short, common sense is being put into operation of the municipalities and regions, while at the same time, there are articles that reduce bureaucracy and are aimed at simplifying procedures, such as the regulation of Article 16 which provides for the enrichment of the civil register by adding to the AMKA every citizen. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people want another state and we build it first with the confidence of the Greek people and secondly, through the real needs of everyday life. The functioning of the General Secretariat of Digital Governance and Simplification of Procedures will lead to Greece at another time that the citizen needs to stop afflicting, waiting in queues and feeling that the state is not friendly. It is good that Article 54 of the bill introduces the possibility for the Minister of Digital Governance to conclude programming contracts and memorandums of cooperation with educational institutions, with public sector bodies. This bill sets out arrangements for our schools and their proper functioning for the next school year. We upgrade the quality of the academic environment, since under Article 64 we safeguard and protect academic freedom in research and teaching. We're protecting university spaces. We give our universities academic freedom, freedom of expression. We're giving our universities to the teachers, the students, their staff. I am very pleased that this regulation is in line with the Greek public opinion and the academic and the student community. Article 64 ensures the real free expression of the student movement. Let us remember together that a university institution was forced to hold a student election three years ago in Zappeion and, of course, with the agreement of the PSP, while no student elections were held in this university institution over the last two years. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u645	Not for more than a minute, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u646	Remember what happened at the Polytechnic School of Civil Engineering? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to bring to your mind the image of Athens University of Economics, ASE. Do we deserve it? Is this picture worthwhile in one of Europe's leading economic universities? I want to submit to the Minutes what Miltiadis Evert wrote in his book "The World Coming" in 1997: "The role of Greece in the international environment". He said then: "Strict and developed in the future will not be the countries of great population potential, geographical importance and wealthy production, but the countries that give weight to education, research, science and information. The wealth of tomorrow will be synonymous with knowledge and investment today must be made primarily in human resources." [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilis - Peter Spanakis, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let me close by saying that this bill has a social sign, since it enables patients to take their medicines with dignity. This draft law picks up the Competition Committee under Article 101. I would like to ask SYRIZA's colleagues a question, and that is what I shall close, Mr President. Show me your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u647	Just thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u648	Mr. Polakis, Mr. Janakopoulos, have you not yet received the Greek society's message that the party state is in the past? But we know, ladies and gentlemen, that it will be a long time to realise that the left-hand side has closed. I therefore call on all the heads of the Chamber to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u649	Thank you, too. Mr Katrinis has the floor from the Movement of Change, and then Mr. Synthrakis from the Communist Party of Greece. Here you go, Mr. Catherine.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u650	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a bill today, which unfortunately does not serve any authority and any specific strategy. It is quite simply a stirring of provisions satisfying the context, the government's micro-party strategy and offering more impression than to produce real and substantial results and conclusions. In support of what I am saying, it is worth all Members to see the report on the impact of regulation which is, Minister, and poor and simple for such a flagrant bill, according to yours. But because today you've been closing a month and I don't want to spoil your "beard of honey" and appear miserable at the National Representation, I will begin with a positive provision of this bill. Working in the last few years next to the largest perhaps pharmacy of the EEAS on Alexandra Avenue and living the tails of the shame of thousands of insured people who have waited for hours with cardboards in difficult conditions to get their medicines, I think it is very right that the regulation introduced in Article 74 should have done something that I think the political system should have done for many years to restore the dignity of citizens and patients. I would like to stress three points in relation to the draft legislation under discussion. For the OTAs - our rapporteur has said so - your intention is clear. I think that your rapporteur has not been held up and said very simply that 'we are doing so in order to facilitate the majority of mayors who belong to our political area'. You change the result, you don't expect to see how "CLITHENIS" will actually work - a good bill - and then change it. At the same time as in the first article you say 'we want partnerships', in the next articles you are undermining them and effectively abolishing them. Of course, I wonder if in 2012, Mr. Minister, in June, when you remember that the New Democracy was the first party with 19%...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u651	May.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u652	May and June. If you voted for a provision at the time when you allowed 19% or 28%, which was not an absolute majority, to have control over the parliamentary committees here in Parliament, or to decide in plenary, or whether this was in the 2015 elections with SYRIZA to be a first party, but not to have an absolute majority in Parliament, would that be the same allowed and constitutionally legitimate as what you want to present today for self-government? So this is where things have to get into their right dimension. For the independent authorities, you have a explanatory statement which is analysed in detail - in fact, invoke the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Communities - the need for there to be no political influence on the independent authorities. You are setting up a series of incompatibilities that are in the right direction, but you will allow me to say that they are very strict. In other words, Minister, if you hire a university professor as a special partner for your cognitive subject, he is automatically excluded from being able to be a member of an independent authority, which does not have a political role, just advises you on his subject. And while you are introducing these strictly incomprehensible principles - which are correct in their general principle and philosophy - as by magic you are forgetting a high political value that is uncompromisingly uncompromising those who serve independently non-constitutionalally defined principles, which have not been elected by a majority of four fifths of this House, but by accident belong to your own party and of course I am speaking of the Consumer Counsellor. I'm done with the asylum. We were saying SYRIZA is counting on propaganda. I think that in recent years, and especially in the programme statements in the New Democracy, you have shown that there are even better ones. Your MPs two days in the House served in a crescendo - and even competed with each other - who will say more often that we are abolishing asylum, so that the Prime Minister will come on Monday night and say that we are reintroducing the provisions of Law No.4009/2011, the law of PASOK which had been passed by a large majority. What is the truth, ladies and gentlemen? That the provisions of SYRIZA entered and settled in the universities, "Ruvikon" and began to recruit the students. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] With the provisions proposed by the New Democracy, I fear that the police will enter universities for preventive reasons. So we suggested something else. We have proposed a provision that is essentially the reintroduction of the provision of Law No 4009/2011, of Article 3, which safeguards academic freedoms and the free movement of ideas which constitute the true concept of university asylum, which the Minister of Education itself and Members in today's plenary are changing a line and say that we do not abolish asylum, but we strengthen it and guard it in this way. We therefore want this to be done and it is the responsibility of politics, police and university authorities on how to safeguard the true academic freedom and freedom of movement of ideas. Now, Minister, responsibility goes to you to decide whether you will move as the PASOK and the Minister then, Mrs Diamantopoulou in 2001, seeking and obtaining a consensus and a majority above the fiveths of the House, or whether you will choose to pass with your only majority and Mr Velopoulos on allegedly ideological grounds a provision that poses risks of police occupation and with which we have disagreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u653	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u654	I shall conclude, Mr President. For many of us, the Change Movement, the student movement, the flag of the Polytechnic is of particular emotional value. I am sure, Minister, that for a number of members of the government who have recently chosen to serve the New Democracy's resignation by government-sponsored people, it has once - may have the same emotional value today. So the issue of asylum is that of the real movement of ideas - because that is asylum, it is not the immunity of the bahalakis and all those who are poor in the universities - it is not for micro-political impressions or for us to show strength, nor, of course, for us to impose other situations. It is our responsibility, it is the responsibility of consensus and understanding, to be able to achieve a different day and a different picture in the Greek universities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u655	Thank you, too. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece and then Mr. Arsenis from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u656	Thank you, Mr President. The Government of New Democracy in its first steps followed the dear tactics of previous governments, benefits without a substantial impact to blur water on the one hand and law and order on the other by abolishing university asylum by transferring powers of anti-criminal policy of refugees and immigrants to the Ministry of Public Order. The Minister of State yesterday at the Step in the Final State bill told us, following what Mr Mitsotakis had announced at the JRC and HNPE joint conference last year, that there will be a second bill on the further modernisation of the state with decentralisation and substantial self-sufficiency of local government with a reform plan. This is also the quintusia of SYRIZA's "KILLEN I" following PASOK's "KILLAKRAT". They reflect their willingness to shield the urban state with the main pillars of the municipalities and regions, that is to say, to set up a looted machine, as the Prime Minister said here yesterday in plenary, which will serve the competitiveness and profitability of monopolistic groups. The New Democracy, by means of provisions of the draft law, introduces even more reactionary arrangements to the functioning of municipal regional councils and their committees with the argument allegedly of insolence and paralysis, with the colloquent system introduced by the SYRIZA government. We are allegedly saying that, regardless of the electoral system, the financial control of local government, the balanced budgets and the economic observation centre remain suffocated and fully in line with the medium-term programme and the anti-purpose objectives of the central state, with cuts in state resources, entrepreneurship, the sale of municipal property, the commercialisation of social needs, education, health, welfare regardless of who is in the government or whose line the fact is dominated by municipalities and regions. Both seek - everyone on their behalf - to stand up and operate in municipalities and regions the urban diploma in municipal and regional councils under their rulership in order to ensure continuity of anti-population policy. This falsified fight between New Democracy and SYRIZA on the electoral system has been explained, because it is coming back again and again. Why is that? Their poorness is who will control the majority in municipal and regional councils, who will have the upper hand in implementing anti-grass policy to be more pleasurable, better handler of capital's pursuits. Now, of course, the upper hand has it as a government, it also has absolute supremacy in the municipalities and regions. She is primarily interested in collecting her own forces, these so-called independents who are scorpoises across Greece, and why, of course, not to support the Scorpian forces of the old social democracy of PASOK, which besieged them, and SYRIZA, at the same time, to dominate the area of social democracy and to safeguard the local administration that is lagging far behind the New Democracy. Secondly, it is of interest to form a new anti-grassian administration system with municipalities, autonomous financial units in the cost-benefit logic, with the main source of revenue from increased taxes and charges, in terms of business and modern management. The New Democracy, under the pretext of government in the municipalities, seeks to form polluting majorities in the municipal and regional councils with the co-ordination of the municipality's governance for the county with the battling of the elected mayor or regional authority as well as in the quality of life and economics committees, where the majority of their members will come from the combination of the mayor or the district mayor. It provides increased responsibilities, which is deducted from local regional councils, such as annual staff recruitment planning, debt and hiring, the facilitation of grand-incomes over EUR 150,000 in debts. Here, then, is why the fight between them is disorientative, far from the essence of the reactionary pursuits of "CLITHEN I" to make the municipalities more attractive to the investors. But hugging by no one for the retreat functions of the municipalities, constantly falling state funding, decouping the municipalities, auctioning and confiscations. The New Democracy, on the pretext of the principle of proportionality and the principle of arms compliance, as stated in the draft law, obliges the parties seeking to table a counter-proposal for a technical programme, budget, taxes and charges to have the agreement of the technical and economic services and provided that they do not derogate from what is required of the Ministry of the Interior and the anti-popular objectives. Of course, SYRIZA has the first responsibility for this development, and indeed hugely, which established these unacceptable conditions for discussion and decision-making and the very same procedure in the technical programme and in each code in the budget. So these tactics and tricks both New Democracy and SYRIZA prove to be manoeuvres. Of course, the New Democracy has learned something from SYRIZA. It really wants a doctorate of bilingualism and special abilities to baptize an anti-grassian structure in prologue. The JRC will in any case not give its consent to these projects. It rejects both the old and the new hardship of reactionary reforms. The JRC for the administrative and management structures has the foundation of social ownership in the concentrated means of production, the central design with incentives to satisfy people's needs. It is based on labour participation and control from the bottom up and is structured in workplaces, social services.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u657	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u658	I shall conclude, Mr President. A single, modern and free state health, welfare and education system is being formed. Development planning by industry and industry is ensured by exploiting the country's natural and productive wealth. With this line, the JRC will organise, claim and oppose government and local authorities that support the state of the few and the elite, the capitalist, of modernised Bosnia-Herzegovina. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u659	Thank you, too. Mr Arsenis has the floor from Mersey 25 and will be followed by Mr Chryssomalis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u660	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, I have been very sad these days by the procedures that we are seeing here in this House. It is not a question of you and your colleagues in the Bureau but of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Unfortunately, it is a regulation that has remained on the basis of unchanged, while the majority of Parliament have changed in recent years. I have the experience of the European Parliament and I have a supervisory image of parliamentaryism in parliaments of the European Union and other countries. When a bill is submitted to this parliament now it is the property of Members. They have the opportunity to change it, amend it, vote and vote in favour of it as a whole. In this House, neither the Members nor the parties have the opportunity to table an amendment to the vote by their colleagues, unless the Minister approves it if the government approves it. This is a global originality. It's a ministerial parliament. We are a government advisory body, a consultation body, where when he hears good ideas, the government can adopt them in its bills. Even now that the government has 158 Members and could easily vote in favour, vote against amendments, no amendments are put to the vote in our Parliament. It's like the governments don't trust their MPs. Is there a risk that they'll leave the party line? The European Parliament is elected in a simple analogue way and I can guarantee that it has no problem with governance, it has no problem in taking decisions. You can also be told by your MEPs. But what happens is that simple analogue leads you to have multi-party majorities. This very simply means that the Member of Parliament has power to formulate with his colleagues original majorities that go beyond party combinations. Personally, I have the experience of having managed to vote in favour of amendments to the environment by working with Members from the Right, from the Centre, from the Left, from the Left and the Economists. This would have been the case in the municipalities if KLITHENIS were to be applied in September. Every municipal counselor will have the power to make a difference. But it is true - and you have told us, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, the Government - that you want decisions to be taken from the bottom. You believe in the one - usually - male principle. What if the citizens voted on the simple analogue basis? In an insidious way, you turn municipal councils into a mayor's advisory body, transferring all powers to two committees, economic and quality of life, which are not made up of the mere proportional but on the basis of an irrational majority of the mayor. At the same time you are abolishing the democratic structure of the community. They will no longer be able to vote for their President. We do, yes, think that KILLENIS should be changed urgently, but in the opposite direction. Municipal advisers must be elected on a simple analogue basis, but then it must be this municipal council that will elect the mayor without a second round. We are voting against this bill in principle. And I want to refer to another issue that threatens lives. Despite the small earthquake on July 19, in Haidari ninety houses have been found unfit for dwelling. Twenty days after the earthquake only two thousand buildings have been controlled by the six thousand damaged. 10% has already been deeply problematic. Minister, I call on you to force the FAO to carry out these checks, because very simply people are at risk. We are talking about four thousand buildings that have not been checked and can be unfit for dwelling. Based on the data up to now, 10% was inappropriate. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Furthermore, the FEK for the financial support of citizens affected by natural disasters in May 2019 has very good predictions for the firemen in Matti.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u661	And it's normal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u662	Still, he doesn't talk about seismics at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u663	It's natural disasters too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u664	There is - and we are told by the technical services of the municipalities - a gap here. Look at it, because it's really estimated that six hundred families will need this backup. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u665	Thank you, too. Mr Chryssomalis from New Democracy has the floor now and Mr Dritsa must be prepared by SYRIZA. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u666	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I take this opportunity, first to thank my fellow citizens, the Messinians and the Messinians, who trusted me to represent them in the Greek Parliament and I promise to honour their trust. So, starting from my academic asylum and having a personal view of the dynamics of the Greek public university, since I have studied in this, both in my undergraduate studies and in my doctoral title, I can assure you that the provisions of Article 64, which are introduced to the vote, ensure the academic community in an absolute way that the right to free and unconditional production of ideas, teaching and research is fully guaranteed. Because academic asylum means teaching without invasions of boulevards, without threats and pre-contrasts of teachers, it means respecting academic function, without the destruction of public property paid by the Greek taxpayer. Unfortunately, nowadays, there is only asylum in the bazaars, the drug dealers and all sorts of violations. And no asylum in the free movement of ideas. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, if this asylum debate we are having here in the House and we are going to exchange views on it, we could go to any university institution in the country without bothering us, without bats, without molotovs, without stones, without all the good things we have lived through the Greek university. Obviously not. So leave the screams on unconstitutionality and get away from your ideas. You will thus offer a good service to the Greek public university that you so invoke. Subsequently, the arrangements for local government Is and II grades come to restore normality to the functioning of the OTAs and to address the authority that Mr Skourletis and the government of SYRIZA caused by the law 'CLISTEN'. Mr. Skourletis and Mr. Tsipras in Mao's saying "great turbulence, great state of affairs", without consulting, without taking into account the CEDEFOP and the EIA, voted for a simple, other than fraudulent proportions, indifferent to the chaos he would create. They have probably sought it, allegedly invoked the widest possible popular representation. But how is this achieved, for example, with the ten combinations on the Kalamata municipal council? How will the municipality be governed? How will the electorate's will be expressed when he cannot implement his programme? None of this was of interest to you. You were only interested in the "fucking" of local government in order to be able to benefit politically. But forget the most important thing: All mayors and regional leaders in the country have been elected more than 50%. They therefore have the democratic legitimacy to implement their programme and to be judged for it at the end of their term of office. This possibility provides them with this bill. Nor could I mention the key initiatives set out in Article 72 by reducing the interest rate on the regulated debts in insurance funds by two points, which means a major relief for thousands of our fellow citizens and, of course, the initiative referred to in Article 74 to distribute high-cost medicines to our fellow people who are suffering from serious illnesses. And this is a sign of social sensitivity, Mr Polakis, which you have not shown for these people.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u667	There's no that!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u668	There will be.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u669	There's no distribution at home.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u670	There will be, there will be.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u671	Another 'will' - I wish, they started it - and another that exists.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u672	Please, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u673	There isn't one here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u674	You'll see, there will be. And the above are two more election commitments by Mr Mitsotakis, who were implemented immediately, without delay. Finally, particularly important in order to ensure the ownership of citizens is the extension granted by Article 102 to 31/12-2020 to correct inaccurate first-time entries in the Register for areas declared to be in possession before August 2006, as is Kalamata. In conclusion, I could not fail to mention my fellow Prime Minister, Mr Antonis Samaras, of the case-file entered into the file on the NOVARTIS case. And I wonder, after two and a half years of targeting him and his constant slanders at all levels of the SYRIZA government and parliamentary group, with targeted government leaks and abolition of all presumptions of innocence, what a sign of political culture is on your part, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that you do not feel even now the need to ask for even a simple apologies! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u675	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u676	Mr President, may I clarify something?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u677	Here you go, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u678	Thank you first for giving me the floor. I want this, colleagues of the New Democracy. Because the colleague who has just spoken like others from you and yesterday in the committee repeats something which does not exist in the multi-branded, home-based distribution of medicines. I have asked the ministers yesterday to come with specific questions to answer some things. What does EOPY channel mean, from EOPY Pharmaceuticals to Private Pharmaceuticals? The other doesn't exist. Do not replicate. There's no in the law. There's been an announcement. There isn't one here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u679	Why does it take the floor, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u680	Because my colleague said that with the bill you're starting to distribute drugs at home. There's no such thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u681	Mr. Polakis, I gave you the floor for a minute. You are out of the question, and you also told me less than a minute. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u682	Why is he talking about, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u683	Please leave the dialogue. It's last hour. Please! Mr. Dritsas has the floor from SYRIZA and will be followed by Mr. Haritou, also by SYRIZA. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Polakis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u684	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u685	Good evening.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u686	To me at least there is no surprise that this government, the Government of New Democracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u687	Mr. Polakis, your colleague is speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u688	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u689	....................................................................................................................................................................... And there is no surprise in me, and I think in very many worlds, for those who have travelled the historic route of the struggles of Greek youth for decades, because this party, the Right, never, ever, never defended the asylum - the 'extended' now one to one who is parading from the Step - which was conquered by the struggles of Greek youth, students, university teachers, the democratic world in Greece, nor before the dictatorship. Then it was S.H.I.E.L.E.L.D. working with the Great Security. And, for there to be and continue - I will not say names - the offspring of NEO leaders are now leaders of the new shape of the New Democracy party mechanism. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] In any case, however, there is no family responsibility. But there is no period of Greek history that the Right defended the asylum. Why not remove it? Neither before the dictatorship ever defended the right nor the dictatorship defended it, nor in the post-government period did it defend it. Never! I was abstaining from defending university asylum. So it is very reasonable to give the tombstone to abolish it. Because university asylum is not an asylum of ideas. The ideas don't need asylum. They overcome all obstacles, and the idea comes to an end when it is authentic. There's no need for asylum. The university community required asylum to the right-wing state. This is the reality of Greek history. You don't know her? You do not know her, so you say 'the asylum of ideas' and others, not to describe them. Well, if you want to be serious, the debate will actually start after the vote. Because the university community - which also has its responsibilities for how long the asylum has been defended, not in whole, but in important parts and various neoliberal teachers - will now be forced to defend it. Because this immune system you're trying to open opens housekeepers and forms new data, not a hit on lawlessness. Because else is infringibility, crime and university asylum. And if you have been able to confuse them for two or three years now and create a confusion, that - allegedly - the university asylum is to blame for the violation of lawlessness and crime, where it occurs, in practice now of real life you will find yourself in the face. What are you gonna do? Will you send the MATs into the universities? What exactly are you going to do? From this point of view, history is now beginning again in relation to the democratic conquest of university asylum. I shall proceed, Mr President, to self-government. Are you serious? Do you have the right to legislate by changing, because this is your political view, an election result made on the basis of an institutional framework taken into account by candidates, groups, mayors, people, citizens and vote in this context? And you will change it, why do you assess that this is not right before it is implemented? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And from where and until where is the simple analogue and the 'CLISTEN I' law only the self-worth of mere analogy, which we must all defend and as much as we can broaden it up? That's not all. It aims at upgrading the municipal councils 'CLITHEN I', which in fact are spent, as we all know, in a two-hour, three-hour, every time on a pre-dated agenda discussion, which is taking place in the fights and then 'approved, approved, adopted', within a half an hour, sixty topics have been voted on. This was the bankruptcy of the municipal council institution. And "CLOSHEN I" comes to give him substance with the partnerships, with the agreement, with the insurance bottlenecks, for the budget and for the technical programme, that anyone who does not vote must bear a costly counter-proposal. All of this is pioneering.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u690	With deals under the table?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u691	Don't interrupt me. Self-government is participatory. There is no country in Europe that does not promote the budget in most municipalities. In Greece of late, dependent self-government, it was, of course, difficult to implement, even though we have claimed it for years now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u692	Finish, Mr. Dritsa, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u693	Participation, therefore, is the core that represents the role of self-government and not the superpowers of the mayor, rulership. What do you say to self-government government, without public participation, without democratic openness? But careers you do in self-government, as you do everywhere. Of course, the career system does not fit into participatoryness, does not have social control, does not fit democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u694	Mr. Dritsa, with all due respect, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u695	I shall conclude, Mr President. I come to the matter of the Competition Committee. Mr. Rusopulus is gone. I do not know what reports FINANCIAL TIMES made about Mrs Thanos. It is, however, very short in time that Mrs Thanos has entered into the suffering of the rude, irresistible, the behavior of the officials of the New Democracy and one of the then Movement of Change. There was a lot of aggression against her. She was interrogated for everything. Read the minutes of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. With absolute cooling he defended the inconsistency of the thirty-five years of the course in justice. I don't know her. She has a way of defending herself on her own. He doesn't need my defence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u696	Mr. Drizza, you're embarrassing me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u697	There, however, he overthrew all these ruthless gentlemen, the journalists, the first-class members of your party, with dignity and coolness, when he called on them to tell her once and for all that she had no unprecedented behavior in her historic path. And what happened? He became the Prime Minister's advisor. Al Capone became an advisor? Is the Prime Minister's counsel party?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u698	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u699	The Prime Minister of Greece, Mr. Colleague, is an institution and has a legal counsel. You're so confused in party blindness?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u700	Other measures and other weightings!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u701	Mr. Dritsa, please finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u702	That's how messed up you're finally?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u703	Mr. Drizza, with all due respect, finish. Respect the time, fatigue and colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u704	This is the state of the right. You have him in your DNA the authoritarianism. The State of Right will not allow it to reborn and pass.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u705	Mr. Drizza, you've spoken twice a year. We've got a few good ones left. It's time last night. We're all tired. Please think very much about the fact that there are the Members of this House who will leave this morning, like colleagues who will not be able to speak tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u706	And we're leaving this morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u707	As the matter goes, Mr. Polakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u708	You gave Mr. Dritsa a bonus. Is that fair for everyone else? I did not understand that, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u709	It's not fair. I begged him. What was I supposed to do? Should I turn off his mic?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u710	I don't know. That's why you're there to settle the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u711	That's what I should do. Let me let you know that we're in number 56 on the list and we're gonna go around number 69, Mr. Marcus of SYRIZA. Mr Haritou from SYRIZA now has the floor and then Mr Manolakos from New Democracy. Here, Mr. Haritou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u712	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will confine myself to the regulations on self-government. I have listened to you, Minister, a moment ago in your speech to speak of prevention arrangements. Until today, I've heard of photographic settings. I've heard of clipboard settings. Legislative regulations for the first time I hear. I would suggest to you - think about it - and regulation of divination - I stress it! And you know why I'm saying it? Legislate and change the quinteenness of a piece of legislation that has not even been tested in practice. You're thinking of something that you're anticipating will cause problems. It is not institutional, but anti-institutional intervention, which undermines the concept of state continuity. You are talking about democratic regulation, and this is an anti-democratic approach. We are told about 'we have a majority, so we do what we want'. Only you have forgotten that there is a Constitution, that there are constitutional principles which, through your arrangements, are blatantly violating it. You have forgotten something very important. Elections took place in self-government, bringing concrete results. And what exactly are you going to do with these arrangements? You misguid the people's will, not to say you're racing it rawly. But, ladies and gentlemen, it was expressed, and the existing institutional framework for the operation of self-government was also known, with simple proportionality. But it seems that concepts like consensus, compositions, your program shocks are unknown, not to say hostile. Why else would the persuadingness with which you want to deviate the sovereign institutions, such as municipal and regional councils, be explained by transferring important responsibilities to committees such as Economic and Quality of Life? The most impressive thing, however, is that in these committees with your arrangements, it ensures a majority in any case, but in any case, the combination of the elected mayor, even if it represents only 15% of the electorate. But there, where you have overcome yourself and it will indeed be a patent, it is degeneration, not to say distortion, of the concept of partnerships with one of them, of the elected mayor. Do you know what you're doing? You set up, gentlemen of the government, a consortium for a marriage for which, however, there is no right to divorce. And then you have the illusion that there will be sustainability, that there will be good and effective rulership in self-government. In the first and second rounds of elections, you did not really manage to unite the guerrilla ballots of your resignation. Now what are you doing? You are setting a third round with legislation this time. Your aim, gentlemen, is quite clear. It is the return to the outdated state-of-the-art and regional-regional model of power, the re-establishment of a system of power of small or large interests, reproducing the customer system, a model of self-government expansion and a model of the state that just gave us one taste for what you actually want in a central state. One more thing, ladies and gentlemen. You intend not to shield self-government, but to shield you, setting up the regions and municipalities as implosions, believing that this will halt the discontent that your planned policies will cause. Except that is already the acceptance of your weakness and your insecurity as a government, and that will appear very quickly, despite the majority you have in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u713	Thank you, too. Mr Manolakos has the floor from New Democracy and Mr SYRIZA is about to prepare. Here you go, Mr Manolaco, you have five whole minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u714	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like, since it is my first speech to Parliament, to thank, through my heart, the citizens of Piraeus and the islands who elected me to represent them in this House and to wish everyone a productive term of office. I personally am very optimistic and I am optimistic that the government begins with the best omens, with fast and targeted response to the issues that had either in the past created a disturbance in society as a whole or in the future could lead to powerlessness in local government. In short time, I shall refer to very specific articles, which are at the heart of public opinion and political controversy. It is well known that the implementation of a mere analogous to the self-government elections has been the mayor with a minority on the municipal council. During the then government, the mayor should find the necessary majority every time to vote on matters on the municipal council. I honestly do not know if this is a misfortune based on the ideas of the then rulers or on political naivety, at least. The municipalities, ladies and gentlemen, suffer from financial difficulties and give a daily survival struggle. Within this anguish, mayors should every time, and for every decision to look for short-term majorities, so that there is transparency in the lawmakers at the time. That's hypocrisy, though! The opposite would be true. Korres would fall into the municipalities! If you don't understand, ask the mayors to tell you. For this reason, the Government establishes the possibility of involving municipal and regional authorities with the compulsory participation of the newly elected mayor or regional director. The party that won the election will therefore be able to implement its programme. Ladies and gentlemen, a great deal has been said about university asylum. Since I remember myself, we've been talking about university asylum. But what protects the asylum? Who? I consider a small minority, which, within university spaces, terrorises teachers, students and administrative staff, often by means of violent and illegal acts. And to say that these minorities are often directed by non-university forces and support illegal actions. We have also reached the chordic situations, which anarchists' groups broke, burned, and, when the police approached, entered the university and asked for asylum. That's called asylum? What civilized country? Today, then, we are asking that there should be no fear within universities. We call for the law to be applied, just as it applies to every public area and not just to apply, but - be careful! - we ask that this be applied. And we are determined to implement the law and if we have to deal with phenomena of infraction and crime within and around academic institutions. This is because we simply consider that these phenomena have no reason to exist in an environment that was set up by definition to discipline and inflame healthy principles and healthy standards in the new generation. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the proposed draft law is in the right direction and is particularly responding to the urgent problems of Greek society, such as in the health sector with Article 72, which reduces by two percentage points the interest rate on the debts to the insurance funds, namely 3% of the 5%, and also in the health sector with Article 74, which comes to break down the stereotype of the abstract state and to show that there is the possibility of practical assistance to our fellow citizens with serious health problems. Because, by exempting serious patients from the suffering of endless queues and by facilitating the distribution and receipt of high-cost medicines for cancer patients and for our fellow people with multiple sclerosis, we thus lay the foundations for a state with greater sensitivity and faster social reflexes. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a month ago, on 7 July, the New Democracy Government received a clear mandate from the Greek people, to change the bad text and move forward. In honour of this people's mandate, we are obliged to change the question and move on with an organised plan, with clear laws and rules. This is what the third in a series of bills by the Government of New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis makes for the benefit of the entire Greek society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u715	Thank you, too. Mr. Skouriakos has the floor from SYRIZA and then Mr. Callianos from New Democracy. Mr. Darkness, you're in shape, you're not going to embarrass me!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u716	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the recent elections the Greek people voted on the promises and promises offered by the New Democracy and gave it the opportunity to govern. In the short time that has taken place, however, one can see that on a number of issues the new government is absolutely doing the opposite of what it promised. She's changing her place in emblematics for the same cases. What can one assume by seeing its post-election attitude to the issue of the Presidencies Agreement? In his round table "ECONOMIST" with the Minister of National Defence stated that it was achieved for a good purpose and that it would enhance stability in the region. What's going on? After the election, isn't the deal treason? And we are not "gloating", as you called us, and traitors? If that is the case, either we are not traitors or, if what you were saying in the election is true, you are also traitors now! And it's not just the Prespes. He is also the chief of police at the fatal, destructive night in Matti, for which Mr. Mitsotakis pre-electionally wondered how he sleeps quietly and said that no one can trust such officials in any new disaster. He was appointed post-elections Secretary-General to the Ministry of Civil Protection. You do the same with the bill under discussion. You have promised a state that will not be a party, but with this bill you are building the party state of New Democracy, which is something you know very well. You've done it many times in the past and you've always done it successfully. For example, articles relating to the Ministry of Culture in the bill under discussion. Article 88 describes the composition of the Board. the Fund for Archaeological Resources and Expropriations. This is something unprecedented. For the first time on the Board of Directors of the EDF shall not participate archaeologist. The Minister came here and told us 'but it has been abolished for twelve years'. Because it is flesh from the Ministry's flesh, the Minister knows very well that for twelve years all the ministers had honoured archaeologists and had always been an archaeologist at least at the Archaeological Resources Fund. And he's an archaeologist as far as I know the Minister. Archaeologists are the backbone of the Ministry of Culture. By this provision, the opinion of the Central Archaeological Board, the CSCE, on the appointment of the Management Board shall be repealed. All the previous Ministers of Culture have honoured this condition, by all the parties, of all the governments that have passed. Another insult to archaeologists! So that's why the Minister was allegedly invaded last week? So he can put the archaeologists on ice so easily? It happened unprecedented. The name of the new president of the Archaeological Resources Fund was announced by the Maximos Mansion, not by the Ministry. And here we have a matter of altering the culture. The ministers are not handlers. The ministers produce work and are controlled by Parliament. In the previous article, Article 87 there is a 'grass'. We are fishing for two posters and two special advisers for the President of the EDF. That's never happened before. There have never been four such positions next to the President of the EDF and as far as I know it is not used to such structures. After the armies - the hundreds - of retired, then, you confess to the Maximos Mansion, the Ministers, etc., here are four others, which no one had ever understood. And who knows how many others are hiding in other cases. But the establishment of the Party State of New Democracy in culture takes off by Article 89. The appointment of artistic directors without any obligation to consult, directly by the Minister, was something that the world of culture insisted on changing. This unacceptable tactic the government of SYRIZA worked to change it by voting for L.4369/2016, which institutionalises the National Register of Officers. Thus, for the first time in the country, the positions of artistic directors at the National Theatre, at the Greek Festival, at the National Museum of Contemporary Art and at the State Conservatory of Thessaloniki were opened, with transparency and control. Anyone could look for whose party boy it was going to be the manager. So your Government comes and abolishes the law, not in this case, by a ministerial decision, namely, but essentially by legislating this shameful article on democracy and culture, Article 89. The Minister shall withdraw the notices of the positions that have been taken. He said the law was abolished. But the Minister first withdrew the notices and then the law was abolished. Such a rush? Such a slut? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The New Democracy does not accept open procedures for the recruitment of artistic directors. It does not concern the transparency and the right of all the citizens who want to participate in such a process, such as the recruitment of an artistic director! No, that's what the Minister will decide about, like the old days in her office or whatever Maximos tells us. I'd like to know if Mr. Mitsotakis agrees. Does this article express its excellent announcements? If so, it turns out he was lying. If not, then the Minister himself must withdraw this indisputable article, Article 89. Ladies and gentlemen, the percentage you have taken in the recent elections is not a people's cheque which allows you undemocratic arbitrages, such as those imposed by the articles in question. There's been an episode before. If you think that 40% is a dowry that you can show and say "I have 40% and you sit down and don't talk", that doesn't show democratic culture, it doesn't show politicians who feel what's going on. People are on their way. 40% may have been 45%, but it may have been 35%. It's not worth anyone and it doesn't belong to anyone. It was that moment's decision. And as they give us their vote, they can take it from us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u717	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u718	I'm done, Mr. President. Thank you. So you can be sure, however, that the people, as the poet says, will be able to save you as a shed judge and then no party state will be able to save you, but no one! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u719	Thank you very much. Mr. Callianos from New Democracy has the floor and Mr. Mulkiotis will be followed by the Change Movement. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for five whole minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u720	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I still remember the words of Mr Tsipras in 2015, when this Stepma said 'We intend to diversify ourselves from previous governments of the past and to do exactly what we had said in election'. Nevertheless, as you know very well, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, and all of us in this Chamber, but also all the Greek citizens, have cut pensions, you have wanted to reduce the tax-free amount further - the ESS has been cut off, the public property has been delivered for a hundred years, the capital controls have been in place. We had this imbalance in the business sector, the taxes increased, we had 6% in favour of health - if you remember it well had bothered our colleagues SYRIZA's five-year-old Adoni Georgiadis then, yet now the people who go to hospitals pay 6%, whether they go or not, every month in favour of health - the 75% to 80% had to give a tax and insurance operator, and many packages were put in, and you voted, if you remember, even the group redundancies in the private sector. I am not saying all of this because I just want to remind you of what you have brought to the Greek citizens, colleagues of SYRIZA. I say all this because I really understand your embarrassment and to some extent I understand how you feel when you see the Prime Minister of a country - at the moment Mr Mitsotakis - to do exactly what he had said in the past. I can understand how bad and awkward you are feeling, when you see from the first day of the country's governance that there are real reforms and when you see things going right, and that it gets into the shaft, as we say, water, so that we can become a serious country in Europe. The New Democracy wants our country to be a serious country of Western civilization. New Democracy wants our country to be a country belonging to the hard core of Europe. We are doing things that we consider reasonable and I think that all Greek citizens have now realised that we have entered the process very quickly to be able to alleviate the pockets of Greek citizens, but also to make reforms that will bring better days to our place. When you were a government, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, Mr. 4485/2017, which provided for - to return to asylum a little - that public power in areas of the Greek universities is allowed on its own initiative in the case of crimes and crimes against life. So you yourselves, gentlemen of the SYRIZA, have provided for self-determination, accepting that the university is not an illegal place. All the rest of the parties at that time - I turn a little back and go to a detail which has its substance and its importance - voted 'no' on the whole, and first of all on Article 3 on asylum and other articles, took a roll-call vote at the request of the Members of the New Democracy. It's specific information you may not remember, but I have to remind you of them so that you know. Why am I saying that? To say that the New Democracy has the same attitude in the past, now and in the future, in relation to what we have said in the past few months. So I want you to understand that what we said about asylum continues to say it and we will continue to say it during this particular governance. So New Democracy is the only party that since November 2018 in its programme, on its website www.nd.gr, had just presented the curriculum of education, which said the following. Here is the programme of the education of the New Democracy since November 2018, to understand that we will continue to say so and we will do so, because that is why the Greek citizens voted for us. So let's go over here. We say: 'Abrogation of asylum'. Essentially safeguarding academic freedom in research and instruction, but also effectively addressing the phenomenon of violence and lawlessness. Self-determination of public authorities in respect of all criminal offences committed in institutions.’; That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek citizens have voted for us. We're not ethers. We are not saying that we took 40% and now we will be the best of all etc., but at least for that the Greek citizens voted for us, to do what we said not only in 2018, but much earlier. I therefore put the New Democracy programme in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Callianos, presents for the minutes the above programme, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I shall now present to you very quickly a personal experience of asylum, because I wish to remain on this subject and an article. As a professor of mathematics and graduate of the University of Patras, it is a subject that I personally am very concerned about and sensitizes me. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in half a minute. Please, for a moment, your tolerance. In 1997-1998 I went to the Mathematical Department of the University of Patras. When I was making my suitcases to go to Patras - why we stay here in Athens - my parents came and said: "My boy, from here and then, luck is on your side. You'll be able to erase your future. We want you to be a good student. We don't have a machine that cuts money. We're two civil servants. Try to finish your time too, to read, to be correct to your obligations, so that after four years, you can go back, start looking for a job that will be of interest to you." I finished in four years, continued, did two more postgraduate studies at the University of Fathers in Applied Mathematics. I mean, she never bothered me, dear friends, or rather - to use a more correct expression - I entered the process of thinking about whether a felony act was taking place at the University of Patras at that time. To tell you the truth, it was a very good university, in the sense that we didn't have such actions during the six years I studied there. However, I did not get into the process to think in case such an act would happen if the police intervened. Obviously, I wanted the police to intervene to restore order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u721	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u722	I shall conclude, Mr President, in just a minute. What I personally was interested in was studying, being right to my obligations, not paying parents for the next 15 years, being an eternal student, not making occupations for no reason. What I tried to do as the President of the student's LPD at the time - because I also dealt with the commons - was not to take over or burn the buildings and break up and write with a spray on the walls and abuse public property. What bothered me was having better libraries, having better writings, becoming a better lesson than the teachers. So this is our point, and I wonder why SYRIZA - and I am ending with this proposal - is it so much that we can better control the situation from now on in what sense? Universities belong to their students, their teachers and civil servants and not to people who want to use heroin in there, not people who want to destroy public property and not people who want to make rapes and thefts. It's just things. That is why the Greek citizens voted for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u723	Mr. Mulkiotis has the floor from the Change Movement. Mr. Amanatidis should also be prepared from the New Democracy. Here, Mr. Colleague, you have five minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u724	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we thought that the well-known practice under way in the previous government would be abolished with the elections that took place, but the first legislative samples of the New Democracy Government, unfortunately, show the opposite. Today we are discussing a multi-legislative draft submitted under the urgency procedure, a bill that was in consultation for three days, with seventy-four articles and finally tabled with a hundred eight articles. If this practice is a good piece of legislation, Minister, then a matter arises. If also, this practice is not anti-institutional, tell me what else it is. A large part of the bill is supposed to face the impasses of governance to local self-government caused by "KLISTHEN". Indeed, KLITHENIS was one of the falsified reforms of the previous government. Basically, with KLATHEN, he reiterated, in the most extreme version, the well-known political opportunism. That is why he designed, meditated and enforced the institutionalisation - in the way it was imposed - of mere analogy and attempted to fragment the forces of self-government, no matter whether the law would bring power to the regions and municipalities. We, the Change Movement, had warned and predicted, and in full detail, everything that happened and done. After all, we proposed concrete corrections and fought at all levels to prevent 'CLISTEN' before being voted on. And we did this because the relationship between PASOK and self-government is well known. The achievements of decentralisation have our own fingerprint. It is the governments of the PASOK who gave life and breath to self-government, this institution, gaining substantial powers and resources and acted on the institution of the hereditary prefecture of prefecture and of the hereditary regional government, thus giving the necessary political status. Ladies and gentlemen, with the proposed bill you, unfortunately, with the addition of the partnership to the OTA governance system, as reflected in Article 1, are not guaranteeing governance. The partnership is a hypothetical scenario. In other municipalities, it's not going to happen to others. We disagree with your approach from the outset, because the draft law does not deal with how the municipalities to which the partnership will operate will operate. Our disagreement is essential and institutional acronyms are not solutions. The author of the bill obviously fails to adapt his perception of the governance of the ATTs to shapes and rules that escape from the model that existed before Law 4555/2018. When it is not in front of the fact that the mayor's or regional majority on the board is not broad enough, it cannot think otherwise than of building it backwards by strict administrative procedures. The act, however, will show that the options are unfortunate and inappropriate. And I explain that the provisions of Law 4555/2018 regulated the right to join orders and this right was certainly not a consequence of the mere analogy, but it was a right for every political association of individuals to decide to join or break it and is founded on the free will of citizens. A blocking decision shall be taken by written declaration of the majority of their members, taken once and for all and shall not be revoked. I do not believe, Mr Ministers, that the author did not have knowledge of self-government data. I do not believe that any statement of will may be revoked when the data that led to it are changed. Ladies and gentlemen, it is reasonable and legitimate that the necessary cooperation between the factions should be based on a programme agreement and that, as a result, participation in the distribution of roles is involved. This requires consultation and cooperation of settlings, in which both the members and the head recognise the abstentions of the governance system. The role of the Heads of State or Government is important, in fact, for the functioning of the resignations. These healthy cooperations are indeed a reasonable and legitimate consequence of the non-exclusive and broad majority of the mayor or regional in the council and will inevitably be attempted in practice, even after a large majority has been achieved in the committees and in the administrations of legal persons, because no one can degrade the role of councils in the system of governance of municipalities and regions. You cannot answer SYRIZA's logic of responding with authoritarian centralism, as is the case here. As a movement of change, we believe that the country's productive, economic, development and institutional lag behind the country makes it necessary to develop new relations between central government and self-government. That is why we have said that it is necessary to modernise, reform and decentralise the existing central administration, overcoming any strife and anachronistic structures it has. There is a need for profound structural changes and reforms at all levels of administration and government, otherwise we will recycle our deadlocks. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the regulation of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to reduce the annual basic rate of debt to the social security institutions currently in force at 3%, I would stress that the 3% rate should be extended to all the arrangements for late payment, all the arrangements that are in force at higher rates, i.e. both to the municipalities and to the legal entities governed by public law and to the private legal persons of the State, to the rural bank in liquidation, in the arrangements that have been made with the extrajudicial compromise, which is not the case with the reduced rate. All this is torturing the world! Otherwise, it is not covered by the needs that have been created and, on the other hand, it is wrong for those who have been involved in previous regulations that they hold, despite the problems they face, since the difficult economic situation has not changed. I'll say a few words about asylum. Ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement has a clear position: we are in favour of the abolition of lawlessness. The legislative framework has been in place and in force since 2011. The problem is that both the Government and the Civic Opposition treat asylum solely in the light of political feasibility. The government has engaged in a systematic obsessed demonization and asylum symposium, charging to it all the problems that the universities consume. The Civic Opposition is fortified with passion behind its unfortunate legislation, blinding and throwing the ball into the platform.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u725	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u726	I shall conclude, Mr President. We believe that the asylum issue requires clear and simple formalities so that it can produce the greatest freedom. The tradition of university asylum in turn is almost identical to the concept of university, and in that sense we have to protect asylum. That is what we are doing with our proposal, as the President made very clearly a few hours ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u727	Don't take advantage of my kindness. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u728	Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude by saying that the late professor of Ioannis Manoledakis in 2010 at an interview he had given and talked about asylum said...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u729	You've gone far beyond your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u730	Mr President, I shall conclude. So he said: "If they had started implementing the law, we would have no problem. Because the law is clear: if it is a felony - and a felony - it is the construction of bombs, molotovs, drug trafficking, violence, anti-life crimes - the police are coming in without any permission from anyone. But what some think that if the asylum is completely abolished is all good, it is a great nonsense.” Ioannis Manoledakis said that in 2010. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u731	Thank you, too. Mr Amanatidis has the floor from New Democracy and then Mr Papadopoulos from SYRIZA. You did it and we took the time to seven to eight minutes. Please stay in six minutes. What you're saying, you can say it in six minutes. Here you go, Mr. Amanatidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u732	Election I told the citizens of Kozani: "Give me strength to serve you, to be useful." Today I thank them. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, now in this House, effective, operational and useful legislation is a role of the national Parliament, and the principle of continuous improvement should be characterized by the preventive action taken by the legislator and making legislation more operational. This objective is intended to cover the present multi-brand plan, and it also includes arrangements that are applied for the first time in the government programme. We are ultimately interested in the continuous improvement, step by step, and not the negative criticism that is always being made backwards, which measures lost opportunities and opportunities that could be prevented. After all, the self-government period will not be judged by whether the forecasts of 'KLITHENH' were implemented, but if, during this period, good and productive decisions were made for the benefit of the citizens, if regional and local development was effectively promoted and ultimately if the country took steps forward, in an environment that should be constantly improved. Therefore, invoking the need for governance is a responsible attitude and the need for regulation that this draft law promotes is a key step, focusing on the result, from which institutions and initiatives are judged. In the question "liberation of forces and immediately from the outset programming cooperation - partnership - Article 1 - or negotiation of roles for the governance of the areas of responsibility" the answer is unequivocal. The first dilemma is the choice, which will be judged by the result, namely the emergence of opportunities and the response to difficulties. This is the aim of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, as well as the Committee on Quality of Life on the basis of their responsibilities. The other arrangements, the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior, regulate current forecasts and make them more operational. I would ask that the case be examined in the context of the regulation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs so that the regulation of Article 14 - which we discussed, Mr Minister - does not only concern the specific categories, but every citizen who, for important reasons, changes some of the properties he had at the time of his application until the date of appointment. After all, the explanatory statement goes in this context and serves the proposal I am presenting to you. As far as the Ministry of Digital Governance is concerned, the arrangements introduced for the first time are complete and create a structure focused on the result, using modern technology. Reinforcement of historical memory and the advisability of continuous improvement make the adjustments of real incision and the new structure an integral tool for fleeing in the future. Of course, when such a strategy unfolds out in the first three weeks of the government, it is understood that it has blocked the entire government mechanism and is a strategic option. This will cover oligopoies of the past and will eventually produce multiplier benefits in the economy, in public administration, in the environment and in society. With regard to the regulations of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, and in particular Article 64, which deals with academic freedoms and the upgrading of the quality of life of the academic environment, which has gathered everyone's attention, the projections are objectively self-evident. Firstly, the self-employed, secondly, are protected against anyone who tries to catalyse or restrict academic freedom or freedom of expression and, thirdly, a positive provision is included, which concerns intervention only because of criminal offences. With regard to the provisions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the arrangement to reduce the rate of the regulated debts to the social security institutions will give another breath to businesses and households and will contribute to their sustainability and in addition to their reliability: a hundred twenty instalments, three percentage points lower. The forecasts for the distribution of high-cost medicinal products directly to the insured person - we stress this, Article 74 - and the forecasts for the settlement of the late obligations of hospitals are also substantial. Civil protection should be multifaceted, as should public and municipal property. A civil protection coordination body will link forces and instruments and act as a complement to and optimise the expected results. Before I close, I would like to make a point, because of the issues of the Ministry of Health, which I shall submit to the Minister when I meet him. Prescribing tests for patients with chronic conditions does not have the one month time limit that the system wants. The reasons are understandable, too. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, legislation and planning have the value we give them in their implementation. Criticism is what is at issue. More importantly, however, it is the government's ability to judge what it believes and not what it has found and should apply, although it disagrees. The regulations I mentioned come to solve problems and give a perspective for this and I approve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u733	Be well. Thank you very much. Mr. Giolas has the floor from SYRIZA and Mr. Biagis from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u734	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with my position I shall refer to the regulations relating to grades I and II, which are the subject of the majority, it is assumed that, in order to prevent their inability to administer and to apply the 'CLITHEN', which established the electoral system of mere analogy. The malfunctions, of course, are speculated on the government's part that they will be reappeared, but without the possibility of testing the provisions of the most democratic system for the election of OTA organs. Unfortunately, the projection of inability to rule is due to the fact that the New Democracy Government is unable to understand the democratic way in which decisions are taken through an open, equitable and creative dialogue of resignations and policies. On the contrary, it perceives local government as a privileged field for imposing the unique sovereign and perhaps uncontrolled position of the protagonist of the game, i.e. the mayor or the district ruler. They shall therefore reject the procedure for the genuine, open and live exchange of views calling for mutual understanding and composition, which will produce the best decisions for the governance of the specified organism. Before, however, I quote the arguments in support of the choices made by KLITHENHEN, which are important to repeat, I have to raise the issue of the unconstitutionality of the provisions of the draft in question. A few months after the self-government elections on May 26 and a few days before the establishment of the new municipal and regional authorities, the government is attempting to change the way the OTAs are set up and run. It is thus appalled and brutally altered by the choice made by the citizens who knew and understood as data the results of their election, as they were deleted from the provisions of the law that applied the simple analogue. Retrospective legislation and since it had meanwhile become the selection and classification of the orders, but also the selection of the advisors elected, since the first Sunday, differentiate from the current way in which the administrations of the OTA bodies are formed. In addition, however, we must analyse and rethink the inappropriate nature of the mere analogy, as is heard by the lips of the New Democracy colleagues. The simple analogue system reflects the genuine and true will of voters. Citizens' votes shall be equal and shall be fully proportional to the establishment of the Board of Directors. In response to the arguments put forward against non-governmentality, but a provocation of impoverishments in the administration of the TAs, I must quote: The majority of municipal council decisions, of more than 85%, are taken unanimously. The system shall ensure how a final decision is taken. How? In fact, as an excellent system of mere analogy, it leaves no room for non-governmentality and deadlock, as you do, since the provisions of the 'CLITHEN' have been precisely and fully defined as the way in which the basic decisions on local government are voted on, such as the budget, the technical programme. So in the system, this mayor is not the absolute sovereign. It's not the city's only body of power. The people choose him on the first Sunday by an absolute majority and approve the programme of his resignation. But the second Sunday, when it has not been elected by 50%+1, the people choose the least evil. In other words, it does not have full acceptance. In addition, the technique of artificial welding two or more factions suffers for its undemocratic character and for most reasons. Firstly, there is no guarantee of agitation, which was not in many cases the case with the previous system of safeguarding the 3/5 of the Councils. I do not think it is a good thing that two factions have been added, which in the name of democracy should have been decided on assembling. Potential non-vote on one hand or another, how will they discipline themselves? If they vote, will it not raise a matter of frustration and should it not be brought to the fore by their resignation? So the break-in of the artificial majority. They are therefore compressed to the possible disappearance of the diversity of each party. The antidote? The transparent co-operation of the factions on a programme basis open to citizens' knowledge and choice. The 'CLITHENH' programme sets out the conditions for having a happy ending with repeated majorities in the final and between the two predominant ones. So we have no power. No deadlock and no misrepresentation of the executive of the mayor's body and no confusion with the parliamentary nature of the municipal council. With the provisions of 'CLOSURE', the SYRIZA government has achieved another intersection, intra-democratic decentralisation. More specifically, it gave local communities decisive responsibilities, disconnecting the institutions of community administration from the combinations that take part in the municipal elections, so that only local initiatives or even individual candidates can be activated at the community's micro-level, mainly managing everyday issues, for which proximity and directness are judged and necessary. This is what the New Democracy dares to call in the explanatory statement of the bill a decisive competence given to the representatives of the communities in accordance with the provisions of Law 4555 and creates a de facto form of self-government III, which is incompatible with the provisions of the Constitution. However, the representatives of the community network already in the committee yesterday requested that the relevant articles of the 'CLISTEN' be withdrawn. They know something more. It would therefore be a wish that the present government cease to confer powers over the hands of one-sided or a few administrative bodies, but distribute them to the collective bodies and give them real competences, which relate to the substance of the daily life of the public. Where and how far does the Economic Commission plan recruitment and not the City Council? From where and until the economic committee itself can regulate debts notices, commissions, etc.Huh? Isn't that where we have the realm of corruption?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u735	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u736	Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, with the mayoral model proposed by this bill on local government following the Prime Minister's suggestion yesterday for the central government, do you not put the foundations to dispel the idea that you are dealing with or want local government as a long hand to your supposedly executive state? Worse, right. This is not even your expectations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u737	Mr. Beagis has the floor from the Change Movement. Then Mr. Syrigos from New Democracy. You have five whole minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u738	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me first of all to thank my neighbours who have given me the honour of sending me here before you. Secondly, you will allow me to state my excitement to the claim that I really feel by speaking here today in the temple of democracy. Mr President, we are debating today in plenary a draft law which seeks to solve at the same time key and important problems in education, in self-government, in the independent authorities, in the policy of medicine and health. All together in a draft law. As a newly elected Member, I certainly imagined a completely different parliamentary reality. It is with great sadness that I have seen in this Chamber a strong legislative curiosity, mainly aimed at communication policy. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under discussion started in consultation with seventy-four articles. It is currently being discussed in plenary over the hundreds of eight articles, of which thirty-four had no prior consultation, which clearly stumbles on the principles of good legislature. The New Democracy Government has been tabling the bill under discussion constantly cultivating a myth about the rulership of the ATT. It is, however, a parliamentary originality to try to resolve failures, errors and omissions of a previous evil law, the 'CLITHEN' Act, fragmented. You are trying, gentlemen, to create artificial liquid majorities in order to achieve - as you say - the effectiveness of the municipalities and regions, but directly violating popular sovereignty. To what extent can a government - after elections have been held before - intervene and even change the composition of the institutions, the powers of the institutions and change their way of showing up, and the electorate has already, about a month ago, given its vote on the combinations and programmes? It is clear, therefore, that the provisions from 1 to 18 at least can be termed hand-written. Instead of solving a hypothetical problem, they will create more and more problems. Ladies and gentlemen, these regulations, which deal with the governance of OTAs, lead from one end to the other, that is, from the risk of obsolescence of OTAs to the overpower of mayors and regional authorities. And I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that, if you want to talk in terms of reform, any section that has taken place in Otta I and II bears the signature of our prolongation. PASOK was this in 1994, which established the election of the prefectures. The PASOK with the "KOPSTRIA" project and with Law 2539/1997 also carried out the first major self-government reform since the era of Eleftherios Venizelos. The country was divided into thirteen districts, fifty - one county, nine hundred ten municipalities and a hundred and twenty - four communities. Finally, the PASOK with Law 3852/2010 and the KALIKARATIS project further promoted self-government reform. Greece was divided into seven decentralised administrations, thirteen regions and three hundred and fifty-two municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek state needs large areas in order to make decentralisation in OTAs I and 2, rather than modifications to provisions and laws. So if you really want to implement areas, you must present your own overall reform programme, which will have your own stamp and signature. We are already too late, ladies and gentlemen. Society is ahead of us. With the invoicing partnerships, you are directly undermining the role of the regional and municipal council, which is the main consultation bodies without any programming and self-government. As a consequence, the majority that are created and attempted to be created can lead to opacity processes. There is a need for representativeness and elections themselves. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, I'm ending. In addition, you are able to have another type of party, but it is neither the election result nor the political body, which is the municipal and regional council. So it has no legitimacy, and it is directly violated by the people's sovereignty. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you understand very clearly that your account of rulership is a waste. The second big issue, which concerns asylum. For the Change Movement, the safeguarding of academic freedom in research and teaching as well as the free movement of ideas at the AIO are unnegotiable principles. It was the PASOK Government that, under the 1982 Framework Act, Law No 1268/1982 guaranteed its content. Subsequently, all subsequent laws set preconditions for police intervening when felony acts are carried out within the EITs. Today, as a government, in the context of a constructed communication policy, you are using asylum as a central element, but you do not present us with anything specific about upgrading the quality of the HEIs, their assessment, the way of administration, their connection to modern trends in the economy and society, their extroversion and their real autonomy by the state. Mr President-in-Office, this issue does not allow for tactics or communication games. Clearly we say 'yes' to the fight against lawlessness within educational institutions, but without that means, under no circumstances, that we will ever accept isogeographic solutions and any equation of the university space with purely communal squares and other pavements, which will enable even preventive intervention. Minister, I also addressed the floor to the committee, asking you to become pregnant over the new municipalities created by Law 4600/2019.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u739	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u740	In conclusion, Mr President, this is an important part of my prefecture. This is a law which was passed very quickly and which had not foreseen giving the same conditions as the municipalities need, so that they could stand on their feet. In this context, we have proposed and asked you to have, at least in your ministry, an agency to which young, newly created and municipalities can be sent, in order to see the course of these municipalities, and to give them the conditions to be able to deal with the problems they have every day.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u741	Mr. Biagi, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u742	I say this because I come from a prefecture, the Corfu Prefecture, as you know, Minister, who is facing very important problems with the issue of waste, for which you may in the right direction give a licence to sign some direct contracts, but the problem is not solved. The responsibility is too great and you need to help the new municipal authorities overcome the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u743	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u744	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u745	Mr. Marcus will talk and then we'll close. You should know that, so I'm consistent. Mr. Syrigos from New Democracy has the floor and Mr. Hatzigiannakis will be prepared by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u746	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in my maiden speech in this House, I will begin with some quite frequent misunderstandings about the asylum issue. The first misunderstanding is that in universities there is asylum of ideas at risk. In fact, no general asylum of ideas is protected, as it sounds wrong. The freedom to spread ideas is fully protected by the Constitution for all, both inside and outside universities. There is no need for special treatment within the university. In universities, however, very specific rights are protected, directly linked to the academic area in which they are exercised, and these rights relate to ensuring academic freedom. And, when we say academic freedom, ladies and gentlemen, we mean only three things: freedom of teaching, freedom of research and freedom of science. That's what's protected from asylum at universities. That's academic freedom. The second misunderstanding is that the asylum will be violated if a police force enters the university. Asylum is not violated if police forces enter the university to investigate a violent attack on students. In fact, the asylum has already been violated by the violent attack. The asylum is violated whenever one blocks academic freedom, namely freedom of teaching, freedom of research, freedom of science. Every time someone blocks a lesson, every time he builds a professor's door, every time he closes a lab, every time he stops science, we have an asylum violation. It's not the police that will break the asylum. They are the ones who have already broken the asylum. A third misunderstanding we have is that this bill abolishes asylum. As has already been said, it is also a mistake of the New Democracy, as it says, and it is something very common in the media. We are constantly talking about the abolition of asylum. In fact, there is no abolition of asylum. We should be talking about rehabilitating university asylum. In this sense, this bill restores asylum because academic freedom is guaranteed. A fourth misunderstanding - it has often been heard today, mainly by the Communist Party of Greece has been said - is that the problem of infractionality in universities can be addressed with the existing university framework. This suggests that all these years, from 1982 until now, the dean authorities have not done their job well. It is not possible that so many dean authorities have not done their job well. You need to see what's going on. When, for so many decades now, there has been a problem, it is not with the Republican authorities, it is with the legal framework.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u747	'82 was lawless?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u748	Mr. Dritsa, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u749	There's traditional lawlessness. If you want me to tell you, Mr Dritsa, in 1985 they had entered the Chemistry and had been occupied at the Chemistry for seven days, and it was a mess.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u750	We got it, all right!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u751	Please, no dialogue, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u752	All right, we understand everything!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u753	Mr. Janakopoulos, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u754	It is clear that it is not the Republican authorities that do not apply this framework.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u755	But the sanctuary came in in '85!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u756	The asylum didn't come in '85, came in '87.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u757	Why are you ruining me now at the end?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u758	He came in '85 at the Starfleet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u759	It was '87.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u760	Then you tell me about time!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u761	Some others have returned forty - five years ago, when the Security Great was operating on a dictatorship. For the vast majority of the Greek people this is a prehistoric story.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u762	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u763	Actually, Mr. Tsipras. Your former Prime Minister and Chief was born in '74 that abolished the Great Security. If we want to speak today from whom the asylum is at stake, it is at risk from minority groups, which are calling teachers with posters with their photos, and from groups of offenders who find refuge in the criminal abatto of university institutions. Sabbath for the police. Let us finally restore real freedom. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is not left or right. The problem is an insanity that we have been experiencing in recent years all of us who have been teaching in Greek universities. I am very proud, because I am a genuine child of Greek public education. I finished in public school, public high school, public high school, public university, I also teach at a public university. Unfortunately, we lose the forest and we see the tree. What's the forest? That the public university is the main lever of social mobility in Greece. We must look after him as an eye daughter, not let him be destroyed by moves, such as those that have been happening over the last few decades with the so-called asylum, as we call it. This bill will restore true asylum and restore true freedom to its three forms: freedom of education, freedom of research, freedom of science. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u764	Thank you, too. Mr Hatzigiannakis has the floor from SYRIZA and Mr Santorinios will also be followed by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u765	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think the Bureau knew that we liked it at night and had my first speech in plenary to make it overnight.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u766	Courage!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u767	Ladies and gentlemen, it is my first speech in this House and it is a little strange, a little unpleasant, to have to talk about a multi-brand plan that raises so many issues and essentially provides for the very clear downgrading of two institutions that I served several years: firstly, that of local government 1, grade 1, as mayor and, secondly, that of university asylum as lawyer and as a student, obviously. Since the first month I have been here, I see the New Democracy Government going through an institutional diversion as to the specific provisions on local government. The government with this multi-legislative plan is trying to give the mayor the power, ignoring the changes that preceded them, on the basis of which they were only two months ago, all the parties and the ballots were organised and, of course, the world voted. Regardless of whether anyone agrees or disagrees with the provisions of "KLITHENI", however, both this law and all the previous local authorities - "KALIKRATS", the Code of Municipalities and Communities, the "KOLITISTRIA" and all those who had preceded - were consulted with all the relevant bodies of local government, the CEDEFOP, the CEDEFOP before, the HSY. No government has come up with such serious changes, especially in the governance of municipalities and regions, without any consultation, with three days of consultation. Really, Mr. Undersecretary, on three days have you consulted who have you consulted? How did you consult? What exactly did they tell you? Because we as mayors until recently had no reason. At least SYRIZA, in his "CLISTEN" bill for a year and a half he heard everyone, the dissidents, the consensuals and, of course, Parliament passed the law. How did you discover the problems of local government here? In consultation with who did you discover? The SYRIZA government's vote in favour of "KLITHENI" opened a new era in the democratic upgrading of local government. The previous system was replaced by a new, proportional, in which the involvement of the citizens, the complicity of forces and the programming shocks dominate. In the previous electoral system, in which I performed my duties in Skyros, whether you were given 15% or 25% or 50%, you had 60% of the municipal council. I, who took 32% in the first round of the self-government elections, and my dear colleague, Dionysos Hatzidakis, who took 65% in the first round, had exactly the same representation and exactly the same opportunity to develop ourselves, without asking anyone, of course, apart from our own group, the policy of the municipality. We, of course, had decided to originalize in the Municipality of Skyros, in a very small municipality, and to ask the opposition to municipal councils. In 90% of the decisions, despite the fact that we had an absolute majority, we asked the opposition, we heard it, and we asked her to propose things, because we simply believed - and we believe - that, regardless of the system that existed, we wanted synergies, and we do not think that we are the king's kings, because a system gave us 60% of the majority of the municipal council. Of course, this model does not give mighty self - power to the mayors. It requires changing perceptions, pluralism and creative compositions. This is the case in almost all European countries. Last year, the study of the Institute of Local Government ordered it by the CEDEFOP, which was against 'CLISTEN'. However, this study, which has been presented to us mayors and members of the CEDEFOP, has shown that about 90% of the European states, which then tell us that we want to be like them, have simple proportional systems. We, of course, do not like the simple analogue here. In the rest we want to become Europeans, it does not serve us. Having so far devoted almost all the years of my legal career to the issues of self-government, but also as an outgoing mayor, I have had the opportunity in recent months to experience an extremely hopeful and regrettable situation along the way towards the polls of the local elections: consensus, dialogue and civilised confrontation, a situation which is very different from the choices we had in 2014, very different in most of the municipalities of Evia, in which I have been back at this time. We still have a long way to go, but we can only welcome the emergence of a culture of cooperation and political culture, the values on which local government must and must be founded. The above changes, of course, seem to be annoying the government and it is intended to help its mayors, in introductory or out-of-import. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In the name of so-called rulership, it is not only distorted, but often the principle of popular sovereignty disappears. Behind the reformist cloak, the so-called reformist cloak, with which this proposal is dressing, it seems that a major governance model is planned again, with local parties and barons, and possibly with some overlapping, not all former colleagues, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u768	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u769	I'm finishing up with two words on asylum. The current provision - very well said by my colleague earlier - actually regulates the question of the automatic intervention of police forces in the case of crimes and crimes against life. And I wonder: If you exclude your ideological opposition to those students who express opposing views and complain or claim, if we exclude this political and ideological obsession, what other violations will be dealt with, which cannot be dealt with with in this particular, existing, legal context? Because we are listening to the right and the left to say things in the world, which has neither legal knowledge nor obviously knows the provision currently in force in the case of drug trafficking, which is in breach of the law. To what I remember the last time I read the narcotics law was and still is a felony. So why isn't he being persecuted outside Marseille, outside Tositsa, where drugs are actually being smuggled?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u770	The cops are in.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u771	It is persecuted on its own initiative, the provision of the law is very clear. The laws have a lot of...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u772	Your government, why didn't it do it so long?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u773	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u774	This is the good of the laws, that they have a very specific interpretation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u775	Mr. Hatzyannakis, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u776	It means, of course, that the police, if they see a felony being carried out, must, without inviting it, take action and arrests, whether they are in the university or in the university's basement, or on the university's roof. The current position is purely hypocritical, and that is why we are calling for it to be voted against. And I'm hanging up with one last.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u777	Why doesn't he arrest them in Marseille?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u778	That's where I've grown up. I've been a lawyer for too many years. Don't be afraid. That's where I went to college. I may not be Harvard's graduate, like most ministers in this particular government. I'm a graduate of the Athens Law School. That's where I went and no one narrowed my right to study and I'm going to deal with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u779	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u780	My son, though, studying in law school, restricts him! What you're saying is theories!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u781	Mr. Santorinios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u782	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill, I would say, is a monument to distortion of the popular mandate and manipulation of local societies. It is indeed the only inspiration that the provision of a partnership between two factions if one of them is the mayor or regional authority - we wish - without the need for planning convergence, without the need for all the consultants to agree. Even more undemocratic, however, is the ban on revoking the agreement. And if the mayor or the district mayor fails to comply with the agreement, what will happen? What's gonna happen? Will the will of the people who chose these? What about the consultants who will disagree with the partnership? Will they be found independent without the rights of organised minority? The quality of democracy, Minister, is judged by how it treats minorities. It seems that your democracy is not so qualitative. It's as much as practicability allows. On the altar of rulership, you are violating the people's command. Since you have not been able to do the evil, that is to say, genuinely express society through pluralism and mere analogy, you have decided to correct the mistake of the people, just like that, by distorting their mandate. That is why you have brought us into line with these regulations, in order to distort the genuine expression of democracy and to restore democratic decision-making bodies, such as the regional and municipal council, by means of a mock-up approach to the composition of the other bodies, the municipal and regional committees. Is it possible for you to transfer all the powers to the Financial Committees and to carry out and publish projects? Is it possible to transfer debt relief and debt regulation powers to the Economic Committees, regardless of any amount? And as if not all of this were enough, you are transferring control over supervised bodies to the Economic Commissions. How nice of you to do it! Even where you are able to debate municipal councils and express an alternative proposal - for example in the budget, in the technical programme, in the municipalities - you are demanding a document of feasibility from the municipal services. Which municipality is that going to happen? Who really believes that? That is where you are actually banning the opposite view. But we should go to the local communities. "KLITHENIS" tried to give a role and substance to local communities. With your settings you retrain from local councils and local presidents the opportunity to decide on the essential needs of their place and to make them rejoice to the mayor, to suggest, not to decide. They can't decide, they weren't voted on by the people! Have you visited villages that, after the last reform of KALIKARATI, have not even been able to change lamps in the square? That is exactly what you are bringing them back, canceling this important reform that we have done. And since I am from the Dodecanese, so that we can have a good question, really, what is this provision for the definition of mayor in island provinces, regardless of all regional consultants? Who's the one who doesn't like the district manager from a small province and wants to change him, put someone else in? We'll see about it very soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u783	What if he hasn't elected there?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u784	He's elected to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u785	All of them?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u786	All of them. I looked into it. However, for a regulation that you have about urban non-profit companies - because I know about which company it is, of which the Statute has expired - you must put retroactive effect from 1-1-2018, otherwise it is useless.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u787	We'll put from 1-7-2018, which will cover us. The law school will be here tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u788	She's covering it, yeah. But if you kept this fate for democracy in the OTAs, where you overrun yourself is the abolition of asylum. We understand your allergy to anything collective you can't control. That is why you are bringing this provision into the summer with the universities closed down. Through a constant influx of false news you have created a story aimed at asylum, the free movement of ideas within the institutions, unrestricted university research and the free expression of students and teachers. Why were you not content with the existing framework, which made the republican authorities responsible for calling the police in cases of infringement? And he also gave the possibility of self-interference in cases of felony. Mr. Hatzyannakis said it before. Drugs are a felony. There's no need for the dean authorities to call, the police are coming in. As far as ASEAN and what you've been talking about smuggling, so long, couldn't the dean authorities call the police? Was it that hard?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u789	Why don't you ask them?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u790	The answer, therefore, is why you want universities censoredly, subordinated to the market, degraded institutionalized and detached from society. You want students without political action, without concern, without voice, because you really want to substantiate the student movement, which has always been a pioneer in the struggles. But be sure that no method of you will prevent young people from opposing your hard neoliberal face. I would like to conclude with one question - I imagine he will answer it - to the Minister of Tourism. He had brought a very good arrangement in order to allow students of the Rhodes and Crete to take all the time. Why did this arrangement disappear? Had they not predicted the money to implement this arrangement? We need an answer. Ladies and gentlemen, with today's multi-project Express you really show that in the name of destiny you are ready to sacrifice democracy and the people's mandate, but also institutions that supported the struggles of the people in difficult times. The citizens judge you and we will be here to highlight your anti-institutional slips. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u791	Thank you, too. Mr Katsafandos has the floor from New Democracy. Mr Stylianides will be followed by New Democracy and we will close with Mr Marcus from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u792	Unfortunately, Mr President, because of its limited time, I will wrong several articles from the bill, but articles which are particularly important. For example, we will finally end up with the shame of cancer patients and people suffering from multiple sclerosis and their medications will no longer be supplied after too many hours on the line from the pharmacy of the EEA, but from their pharmacopoeia. Also, the reduction of the interest rate on those who enter the insurance fund arrangement from 5% to 3% and too many others, such as that they will end this dissatisfaction with pensioners and submit their applications electronically and they will not wait months and years for them to be granted pensions. I see, however, that opposition does not give space to the public debate and that it'saves the islands'. I don't see you talking about all this, I don't see you having any views on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u793	One hundred and eight articles you brought. How much can we say?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u794	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u795	So I will stand by the three articles that think that ideologically or around their clientele can gain some benefits. I'll start with Article 101. Ladies and gentlemen, what does the European directive which you have not implemented clearly tell us? It says clearly that the President and the members involved should not have a trace of political or party influence. I do not mean if anyone here in the Chamber believes that Mrs Thanos was not in the hard core of the government process followed by SYRIZA for four and a half years. Outside this Chamber any Greek citizen who asks will tell you that Mrs. Thanos was one of the Prime Minister's closest partners. So is the directive of the European Commission being destroyed, yes or no? That's what New Democracy comes in and does. Because you're telling us that we had a secret agenda when you put Mrs. Thanou President in the Competition Committee, what was the New Democracy saying in the election? Has he said that the next day will change it because the directive of the European Union is being circumvented? He said so. We didn't hide it. Everything we have said, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, which is why a month ago the Greek people gave us 40%, we come and make them one by one. What did we say when you went through SYRIZA's "KILLEN", ladies and gentlemen? We said it would be the first bill to change. That's what the current Prime Minister said. Sorry, it wasn't the first one, it was the third. And why do we do it? Are we doing this to strengthen the mayors who were elected? Oh, no. The simple analogue? And open a parentheses on this. Just proportional in two rounds doesn't exist. What was implemented in municipal elections was not just proportional. It was a very good legacy, so that mortal minority figures that you supported in the municipal elections - and that was reflected in the results - could try to play a regulator role. Or, if you want, apply the theory that what we can't win, we're just breaking it down. That's what you're doing. And we are not coming to help mayors, ladies and gentlemen, with these arrangements that we are doing so that the municipalities can submit a technical programme, that they can spend a budget, that the Committee on Quality of Life and the Economic Committee can be productive. They offer services to the citizen, because this will enable the garbage to be collected, so projects can be made, so that the nursery stations will remain open and it will not be a mutilated local government. And we are witnessed by the results of the municipal elections, and then for all this famous consultation, which you thought would be between winners and losers, about how the municipalities could be governed. More brutal blackmail has not been done. Go back to your districts. It cannot have been done in our region alone. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Excuse me, Mr. President. Give me some more time. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not doing anything different from what we have said to the Greek people by election. And we don't do it so we can satisfy our mayors. We do so in order to be able to serve our fellow citizens, the citizen and to enable the municipalities and regions to carry out their duties. However, I shall proceed to Rule 64. Allow me to say that today, as Article 64 was tabled, what it does is to strengthen academic freedoms in the Greek universities, in these many educational establishments. What some people deliberately want to present as a abolition of asylum, only to satisfy their own ideas, ladies and gentlemen, and to try to sell political editions to the offenders and the bahalakis, to all those who have destroyed, have plundered the Greek universities, have destroyed public property, have stood in front of research and technology. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And here's Mr. Drits. Mr. Dritsa, do you remember what happened on the Polytechnic anniversary last year, when you and your colleagues went with SYRIZA and half Parliament's police force to testify a wreath? They let you in? They didn't let you in.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u796	I didn't think I'd ask you to yell at the MATs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u797	Does it provide an honor for this country to have such situations within the Greek universities? Mr. Santorinius acted like he was in another country. He says, "Why don't the police go get them?" How's it going, Mr. Santorinier? You're telling us we want to squeeze the student movement. 50% of the SGP is on it. The student party that comes to the New Democracy takes 50%. The student party that comes to SYRIZA how much does it get, Mr. Santorinier? There isn't. Who should we sneeze?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u798	There's 50% of the SGP. Why can't he solve it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u799	Do you think there is a problem of democracy in the country? Do you think there is a problem of free expression in the country? Oh, no. It's just with this law, with this article, we're trying to put an end to it, a barrier to all those who forbid all other ideas except theirs. That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen. We're trying to put an end to these, because next to the kids who go and study are the drug dealer and sell drugs. This is the reality, ladies and gentlemen, that you are all wondering why the Greek police have not entered the Greek universities. How'd he get in? You let them in?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u800	You have the Secretary General.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u801	The chief of police only knew how to do, Mr. Santorinier and Mr. Polakis, is to come to Alexis Tsipras' election gatherings.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u802	Finish it, Mr. Katasafandos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u803	That's the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u804	Mr. Tsouvalas was four years Chief.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u805	I'm talking about Mr. Andrikopoulou. I'm talking about the next one, Mr. Santorinier.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u806	Finish it, Mr. Katasafandos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u807	Secretary-General, you have him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u808	Well, ladies and gentlemen, get out of the ideas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u809	Let go of the ideas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u810	Get out of your ideas. Asylum served a need and was useful for times that were black for our country's history.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u811	Your ancestors. The black days were your ancestors.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u812	Nowadays, though, with a cover for the asylum, some are tanning the country's history.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u813	Black times were your ancestors.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u814	Please, Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u815	Let me close, Mr President, to say this. I have also tabled an amendment calling, because of the delay in the Urban Planning, for it to be able to submit its reports and for it to be demolished during the summer period, instead of thirty days that are the deadline, to move to sixty-five days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u816	Thank you, too. Mr Stylianides has the floor from New Democracy. And we'll hang up with Mr. Marcus.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u817	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, because many unfounded arguments have been put forward during the debate, I would like to focus on three points, and to present my opinion as well. Firstly, with regard to the unconstitutionality of the bill discussed this morning, at the point mentioned by local government, I would like to say that the principle of subsidiarity is an integral part of the hard core of European law, which, according to Article 28 of the Constitution, has at least the same standard as the Constitution. Therefore, this principle is being shaken together when they cannot make decisions close to the citizen. At the moment, that is, the bill that we are voting on comes to cure the unconstitutionality of the law that you voted on in the previous period, which is certain that during the early stages of its implementation it will effectively block the principle of subsidiarity, that is, the right to decide to be brought closer to the citizen, or many times by the citizen himself. And it will shake this right to the hard core, because it will not allow the system that you have voted on to take decisions. So this is still being cured before the anti-constitutionality of the old draft law is actually manifested, which is now being ratified in this provision. It's known that SYRIZA didn't control it. It is also known at the moment that we are preparing to remedy these gaps and omissions that you, on your legislative initiative the previous period, have left behind. The second point is asylum. It was clear - it was said by other speakers - that asylum was of a flag when it was passed in 1982, in a way that it was emphatically specialising the relevant article of the Constitution that protected academic freedom and made it more important to give a signal to the Greek society, which had just come out of the dictatorship and made its first steps towards deepening democracy. So I ask this House this: is there any doubt about stability, maturity and the quality of our democracy? So what is today the special reason why we should create islands enclosed by the rest of society? The rights of freedom of expression and, above all, the right to academic freedom in this respect should be protected as a whole and not only within a particular area. It is a degeneration of the asylum institution to be regarded as a spatial asylum, and I think that, in fact, the decision that is being taken today is actually coming to catalyse this degeneration, which has led to the asylum, illegality, crime, asylum, which really hit on its hard core the right to freedom of expression in the university space, where the freedom to operate in practice should be the most important thing. We had seen pre-refreshments in their offices, teacher beatings, student beatings, drug trafficking, crime. Parents sent to many - not all of them luckily, but to some - universities their children - in school, in college, in the hall, in the amphitheater - and they didn't know if the children came back.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u818	Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u819	In the past, of course, we could guarantee this, Mr Polakis, because then there were political groups on the polls who fought democratically in a different way.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u820	And vibrant!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u821	Now, however, this check has also been lost, because the place within the amphitheatres, unfortunately, in many cases it is not the students themselves or the student movement, but the exogenous factors. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I would like a minute, Mr President. Thirdly, and I would like to thank the government and the Prime Minister on this, because he has kept a commitment he had made in election, without calculating the political costs - it is the abolition of the fourth law in Patras. I say this because, firstly, there are a number of educational arguments supported by most of the country's lawyers and, of course, by the legal schools, that at the moment what was needed was more to strengthen the legal schools that exist in Greece and improve the quality of legal studies, rather than create an inflation in schools, which would weaken already underfunded and licensed by teachers many times existing schools. That's the educational reasons. But there is also a national reason, which is related to my own country, Thrace, with the fate of the Democritus University, which was undoubtedly - I would say - the most successful, long-term and cross-party investment made by the Greek state in the extreme Thrace. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This university, unfortunately, has been abandoned in recent years. From the 18,000 million funding, it fell to 5,6. The liberation of the transcripts has been licensed by students and teachers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u822	In 2014 this. And then he went up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u823	I've been talking about the last few years. In recent years they have been all about your period and a piece of the oldest period. I don't blame anyone. I want to talk about the substance of the matter. The Democritus University, which had come to be the third best in Greece, has in recent years become the eighth university. If such inflation and the dispersion of schools without a national strategy were to take place, then there was a risk of further decline, particularly of the Legal School, which, in a sensitive region of the country, in the Rhodope Prefecture, played a decisive role in spiritual armour, in demographic support and in the development prospects of this region, which is fully linked to national security. For these reasons, therefore, I would like to thank the Prime Minister, the Government and the Minister of Education for daring and taking this decision, canceling one - I would dare say - rather the election election decision of the previous government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u824	Thank you, too. Mr. Marcos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u825	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am the last, but not the last, so I will also be brief and clear. I am pleased, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, that you have the courtesy to listen to me while you are finished. First of all, I should like to clarify something which I have heard all day from the six of the eight speakers of the New Democracy: 'Trade, medicines and medicines'. Obviously, there is some non paper that has been given to speakers and reproduces this continuous message. We have nothing to discuss here. What I want to clarify, however, because I am a doctor, I am a professor of medicine at the University of Patras and I am President at the Central Board of Health, is one: Medicines in cancer patients are given free of charge from 2016 to insured and uninsured. That's the first. Secondly, with regard to multiple sclerosis, the previous SYRIZA government has launched the registry, which has had many problems, due to the protection of personal data, so that this is in the final stage. So don't worry about it. And, finally, the existing reference to the bill is completely unclear, it does not say that they will go from drugs to drugs, because there are many problems about what can happen. The EPPY will take them and give them the chance if the EPPY fails and decides. So let's talk about more. Now, I'm actually coming in. Mr President, I will have your tolerance because I am the last. One month we saw the four axes of the New Democracy initiatives. And because by nailing the lion, believe me, I am deeply convinced that they will be in all its rulership: Firstly, the state party state of New Democracy, because the non-party state for the New Democracy is the shortest joke. Secondly, the service of commitments to economic operators. We have talked a lot about the Greek, we will now come to the abolition of the two-year term in the PES. I'll come back. Third, communal tricks and tricks. We played two days with Paul, one day with Paul, the next is asylum, because that's what this is about. And, fourthly, some unclassified initiatives. I've put on them, Mr. Stylianides, and the abolition of Patras law. I'm afraid you're helping me now. For uncategorized people there's always a cause behind it, just time shows it. So let us now come after the party state, which, in the debate yesterday and the day before, was exhausted, to serve as a commitment. The first speeches on the LAMDA DEVELOPMENT were made and debated. We're coming to this bill. The two-year term of the ESDP graduates in universities is abolished. Eight universities had prepared programmes to receive ESDP graduates who would have access to technological education. Why? Minister, you have the government's misfortune to make the German number.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u826	I've been doing it since morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u827	You're young too, so you know. I shall therefore turn to a second plural to the Minister, Mrs Kyrameo, as present. Here, then, the Minister offers an excellent service to the private IEK. It's clear that we don't have to see starting points. It enables the people who would go to the universities for two years to go to private IEK. Now we're going to the next, third direction, where the asylum is. We shall all agree on academic freedom in terms of wording. I don't think we have any arguments. What's the point? It is that the interventions and the bracelets - we agree on this - in the academic environment is a disruption of flexibility. It is about not treating this disorder of discipline with a greater disorder of discipline, which will be the entry of the police at the university. That's the risk. So we have an asymmetrical orientation when it comes to resolving the problem. In the second paragraph of the article, there is an explicit wording which says 'against anyone'. What does that mean? It gives a new ideological load to academic freedom. What does it mean in practice? I say it without being a lawman. Besides, the Minister of Justice is a doctor. What does that mean? It means that in the present situation the offender of the crime can be persecuted. The felony has been said by my colleague. Many teachers have sued, people who have exercised physical or psychological violence have gone to court. It is now a question of the police getting in and taking them to the self-defense, that is to say, it is a procedural regulation and nothing more. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let's come to see if the dean authorities did their job. The question is: Will the police intervene, according to your visions? He won't interfere. Repeatedly, the Republican authorities have been called upon to intervene in matters of infraction and the police chief went in and said: "I, Mrs. Dean, don't go in, because here a student slipping the stairs and hitting her head, became the worst. I am not going in.’ He didn't listen to the order. So the problem is more complex. In 2009, Panoussis, the former Minister, was excluded and probably raped by hoodlers. Do you know which law was in force then? He said that anyone who has been covered in his face is committing a felony offence and nothing happened in 2009. And another thing for 2011, because there is enough pride here - the colleagues from KINAAL are missing - for the terrible percentage that Mrs Diamantopoulou's law took. Let us let it be that it was a conciliation with the Samara government at the time, which presided over the upcoming memorials. In the study of the University of Macedonia, which one of the majority colleagues submitted, during the first year of implementation of Mrs Diamantopoulou's law, infractionality made a record. Ninety-five cases. It has failed completely and it has not only failed to do so. He also failed in the councils, which is why the Minister of New Democracy then changed their own law.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u828	But don't go too far, Doctor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u829	I'll be done in a minute, believe me. I come at a very critical point, which I would ask you to think very seriously and is not a rhetoric. If I am in a university, in a school, in a lesson I say 'I am a doctor and I teach this antibiotic, the other antibiotic, this medicine', and I come and say that this medicine of a company is not the right one, is someone from there entitled to say that I am slandering and creating a problem with the company and immediately calling the police to intervene? He's entitled to the new law. If a person in a lesson in theoretical schools or in theology speaks of religion, of God’s existence and says that there is no God, is a religious person there entitled to consider himself affected and insulted and call on the police? They're right. If someone touches on a symbol, someone is entitled to say that I have a problem, because this thing is subtle and so forth.Huh? So much has been done in theatrical performances, in courses. The responsibility lies with the university institutions. It's very difficult to blame them all, but we need to get them a greater part of what they've taken. They don't take it. The Rectors' Conference has not come to meet our committee and there is one - let us say this - deliberate distortion. The other Bureau, namely the President, who, in turn, has the responsibility of coordination, which happened to be and to say that the Rectors' Conference is a good one. The Rectors' Synod didn't show up. Finally, I would like to thank you very much for the report, Mr Stylianides, on the law of Patras. Withdrawal of her founding I had classified her as unclassified. I understood here that this is - and I am gladly, because I considered it much worse in my mind - for a provision - leave the national issues, it is not a national issue - of the New Democracy, perhaps to your face, perhaps to the friendly environment of the Democrat University, but Mr Mitsotakis had said in an election that it is a gift from Mr Tsipras to Achaia. In other words, an entire organisation, an entire preparation, an entire plan is sacrificed in the field of a micro-party feasibility. It's a shame. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u830	Thank you very much, Doctor. Ladies and gentlemen, on tomorrow's day we have two objectives: firstly, that the roll-call vote be held at 15.30 p.m. and, secondly, that they should speak as many Members as possible of today's list as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u831	That means they won't talk about thirty Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u832	Yes, but you did double-time, Mr. Drizza. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-07-S1-commons.u833	The meeting for Thursday, August 8, 2019, at 9.30', on the subject of the House's work, on the subject of legislation: the continuation of the debate and the vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Interior: "Consolidations of the Ministry of Interior, provisions on digital governance and other urgent issues".
