ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the special agenda, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question issue to the House on Friday 15 March 2019. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 415/12-32019 by Congressman Pireos of New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Changes in PPC tariffs". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 419/12-32019 by F' Vice President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Georgios Lambroulis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Let us stop the installation of wind parks in the mountainous peaks of Agraphs". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No. 418/12-3-2019 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr. Ioannis Delis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, about the ministerial decision: "Insert students into musical studies". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 400/4-32019 by the Deputy Minister of Attica, New Democracy, Athanasios Bura, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: 'Reopening of the General School of Magulas as an exam centre'. 3. The Question by Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister for Migration Policy on the subject: "Appointment of a sectoral secretary of the Ministry of Migration Policy". 4. The 395/1-32019 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Association of Centrals Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The new ministerial decision to introduce students into the music departments of the country is blocking the dreams of students". 5. The question raised by Mr Panagiotis Kouroublis, Member of Parliament, on the subject of 'Readaptation fees for large hydroelectric power stations', under number 405/5-3-2019 of the Athens Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Panagiotis Kouroublis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy. 6. Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his answer. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Under number 399/4-3-2019, a topical question by the Independent Member of Parliament, Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos, to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the risk analysis report for 2019 of Frontex showing that migration pressure remains high at the external borders of the European Union. 8. Under No 388/26-2-2019, a topical question by Congressman I Piraeus, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The government is proclaiming a selective partition of municipalities with micro-party criteria, just before the municipal elections, causing confusion and inconvenience." 9. The question asked by MP Evros of New Democracy, Anastasios Prize to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Proclamation of a post as Professor of Shiro-Beligomia at the Democritus University of Thrace". 10. Under No 279/15-1-2019, the current question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Direct actions to introduce Crete into the transport equivalent". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 4659/3-1-2019 of the Deputy Drama of the New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the solution of the partnership of the Democritus University of Thrace (IMP) - Eastern Macedonia and Thrace (AMTH). Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Parliament's decisions: debate and decision on the proposals for revision of the Constitution in accordance with Rules 110 of the Constitution and 119 of the Rules of Procedure (second vote). In accordance with Rules 110 of the Constitution and 119 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the Parliament's decision finding the need to revise the Constitution and specifying in particular the revised provisions is taken by two votes abstaining from one month (1) at least. Under Rule 119(6) of the Rules of Procedure, these two votes are roll-call votes and the second vote concerns the provisions adopted during the first vote and the majority laid down in Rule 110(2) and (4) of the Constitution. The purpose of today's second vote is the proposed provisions of the Constitution, which brought together in the first vote on 14 February 2019, 151 and more votes. The provisions which in the first vote had fewer than 151 votes were not put to the vote as not adopted during the first vote. With regard to the organisation of the debate, according to the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 7 March 2019, I propose that the procedure be as follows: To place rapporteurs and special speakers, as well as the members of the Bureau of the Revision Committee of the Constitution for fifteen (15) minutes, the Parliamentary Representatives for 12 (12) minutes, the responsible Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights for eighteen (18) minutes. They may also speak, if they so wish, in accordance with Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure. Then, after the end of the debate, a roll-call vote will be followed by a roll-call vote, which will be held on the revised provisions. Does the House agree with this proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Konstantinos Dousinas, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Have a nice day. Good morning, my dear colleagues. And it will be a good day for both Parliament and parliamentary democracy. Because today we are reaching the end of the first stage of the constitutional review, a process that began in 2016 with the unprecedented social consultation, continued in plenary and in the Revision Committee and now ends in this first half. The eighteen meetings of the committee were characterized by a high level of discussion which often reminded the university conference, but also by respect for the opposite view. The highest parliamentary procedure has also been an expression of political culture. I would therefore like to express my thanks to the Bureau and the Secretariat of the Committee, Mr Michael Spourdalakis, our President, Mr Nikolaos Paradise, Mr George Katrougalos, Mr Konstantinos Tsouulas and to all the other general and special rapporteurs of the parties. The Minutes of the House illustrate an important consultation that will be a point of reference for our country's law and policy. Some pragmatic evidence: Today, as the President said, we have forty-three proposals to vote which received 151 or more votes on 14 February. Thirty-two of them are coming from SYRIZA. But most of them also took votes from other parties or individual MPs. Four were launched by the New Democracy and seven are complementary proposals by individual Members. At the beginning of the procedure the New Democracy renounced it and threatened with non-participation. However, he was forced to participate. Today, at the end of the process, I think we can say that we have won a great success with the adoption of a wide range of important provisions. As I said, in the half of this important parliamentary democracy, a great victory for our Parliament and our citizens. The 2001 and 2008 revisions were labelled as invalid and left a small institutional footprint. On the other hand, today's proposal with the few but important consensus and the many ideological and political divergences has, I think, gained a momentum. It will leave a strong institutional imprint for the elections and the next Review House. The differences, controversy, are not surprising, of course. The Constitution expresses the balance of social and political forces at the time of the adoption of its review and interpretation. These institutional acts are not ideological, worthy or politically neutral. They are a field of confrontation between conflicting ideologies, rival social interests. They are, in other words, at the core of politics. The proposals of SYRIZA and the New Democracy outline Greece tomorrow. They give a glaring picture of the two projects that will collide: on the one hand, the vision of a progressive Greece of democracy and social justice and, on the other, the continuity of the old, business as usual, inequality and social indifference. The Greek Constitution of many, the social majority, contrasts with that of the few, the traditional and the new elite. We had a detailed discussion of the various proposals, our own and others, in the previous plenary. Today I will focus on their coherent and progressive philosophy, on SYRIZA's plan to restore our society. Two values go through it and make the proposal coherent: equality and democracy. Our proposals have four axes: for the social state, the deepening of democracy and social stability, rights and participatory democracy and, finally, institutional modernisation. The first axis refers to the relaunch of the social state and the recovery of neoliberalism. The social state was the greatest conquest of post-war Europe, a marriage of opportunity between capitalism and democracy, between markets and social justice as mechanisms for distributing social wealth. It was a result and victory of the left and trade unions, but also a concession of capital to acquire a human face and thus survive. With the end of the Cold War, however, capital began to be released from the constraints of democracy, social justice fell. The economy is being imposed on markets, governments are not calling for the recognition of citizens, but for the love of markets and lenders. In Greece, the social state has always been weak. The years of austerity retreated more. Our proposal confirms the symbolic importance of the social state and strengthens its material presence. We are introducing, strengthening a range of social rights and public goods into health and social welfare. We protect work in various ways. We guarantee a decent standard of living. We are forbidden to privatise water and energy. We are giving the threatened social rights a regulatory density and we are making them judicially, as are individual and civil rights. For us, social rights are not secondary, nor are they merely a safety net for our poor fellow citizens, an extension of charity. Their implementation and constitutionalisation are part and parcel of the gradual social transformation towards equality and democracy, towards socialism with democracy. In contrast, the New Democracy defines its social policy by constitutionalising balanced budgets, free competition, by seeking to create private speculative universities. It integrates neoliberalism into the Constitution, as required by Mr Shoeble and the International Monetary Fund. 'If it is not balanced', we were told in committee, 'whether wages and pensions will be cut'. Mr Mitsotakis recently stated that inequalities are based on human nature. Of course, they're growing up all the time. In 2018, in Oxfam, eight people owned 50% of the world's wealth. For us, inequality is not a natural condition. It is the most unnatural result of capitalist greed. Obligation - and of course the Left - is to constantly reduce inequalities, aiming at abolishing them. Speaking of rights, we meet a strange paradox in the proposals of the New Democracy. The constitutionalisation of neoliberalism goes hand in hand with liberation - to create a neo-liberalism - by abandoning political liberalism and the European acquis. The rights - individual, political and social - continue. They are three successive generations. Individuals guarantee freedom, political participation, the social material conditions of autonomy. Each category of rights, each generation, contains a more developed form of freedom and equality. Today we are re-emphasizing social rights, but we are also extending civil rights. The most characteristic is the extension of the ban on gender discrimination, gender identity and sexual orientation and recognition of the equal pay for equal work regardless of age. 'Why does that matter?' Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has put into ‘These are international conventions and the ECHR’. But we know that, while human rights claim economic implementation, societies have historically ruled out and are still banning large categories of people from human status because they have the wrong race, colour or religion, because they do not follow the views of the majority. We also know that citizens' status and not humanity can guarantee respect for rights. That is why it is necessary when homophobia, sexism, gynaecology poison our society, as has happened so many times, even yesterday with the attack on the center with people with HIV, to state in a constitutional way our disgrace over any such discrimination. The New Democracy disagrees. It drafts economic liberalism, but abandons its political form. It refuses rights that are respected throughout Europe. Here is the conflict between austerity policies and the ghosts of the far right. Secondly, the enlargement of representative democracy. The malfunction here has a name. The post-democratic or post-democratic treaty. "Societies are complex" they tell us. "Problems are difficult. The class struggle is over. Only experts and technocrats have the right responses to economic, development and environmental problems." So material and political powers are removed and transferred to non-parliamentary audit bodies, independent authorities, constitutional and other special courts, to strong Presidents of the Republic. Many of the so-called institutional counterweights are political burdens. She's being irritated and alienated by the citizens. Measures are needed to strengthen the position of policy and the dignity of policies. The most important strengthening of the representative authority is the establishment of the proportional electoral system in the national and self-government elections. We have introduced it in legislation, now we have it in constitutional terms. Because the most important counterweight to government self-resistance and all-power is precisely the creation of multi-party coalition and consensual governments, which is guaranteed by simple analogues. In the same context of respect for the government's policy and stability, there are proposals that dissociate Parliament from the failure to elect the President of the Republic. The proposal gives us a long time in the House to formulate the necessary consents by a majority of 3/5 and a direct election, without the dissolution of the House. In the same direction is the proposal for a constructive vote of censure, as is the duty to be the Prime Minister elected as parliamentarians and the limit of three terms for Members. We must stop the logic of family rule and dynasty, we must end the 'all are the same' or 'always the same', which hurts our democracy. The problem of binding in relation to the president's election will analyse it, at least on the side of bindingity, more generally Nikos Paraskeviopoulos. However, the debate on these days highlighted the work of the Constitution from Opposition. The New Democracy only cares about the president's election process to prevent the 'right-wing parentheses', as he said when he supposedly framed us. The blatant anti-constitutional proposal that the President of the Republic should finally be elected by a hundred and fifty Members, namely the government majority, shows the complete indifference to institutional correctness. The "left parenthesis" was a culmination of your own imagination and undemocratic practice. It was, of course, a great parentheses. It'll be over in four years. SYRIZA has renounced the logic of the 'right-wing parentheses' and with the proposal to change the president's election and with the commitment to vote for the present President, Prokopi Pavlopoulos, an excellent President of the Republic, in 2020. You've become, I'm afraid, Don Cinderella. Make shadings with unexistent enemies to overshadow the many real arguments. With SYRIZA's so-called colpo grosso 32, your private vits and fears are trying to transform into public virtues. Hypocrisy is the tax that evil pays to virtue. The third objective is to strengthen the participation of citizens. "All powers come from the people," says Article 1 and reference to popular sovereignty is mainly symbolic. But developments in the production process and new technologies make the limits of representation visible. That is why we are proposing coordination of the democratic principle in the way of work and skills of young people. We are proposing to extend popular participation by holding a referendum, with a people's initiative on a critical national issue or a draft legislation, as well as the introduction of the popular legislative initiative. These measures bring the people to the fore, but they also bring dialogue and consultation to the people. The refusal of the New Democracy reveals its basic instinct and fear, the fear of the people, the terror of many. Fourthly, it is institutional modernisation for Articles 3 and 86. Mr. Paradise will say more. I would just like to say about Article 3 and the proposals on the political oath that what we are trying to do is to make it clear that the prevailing religion does not religiously define the Greek state. Religious neutrality means that there is no state religion, it means that the state cannot match the religious part of society, no matter how large it is. Religious freedom and worship in modern democracies are not the work of the state but the right of the citizen. These are the conquests of the French Revolution and the 18th century. Escape to the future, then, we do, returning to Enlightenment. We become newer, modern, while we are in mature postmodernism. Opposition remains in the pre-eternal age, confusing the statehood with private faith. I will not say anything about Rule 86, except something which has been repeatedly said to the committee and which has not been heard more widely. Repeated members of the Opposition have exercised an institutional blackmail: 'If you do not vote for this or the other article', mainly in 16, 'we will not vote in 86'. Of course they couldn't do that. They were forced to vote in 86 and the Greek Parliament, I believe, in its large majority, will give a message that politicians should be subjected to the same institutional and legal procedure as other citizens. I want to say two last words about the relationship between you and the House of Review. It is an issue which Mr Paradise will be more concerned with. I want to make this very reasonable observation. If the first House does not really commit to anything, neither in the direction nor in anything else in the next, why did we have eighteen committee meetings, as we mentioned before? Why did we discuss these matters with such intimacy, in such detail, in such a way that? Is it just for the show? Just so we can get through our time? It is a complete absurdity. Of course, a large part of the theory supports binding and rulings of special courts. But irrationality is perfect when what we are told is that there is no binding. All we have to do is, at the beginning of the procedure, to record what articles need to be reviewed, what articles there is a need to revise and then to vote. Why should we have these eighteen meetings? I'm done. What does New Democracy propose to us? An opportunityful shopping list of provisions without internal cohesion, without a worthwhile project. Some do not fit in the Constitution, others are self-evident, others are unclear. But the real controversy is not in Article 32. It's been the last few days in the middle of this sketch. It's something that no one had said. It is in the economic and social model of the two proposals. On the one hand, financial corsets and internal devaluation, a programme that has been tested and failed in Greece and which, even now, most Europeans have begun to abandon it. The constitutionalization of neoliberalism and austerity. For us on the left, our programme means extending democracy and social rights aimed at gradual social transformation. In these two models, the progressive and conservative concept of the future of the country, the constitution of the many and the social majority, with that of the few and the various elites, will be opposed. I urge you to vote in favour of all the proposals that are before us for a Greece of democracy and progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u4	Thank you. Before I call Mr. Tasouula in Stepma to make two announcements: New Democracy MP Constantine Skrekas seeks permission from 17-3-2019 to 24-3-2019 from abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u5	The House therefore approved the requested permission. There is also a letter from the First Vice-President of Parliament and MP of the Democratic Association Mr. Dimitrios Kremastinos to the President of the Parliament, which is registered in the Minutes. Anyone who's interested can get a copy to study it. [[The above-mentioned letter of the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Dimitrios Kremastinos, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament is presented here.]] Mr. Tasula, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, the attempt at constitutional review is a rare parliamentary procedure, due to the fact that our Constitution - fortunately - is strict. It can be done not every day. The last one was eleven years ago, and the next one I fear it can be done after another ten years, but it may be saved. These time parameters demonstrate the seriousness and gravity of the revision, which obviously has nothing to do with the designations that are being made to political opponents, based on current political or party struggles or uncertainties. They are cultured struggles or uncertainties - to be fair with the previous colleague - but they have nothing to do with constitutional reform. It is also not relevant to the need for constitutional review the large number of articles proposed, which survived the first month of the vote and which passed the 151 votes in relation to the country's real problems. Why? The real problems of the country are not related to all those verbal excesses and verbal aids offered in the Constitution in view of the revision proposals. The Prime Minister is prosperous, and you are all stuck in a verbal exaggeration, describing the economy as his prerogative, his cause, describing the Prespecies Agreement as a masterpiece. This epidemic of verbal exaggeration did not prevent you from avoiding it and you have fully subjugated it, influenced by yesterday's excesses of the Prime Minister who declared, listen - listen - an invitation to the first cycle of the great and bold institutional section that the review allegedly called. Let us see the Review on the basis of what you are proposing, but let us also see what you are not proposing, because the Review cannot be judged only by those who have survived the votes, but is judged by those who have not survived. I would remind Parliament, but also the Greek citizens who are following us, that in this Review - because you have not shown your anti-neoliberal feud or your opposition, but you have not shown the grounded perception that is imposed - they do not go for revision of provisions relating to political stability, namely the pursuit of four years and the dissolution of the House, beyond the issue of the President of the Republic. We have, as you know, proposed the abolition of the misuse of the House's dissolution on a major national issue and you have not accepted it. What neoliberal, what do we want, what elite project dictates the undermining of the introduction of political stability? None. All of this shows that you are irreversible in relation to your familiarity with you, where you will soon be placed again, at the very minority rate that you will win. And I mean "large minority" not as a contradictory expression, but to show the electoral plunge that awaits you in May and whenever the political elections take place. In fact, even since the Review you have not understood what the country needs. You have exploited and exploited the anger of the Greek people for the economic hardship of recent years, but the privilege of the government that has been democratically assigned to you - because whether it was awarded with anger or awarded with indignation, the vote was democratically assigned to SYRIZA - so you did not exercise this privilege of government for the benefit of the country. Today, because you have no achievements to suggest and would achieve a proper review, you will again end up in contradictions, enclosures and divisions. So you prevent government stability. You prevent improvements, because you have rejected the environmental aspect of higher education, about justice, about fiscal stability, about avoiding retroactive taxation, about improving public administration. As all these areas are perfect and do not need radical improvement, starting from the verbal wording of the Constitution. I do not pretend that I consider the Salvation Constitution, but the Constitution could be the institutional trigger of all the improvements that the Greek people are asking for and the country is deprived of because of your vote beforehand on the issues of education and on the issues of administration and justice and the economy and the environment. This revision, with the vote of SYRIZA Members, was limited to four categories which I could describe as unnecessary, chaotic category, the category of off-site and time-consuming proposals and those that have necessarily been made because the circumstances impose it: Religious neutrality, for which you are taking it, is the desecration of unnecessary. Article 13 goes beyond religious neutrality and establishes the absolute freedom of religious conscience. Therefore to propose to Article 3 that it is religiously neutral the state is unnecessary and verbalistic, overthrows a tradition of centuries, shows hostility to the prevailing religion, which is not the imposed religion. It is the prevailing religion and the term is descriptive and historical and we must respect it because it existed before the establishment of the Greek state. Even the constitutions of the Ionian Islands, which preceded the Greek Constitutions - that is, Epidaurus, Troizina and Astros - even these constitutions, talked about the prevailing religion. So, to make a demonstration of modernism, you overthrow a historical descriptive tradition of respect for the prevailing religion of Orthodoxy in Greece and insult the religious feeling with the supposed neutrality, which - I repeat - is guaranteed by the above. Unnecessary is what you are voting on and suggesting in relation to the strengthening of social rights in Articles 21 and 22 of welfare, health, insurance and work. And you're saying it's unnecessary. Let me "express" the elite! By the way, I wanted to tell you in relation to the elite to suggest it to me a little, to go to introduce myself, because she never recognized me as her representative. Chris Woodhouse in his book "The apple of Eridos" that describes Greece after the release and all the hardship of the country after the 1944s to 50s speaks of the factors that played a role in Greece at the time and, when he reaches the point of the army, says that the armed forces were committed to the establishment - you would say to the elite - only that they saw no establishment appreciate their devotion. So it's the establishment in Greece, it's a mercury state. Honestly, I would like to convince you whether I could - and I cannot help you - that is forbidden in constitutional terms - that the concept of establishment in Greece has more to do with the state-owned entrepreneurship, which you have also referred to - I do not exclude anyone - but is established in the sense that you imagine does not exist in Greece. And I feel a little like the army of the period that Woodhouse describes, that I support the establishment, only there is no establishment to recognize my support! I am sorry for the degradation of this theory, but I wish we had a place in Greece in the sense of the health that exists in many countries, because you prevent it from being rejected by the rejection of Article 16, which is not only about private universities, but also about the schools where it could be acquired in the country by self-creational people who have the ability through education to defeat their destiny. These model schools we propose that you should be made in every region and prevented from doing so, because you do not want the children of poor families to be able to enjoy high education in accordance with their qualifications and to do so in the good sense of establishment, defeating their destiny. The left, however, obviously wants people to be plunged into their hardship so that they can fish from the victims of the hard voters with their allowances, while we want everyone to be able to defeat their destiny and not serve an elite, which you, for reasons of the envy of the audience constantly pointing out, even catch someone who tells you: “Why should there be an elite and I be not? Let me vote for those who hate the elite that I did not become in my life." It's not that simple. You therefore prevent a serious review from taking place, proposing social rights in an unnecessary manner, and you yourself prove that it is unnecessary in your rapporteur's report, in which I am told that the necessary number of Members will never sign the parliamentary majority report. You are the first party, perhaps because of these objections in your parliamentary group - I had not noticed that - that you proposed a 50-vote review, in other words those required by the Constitution. Fifty votes of SYRIZA MPs, forty-nine of SYRIZA and Ms. Megalo-Economics, in fact, who supported your proposal, which is unprecedented, because it usually has a festive character when you believe it in depth and overall. So you say in your rapporteur's report that these rules of social rights you are protecting are already resulting from the current wording of the Constitution's provision, which, especially in terms of the right to appeal to arbitration, has been confirmed in law by a decision of the Council of State. Therefore, ‘our proposal aims to confirm and make any undeniable rules from now on’. And you say below that "with our proposal on social rights we seek to guarantee fundamental and structural characteristics of the insurance system, as has been historically shaped and have been fully confirmed by the legislator and jurisprudence". In other words, you have not made a proposal to revise the Constitution, you are making an unnecessary proposal to interpret the Constitution, but it was unnecessary and you are saying so with your own words. In addition to the unnecessary provisions you also have chaotic provisions by proposing four new kinds of referendum and you have other chaotic provisions, because you are proposing the constitutional introduction of simple proportionalness and suggesting referendums by you who refused to vote on the masterpiece, as the Prime Minister said, of the Prespecies Agreement. There are also provisions that are out of place and time - such as the elite in the Albion, Mr Colleague, to which you have lived: 'Out of touch' - and proposals out of place and time, such as being a Member of the Prime Minister, and nothing else, such as having three terms of order, after a break of three more and then a break. But you say that the three terms must be successive and each one must have achieved two thirds of the four-year period, which means that you are not actually limiting the terms. You are simply giving a headline for limiting Members' term of office for the public, which is unfavourable to the parliamentary status, and the crisis has caused several opposing attitudes to the electorate and you think that this will satisfy those who say it is only the three hundred to the country's suffering. You have some provisions that you could not avoid, nor Article 62, or Article 86. No, no one could avoid them. I would remind you that 13 years ago when the then ordinary Member of Parliament, Mrs Mitsotakis, attempted to change Rule 86, for which no one was concerned at the time of the vulnerability to change, there were barely seven votes instead of the 50 votes needed to propose. So we have a review which will essentially send to the next House the remains of a substantial debate, the remains of a real need, and the next majority will be called upon to weigh them, which is clear to you what will be and in vain to prevent not the outcome of the next vote, but the extent of the next result. The extent of your defeat you're trying to manage with what you're doing from now on. You don't rule the country, you manage your defeat. So the remnants of the constitutional review to be sent to the next House will be chaotic, unnecessary and timeless provisions with few exceptions and the next majority will be called upon, the majority of the New Democracy and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis to weigh on whether the remnants of this review effort are worthy of turning into a revision or going to an existing procedure, which will also give real weight to the proposal to revise all the articles that you have not dared to propose in the name of a alleged hostility towards neoliberalism and so on. Rule 32 on the election of the President of the Republic seems to be sent by a generous majority to the next House if I can study you, but I will not be surprised and fail to predict you. And I want you to know that your behavior in this article is interesting, not on the basis of the globe trick and all, because it was obviously no trick, it was an existing position...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u7	You celebrate, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u8	I'm not celebrating, I'm cynical enough to deprive myself of the joys accompanied by their disguise and so I avoid celebrating. I temporarily enjoy a satisfaction, but I also protect myself. I recommend it! We have always been in favour of the change in Article 32, and you, in the eyes of a repentant minister, refused to repeat, at least institutionally, the behaviour that you followed in 2014 and led the country to an early elections with the super gun of the abuse of Article 32. Otherwise, it's not a super gun. Only as a misuse has Article 32 become a superpower. Now you've changed it and watch out for your puppy. In the introduction of your proposal, Rule 32 deals with the direction of the election of the President from the challenge of elections. That's right. So did we. When you saw the theory of bindingity, neither on the basis of past practice nor on the basis of the overwhelming scientific view of constitutionalists, on the vote you shared with us today and today, and a second direction, in the direction of additional election by the people, thinking that you will, in the event that the article passes - and it seems that it passes - the next majority will vote on it only if you accept the theory of recourse to the people. But come where there's God in the end. [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] He's probably punishing you. And this god brought things so that Article 30, which was a front of your reform and provided for a change in the way of election by adding election from the people, did not pass. He grappled and didn't cut off the cub, the one hundred and fifty-one votes. We now have to vote on Rule 32, without institutions with your vote being able to elect the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Tasoula, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u10	I shall conclude, Madam President. In the next House, therefore, the issue of the President of the Republic will be resolved without the abusive super-weapon of appealing to the polls and the dissolution of the House in which you have been fleeing. Revision of the Constitution was a great challenge. The new Republic - and I shall end, Mr President - has called for the revision to come to its institutional landscape, namely the House. We never said, we have never implied, as has been said, that we will be absent from the constitutional review. We have been present since the beginning and we have dug things over the institutional landscape of the revision, which is the Greek Parliament and Parliament, on the basis of the Constitution itself. You yourself did not respect your proposals either, you did not respect the needs of the country, you did not respect the Greek people's right that is intervening between the propositionary and the revised House to determine the Review by choosing the proposal he wants. That's why we've told you from the beginning something that scared you and tried to smuggle it. We have told you to vote on each other's proposals so that the people can become the reformist force, as provided for in the Constitution. You refused that, too. You refused popular intervention in the Review. You refused the country's real problems. You refused substantial changes and resorted to unnecessary and chaotic provisions, to enthusiasm and grasp that you had another supposed masterpiece, a constitutional review, as the Prime Minister called it yesterday, 'bold and wide'. None of this is happening. The next House will be called upon to weigh, from the scope of the provisions that will be sent to today's vote, if a significant review is to take place, in particular, towards political stability and safeguarding the prestige of the political world with the drastic limitation of judicial prerogatives, or to make another move of rapid re-launching, which will have within all the important and serious issues relating to the Greek people and the institutional changes needed by the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u11	All right, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u12	Today, because of SYRIZA, we manage the remains, the avenues of a constitutional review that, because of you, has not become bold, useful and brave, but do not feel that you will also undermine the necessary constitutional changes that the country needs. Sooner or later, the key constitutional changes that the country needs, which you have not proposed, will become an estate of the Greek people and will be included in the text of the country's Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u13	First of all, I should like to make a statement from the Bureau. There's a tolerability for two to three minutes, but not for ten, because that's how we'll never end. I don't want to interfere all the time. I think we've been through this a thousand times. I'll see you tonight. Also, I have some announcements to make. They've been waiting for the kids since Mr. Tasoulus started. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and were toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", twenty-three students and students and two teachers from the "Nestvith" High School in Denmark. We welcome you to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] They are also present after being informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament and were toured in the exhibition of the room "ELLEROS VENIZELOS", forty-eight students and students and four teachers from the 2nd Daphne General School. We welcome you, too. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I shall now give the floor to Mr Loverdos, the rapporteur for the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Good morning and the kids who are here. I have to make an explanation before I begin, which is why I have to say 'I must'. There are a number of issues which, with regard to the Revision of the Constitution, are promoted by legal and political arguments. These issues relate to our sincerity or to the hypocrisy of this House or some of the parties in this House or some Members of Parliament. There is a torso of proposals, Mr Doussina, from the majority on rights. We referred to it in detail. You've taken initiatives. Come to see the deed, to see how you are photographed as images of real and not words. A lot of misery in the field of justice and you're buffoons. You are buffaloes, while some of you had used to be tough and stable and serious when the rule of law was violated and made statements to the press, in order for the citizen to learn the limits of state and law, power and rights. However, I will not go into this today. I could speak for hours and as passions. I shall mention another example of hypocrisy now. When a man died in Matty, the parade of your arguments here was related to arbitrary ones. "It is arbitrary to blame. It is not the people who managed a very powerful fire, a catastrophic fire. They are to blame for arbitrary." Televisions seemed to be tearing down some umbrellas of sunbathing in Saronida. This was the work of a government that was fighting arbitrary. Here, the minister was giving you half an hour. Now, in exactly the same place, the betoniers threw concrete to build pergoles, which is ten times as much environmental breach as the previous one. That is hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen. In this sense, the debate on the revision of the Constitution for the majority of SYRIZA - a majority - is a hypocritical debate and that is our first word. Hypocrisy number one, recorded by my speech. Hypocrisy Number 2: Is there a more important right than the right to life? None, according to the assessments of the Western world, to which Greece belongs. We have an attempted murder of a Prime Minister and we have the current Prime Minister not to make a phone call for him not to visit him. The only one! We also have one candidate - I do not want to say her name - in your Eurobond, who for the victims of Xeros writes in social media - I don't know where she did it, but she gave me a tragic impression - that the victims must apologise to their killer. And hypocrisy number 3, and more serious, because it is about the daily political speech of minority. In the opinion of a majority - minority, it is assumed that the elections that are coming - I speak of the European elections, the general parliamentary elections, the municipal and regional elections - have a political dilemma. They have the political dilemma that here - in Greece and in Europe - we have the extreme right, which affects New Democracy, the comparability of the right-wing space is that, of thousands of people in Greece who are machinerying and working out plans for undermining democracy and the need for the front - from here - against the right and the right-wing, from the left and the centre and the centre and the centre-left, something that has become apparent to be projected as a false dilemma, in order to get any vote from our own space. There is no greater funnyness, there is no greater proof of man-made political intervention, no less serious argument that has been heard to try to cut through the political system than this. Based on, supposedly, this false dilemma, you build - supposedly - alliances against those who are working on democracy and its overthrow. I have said many times that when on the side of Golden Dawn the unacceptable phrases "prophets", "sold" are heard, you fly like springs, because that gives you the right to remind yourself that you have a past. Because all the other things you've said you've trampled and hypocrisy in your word reigns. You're playing the opponent's game, the far right. You're not an opponent of the extreme right. With them you were in the demonstrations of the indignant against the legitimate governments of the country. Now on the Review. Because what I have said so far, the previous ones, politics, are more serious than what is legally heard here, at the last meeting of a disgusting procedure, which was done without the citizen hearing what we say, without the citizen being interested. I have explained with my speech - and I will repeat it - ladies and gentlemen, all the wings of this House, that we are losing a great opportunity. Dear majority colleague, we're losing a great opportunity. Your speech was proof of this missed opportunity. We told you, as a Democratic Reconciliation, that now is an opportunity for people to listen to us and to do something good for the economy, for our country in general, above all for the citizen. What's that good? To put the citizen at the heart of our concern, not with abstract concepts, but with his everyday qualities. First of all, as commander, who complains about the delays that exist when the state operates. Did you suggest anything? Nothing. We have proposed the constitutional introduction of exclusive legislative deadlines. I analyzed it ten times. I don't have time to say it again. You refused. Neither in your suggestions nor in your suggestions has that been heard. The citizen, as commander, is in your absolute contempt. The citizen, as a party to the court, has been late for years, complains that this is essentially a veto, colleagues, who have done the law at the university. How do we answer him? We, with suggestions. You, with no proposal on justice. None. I am not just referring to the way in which we choose the leaders of the courts. I'm not just talking about that. I am referring to the administration, the day-to-day working of the courts, where we have a problem and we could help. We made suggestions. Did you accept any of ours? We accepted some of yours. You have not accepted any, as if justice tabula rasa. You are not bringing an issue concerning its administration, not obviously in its award. You don't care at all. You do not want any of the things that could well be done, that should also be put to the vote. The citizen is an active subject, an economic subject! There were too many proposals. There were proposals for large investment, which must be protected against their content and should not be allowed to change easily the terms that the House is voting on. Did you think that's good for the economy, not to change, that is, the investment terms? You didn't think about it. For the citizen, namely, as a member of a common economy - which is not common for the tycoons alone, we are all shareholders, from better or worse positions, of this common economy - have you proposed anything in this regard? No, it's none of your business. That's not what you're interested in. You don't care about man in his daily function. The kids who want to study? We have the "immigrants", the brokers who share with their own choice, as many of your executives are. They don't want to stay in Greece. They want to go study and live abroad. There's always been them. There are children, however - I have met, in the various international committees of the House that have been involved in recent years, such young people - coming out to developing countries, taking euros of EUR 1,200 - are not bad wages for the countries that live, they are good wages - but they want to come back. These kids, we all have to think about them together. The speeches made by Mrs Genomemas on this point were very characteristic. But here, we have in front of us - and we have had it as a means of resolving it if we were to keep our ideas - the question of Article 16. Ladies and gentlemen, I have said it ten times in committee, and I say it in plenary. Is it possible that we are not concerned about the fact that a thousand hundred Greeks are studying law in Cyprus? With Mr Kurubli, we have crashed a thousand times and what he has done, abandoned us and changed political roofs, I will never forgive him. But that's political, lets me hear him. He told the committee - and I am not saying it because I want to speculate on his own attitude, on the contrary, I say it to praise him, and I say it because man has repeated it with courage - that Article 16 should have seen it and we should have seen it with guarantees. Non-State, non-profit universities were a solution to which we had to join for the sake of all families. Is it preferable for children to stay here than to increase the relocation of young children, because we - you, that is, why are we on the right side - had to hold back some voters and some people who question our political profile, your political profile? After what you have done, you must conspiracy them to be held back in your political forces. Unforgivable mistake! Wrong big! Wrong that, along with the previous ones, it can cost the Revision itself, that is, that the next House does not go ahead, consider this Review unnecessarily to be a new proposal in its new summit. This possibility is open, because it is very small the contribution of the proposal that is going through today and will be put as a proposal in the next House, which is the result of our work. It is a political argument, which we have told you from the outset. I even brought my speech from the first meeting of the Committee on Revision of the Constitution to read to you a village. We said here - and our practice was this - that there should be no provision in this House over a hundred and eighty (80) votes in this House - which must take these votes twice - so that in the next House the eighty (80) votes are required, so there should be a need for consensus. That is why we have taken the stand that one of us should vote for and cover the whole of our parliamentary group, plus Mr Panagoulis. I have to repeat this, I said it next time and he didn't notice. Did we say so from the beginning? We said that. At the first meeting of the committee, I said: it takes a hundred and eighty votes, as we all know, from Rule 110, which does not have to be taken by the provisions under review in this House, with the exception of articles relating to the price of the political world, Article 86 of the Constitution on the criminal liability of the ministers and Article 62 of the Constitution on matters of parliamentary immunity. It's out there. We must vote on these, because we must show a common sense in this regard to the citizens. As far as all the rest are concerned, however, as I said, "the majority in this House must not take up an eighty (80) votes, even if the opposition must vote with the President or Parliamentary spokesman of the parties", I said, "even if the majority, by addressing Mr Katrugalos and Mr Dousina, "has to vote against a block". I said that at the first meeting of the committee. Well, of course, because blindfolds are specific. As you entered the House for the Revision of the Constitution, that's how you're going out. In addition to sponsors of the New Democracy at voter level, you have also been sponsored at the level of Revision of the Constitution and you have a responsibility! Because I do not know what Mr Tasoulus says today, I do not know whether we are the members of the next House. The people will decide. Maybe a lot of us aren't. The House usually renews 40% of its members, the people renew them. The next ones to be here after the May elections - as I believe - or October - the next one will therefore be called free to decide. And here you give the right to the then majority - which does not seem to be you - to change the voting conditions of the President of the Republic and not to require a consensus in the House? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I will need one or two more minutes and I will finish. What's wrong with that? Why are you doing this? I am not saying this because we as a party want to be useful in the next House, namely in the next parliamentary relationships. I say this because we need to have a common understanding of how the President of the Republic is elected. What are you guys doing now? While you know what the proposals are, you are giving a parliament the right to take the decision with fifty-one (151) votes. Congratulations, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA! You are also naive and clumsy and in the wrong direction with regard to Article 32, which you violated in the 2015 presidential election, not voting for Stavros Dimas and denounced the MPs who voted as silver voters. I want to close four positive reports with their titles. We took a stand on all matters. I believe that our parliamentary group - Venizelos, Papatheodorou, Karras, I, those of us who spoke - gave a good battle, a fight of dignity, credibility, arguments, not phanophileism, a fundamental battle. But, as I said in my speech, this process went wrong. What do I stand out for? I know that we have all voted together, apart from Articles 62 and 86, and go to the next House, Article 68(2). Madam President, as many times as since 1975 the opposition has said that the committees of inquiry have to be set up by minority votes and that these votes are enough, the majority have said 'no'. When majorities became minority, these claimed minority rights to be minority rights, the Committees of Inquiry and the new majorities, which were yesterday's minorities and supported the opposite, said 'no'. In this comedy this House ends, proposing the revision of Article 68(2). Also, with regard to social rights - the practical value of constitutional safeguards many times is questioned, and rightly so, in the case-law of the courts - we emphasised. We supported the proposals that had been heard. And even - finally! - there was a debate on the need to increase the dynamic role and guarantees of the courts operating in the Armed Forces. Well, I'm making four reports related to something positive. Is it enough for this body of positive arrangements - proposals that have been voted on, to be reviewed by the next House? I believe that they are very few in relation to the needs of Greeks, Greeks and Greece as a country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u15	Mr Pappas, rapporteur for the Golden Dawn, has now spoken for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u16	Madam President, it has been about an hour since the rapporteurs of the parties, before my position, were placed on the proposed constitutional revision for a second time. And I was thinking: Are these speakers not going to refer to Golden Dawn? And where I was thinking about it, the representative of a party, the previous party, who, by putting the mud on the fan, tried to steal his five-minute anti-fascist, against Warhall, the five-minute publicity, referring to the Golden Dawn and compared to SYRIZA, saying: "You are the same. Why do you respond when they call you "prophets..." etc.Huh? First of all, what did the representative of this party not understand? He didn't realize that on the subject of the Greek language we were the exact ones. I mean, how do we do it? - the traitors we call them "the traitors". However, what he did not understand is that the traitors also include those who took their stand - and not saying various details of language, nationality, right and so on - the name 'North Macedonia' in the neighbouring state. Together, call yourselves "constitutional arch" or "democratic arch" and all together you gave the terminology "North Macedonia" in Skopje, in subjection to your naval bosses. And after you talked about opponents, say that we, unfortunately, have you for political opponents. Because your opponent must be chosen and your opponent must be a level which, unfortunately, you do not. You should not speak, gentlemen, of "the thief - PASOK". Just yesterday, it was signed by the Interior Minister to take all parties, except Golden Dawn, about EUR 15 million. Because there's money, right? The Democratic Partnership will take 828,000 euros on the grant trousers, will take another EUR 165000 for research purposes, to investigate, gentlemen. And that's not all you need. You will get 523 000 euros as Elias and another 104 000 euros to investigate Elia and do political investigations. So you're a good thing about them! Instead, you put the mud in the fan to accuse the Golden Dawn! You do well to blame us. As long as you blame us, you're giving us strength. As long as you blame us, you show that we're something different from you. We're not all the same! Four days ago, the Great Fortress of the Orthodox Greeks began. It was pure Monday and I - like many people - sat on the computer, looking at the bills on the social networks, in particular the Prime Minister's account. It arrived at night and Mr Tsipras had not said even one wish to the Greek people, he had not even said a simple 'good Sarakos'. In other words, Mr. Tsipras only knew how to wish Ramadan and other Islamic holidays, he only knew to wish the Muslims who live, other legally and other illegally, in our country. We will wish the Greek people "good Sarakostis" and at the same time wish a 'good resurrection'. "Good resurrection" in our country. We wish it, because for us, whatever you do, the dominant religion of the Greeks is Orthodox Christian. No Bolshevik, no philhele international gifiogos can change it. No constitutional revision, no paper can change popular faith. Today's speech, Madam President, is being made at a difficult political juncture. We're supposed to be out of the memos. The Prime Minister celebrated last August Greece's exit from the memorandum. Mr. Kammenos, then, was making his tie. He wore the tie Zafe gave him for the betrayal of our Macedonia. And the news is that the Eurogroup’s yield of 1 billion euros has been frozen and that international loan sharks, the Brussels dictatorship, require more sacrifices and greater poverty among the Greeks, with the justification of the discord of the Council, Eurogroup, with the Greek Finance Minister. At the same time, this Eurogroup decided to activate a enhanced surveillance framework for Greece, which has entered into force since August 2018, i.e. at the end of the programme of financial assistance, at interest rates lower than on financial markets. In simple terms, Brussels continues to have control, they continue to strangle the financial situation of our country, without even lending us. They no longer need to lend us, but to control us and poverty. Also, at this juncture we have banks literally to strangle the Greek people, to have been cut off from the real Greek economy, to serve and to be essentially in foreign hands, to serve foreign interests, with the sole direction of continuing lending and their threatened further rescue with the backwardness of the Greek people. Once again, the Greek people will be asked to pay the banks, which they are already paying for. He pays them with his blood, pays them with his first residence, pays them with his fortune, with his homes. We as a national movement, as a people's movement, as a movement that has, in its programme, the principle of social justice, we call on the Greek people to resist. Resist the dictatorship of Brussels and resist the local mania of this dictatorship. Only one government will have the will for the real development of the Greek economy and the well-being of the Greek people, a national government that will redirect the banking system and actually bring it to the interests of the Greeks and not the loan sharks. Beyond economics, we have many interesting policies. We recently had the statement by Mr Katrugalos, who told us that it is time for Nobel - the Peace Nobel in particular - to be given to Mr Tsipras for the Prespecies Agreement. This interview was given in the German magazine 'DER SPIEGEL'. He said, and Mr Katrugalos - and he is not the only "lady" who talks about it, many Syrians have come out and spoken about it -: "The Prespecies Agreement is a pioneering agreement, which I believe the Nobel Peace Agreement would be an appropriate recognition." Admirable, left modesty! That's the suggestion for Nobel Prize. They've got a lot of nerve! That's what Judas didn't have. Judah the thirty silvers of betrayal threw them and went and hung himself. But you have no trace of gum, no politics or of men! We also had the incredible statement of the Syrian strain, which repeated the anarchist slogan "the Aegean belongs to its fish". Actually, that's what he said. And that's what anarchists said in the late 1970s. He said the fish in the Aegean Sea have neither Greek nor Turkish flags. It seems, therefore, that with such statements - which are not random - you are starting and continuing on the downhill path of endlessness. And you are prepared, you nationalists of SYRIZA, to haggle our Aegean in a model of the Prespecies Agreement. In this direction, it is also the decisions that the national guards will not parade on 25 March. You fear the national guards not to shout slogans about our Macedonia, not to shout what Golden Dawn calls: "Macedonia is one and it is Greek". Also, in the Greek Stratama, with the undocumented Minister of Defense, Admiral Apostolakis - who is not the Minister of National Defence, but the Minister of National Defence of SYRIZA - you criminalize the slogan and the platoon "Macedonia xcuist, Alexander the country". It seems with this tactic, as the SYRIZA State Secretary for Foreign Affairs has said, that you want to complete what was left in the middle of EAM-ELAS's 1946-1949. It won't pass you. The Greeks resist. Golden Dawn resists. Golden Dawn lifts up the flag of disobedience, lifts up the flag with the star of Berna. It was Macedonia, it is and it will only be Greek! Unfortunately, we have a Civic Opposition which, in all this treasonal scene that was made with the agreement and with its ratification in the Greek Parliament, says right and left, in interviews, that it will respect and apply the Prespecies Agreement, giving assurances and pilgrimages to the master, praitor Piat, thus pleading that it will finally take the chess of power, take the anointment from the native ratificationists. I will say two - three things, Madam President - and I will not be abused much, as the previous speakers have done, my time - for the constitutional review. Let me say on the constitutional review that the representative of the New Democracy - so that the neo-democrats are not complained - said earlier that this current procedure is a rare parliamentary procedure. Indeed, the parliamentary process of the Constitutional Review is rare, but not rarely your hypocrisy, which will apply the Treaty of Prespecies, which you have openly voted for, you have voted on the open borders, you have voted for the homosexuals' coexistence pact, you have voted basically for the granting of the name "North Macedonia" and you have voted for the creation of the mosque in Athens. You, the SYRIZA component. Thus, rare though the constitutional process, but not rarely the hypocrisy of the New Democracy. And I am not just addressing the neo-democratic MPs, nor am I addressing the awakened real right-wing voters of the New Democracy, who are now on the side of the real people's right, which is Golden Dawn. I am particularly addressing the incarcerated sandowers, those waiting for the appointment of the New Democracy, namely the 'professional' neo-democratics, and I invite them to wake up when the country is in danger. You are not voters of the New Democracy over the country. Wake up and resist what's coming. What's coming will make no difference to SYRIZA. It will be a continuation of the SYRIZA government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We will vote against the Constitutional Review as a whole. We believe that under these circumstances the drafted Constitutional Charter will not be done, will not be voted on. This is a fireplace in your government, an election fireplace. It's not gonna happen. Where will you find the hundred and eighty to vote on the articles for review? But I do believe that you have no legitimacy to actually make the Constitution a rag, to make it a tire, to implement policies that are in direct contrast with the majority of the Greek people and policies which no charter provides. As far as Article 3 is concerned, I was impressed it made me how many hours it had made the result. At first, they said it didn't pass. Then released the document of those responsible here, where "150" had been handwritten and became "151". What really happened to this vote? Who are those hundred fifty-one? Let me say that no matter how many to vote, no matter how many to vote on the religion, no matter what you vote on the so-called "neutral religion", neoliberalism of the new PASOK, of SYRIZA the "neutral religion" - I searched for it in Babiniotis and there is no such word, your inventions are - so no matter what you vote, no matter what you say, the faith of the Greeks does not change. I shall say a few words about Article 28. I would point out here that the People's League is the abolition of all forms of privilege, the abolition of immunity, both for Members and ministers. You do not change anything, you do not fundamentally change Article 86 of the Constitution, the so-called 'Ministerial Responsibility Act'. You're barely legalizing him and making him stronger. To conclude, I would also like to say that the standing position of the Golden Dawn is the independence of justice, as well as the abolition of the independent authorities, of this invention you have done, so that you can finally make the Pangalos that said "all together we have eaten", so that you can all eat it together. What are we doing? Whether we are building an offshore - not to mention by name, because it will be a matter for a Member of the New Democracy - or we are building an independent authority and everything is well burned. Therefore, it is not possible to say a distinction of powers, it is not possible to speak of independent justice, and the leadership of justice is chosen by the government or parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u17	Come on, Mr. Pappa. You said you were finishing fast and you have...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Madam President. The quickest for me is the twenty minutes and not the twenty-four minutes you gave the spokesman of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u19	Okay, we'll treat you equally. But it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u20	I should like to displease you, Madam President, because I know that you are listening carefully to the speakers' speeches, with the results of a shock poll. The patriotic parties, Madam President, must know - and you are shaking what comes not only from you, but from the entire political establishment - will double their seats in the European Parliament. It is very bad - it is bad for you, it is good for us and for the people of Europe - to see what it is. European elections in May, and the poll shows that six countries, Germany, Austria, Italy, Poland, France, Spain and three of them - France, Italy and Poland - are ahead of patriotic parties. And, of course, that will be the climate in Greece as well. So there is a large part of the Greek people who closes their ears to all of you, in your propaganda, closes his ears to the bodies of corruption, to the intertwiners, to the canalarchs, to the journalists, to the politicians and to the politicians and hopes and hopes in a Golden Dawn of Hellenism, a Golden Dawn that will punish the regime of climax, punish the inspirings of the agreement, the betrayal agreement of the Prespecies. Macedonia is one and it is Greek!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Pappa, you have left some insinuations. The vote was roll-call. Everything's signed. Looks like who voted. So don't make any impressions. You can both on the Internet and on the Practicals to see who voted. Mr Ioannis Giokas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u22	In recent years, representatives of SYRIZA and of the New Democracy have become a fashion in public confrontation, saying that two of the opposite plans will be confronted in the upcoming political battles. The representatives of SYRIZA say that their project is the progressive, anti-neoliberal, while the New Democracy is a tough, right-wing project, and the representatives of the New Democracy say that their project is modern, pro-investment, pro-European, while SYRIZA is ideological, outdated and goes by saying. In fact, if you look at the substance, not only are we not talking about two different projects, much more diverse instead, but we are talking about the same project, with different variations, which are equally unpopular. It is the plan that maintains and extends all the Memorandum Laws in the otherwise known as the Memorandum of Understanding. It is the plan that keeps the bloody surpluses and the strict supervision of the European Union, which we have seen in the recent Eurogroup decision. It is the plan of sacrifice labour rights for the sake of capitalist recovery, the plan that baptises social policy charity, the logic of minimum and minimum. It is the plan of naval commitments involving the country and the people in very dangerous adventures. On these critical issues where do SYRIZA, New Democracy and other parties disagree? Nowhere. And because you don't argue anywhere, you're trying to shape, devise dividing lines false, callippi, among you. But what does all this have to do with the constitutional review? They have, because this pollan fight has become an attempt to get through and through the process of constitutional revision. And because the debate on the Constitution is de facto more general, more subtracting, it is offered for such false controversy. However, those who have studied the proposals of the government and the other parties, those who attended the committee meetings and the previous plenary sitting a month ago, those who see the substance behind the mammothisms and slogans, can see that the proposals of the SYRIZA, the New Democracy and the other parties, despite the individual differences, have a common denominator. There is a single thread linking these proposals, common, distinct objectives. What are these objectives? Firstly, the sanctity of your government and your political stability, so that there is absolutely no disturbance in the exercise of the barbaric sovereign policy, whether that is why the President of the Republic is elected, whether there are other reasons, much more serious for us, such as the struggle of the people, the labour movement, the folk movement and the pressure he can exert - and he must exercise - towards the governments in question. How is this stability ensured? It is guaranteed, for example, by the SYRIZA proposal for the so-called 'building of distrust' proposal. What does that mean - you don't say, you don't explain - that? For the people to understand, it means that, if this motion of censure is made against one government and this proposal is voted in favour - so the government has lost Parliament's confidence - this government is not falling, there are no elections, unless there is agreement on another Prime Minister and on another government. That's what you suggest. Is that democratic, is it progressive? Of course not. It's deep, very deep reactionary. We are, in fact, talking about the official constitutional safeguarding of minority governments. What is now exceptionally done is now permanent, through the procedures of the Constitution itself. And it is no coincidence that such a proposal has also been tabled by the New Democracy. What proposal? It is the proposal for continuous, four-year, undisturbed parliamentary circles, which, for no reason, will be dispersed, will not be dropped by any government. Here is how on key issues you coincide with SYRIZA and New Democracy. As you also coincide with the need to disconnect the election of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the House and to hold elections, no matter whether the New Democracy says by a hundred and fifty one, while SYRIZA says by election from the people, which led to other kinds of roads. And because Mr Dousinas before, in his report, spoke about this, we should remind him that this issue, namely the election of the President of the Republic by the people, ended with the previous vote, because Article 30 was voted against, that is to say, on the basis of your own proposal, the election of the President of the Republic by the people. It was also voted against by SYRIZA MPs and so any attempt to put this issue out of the window will in fact be a huge homicide. No, of course you are not able to do that too! What do you want to solve, however, with all these changes to the proposal for distrust, constructive disconnection, etc.Huh? You want to make a series of necessary adjustments to the way in which the urban state and the governments operate, taking into account that the present political correlation does not allow for the creation of stable mono-party governments in the way that has happened in the past. That is why you are attempting to constitutionalize minority governments and adjust the urban political system to conditions of possible future instability, which may be much larger than the one we have experienced so far. And that proves one more thing. All that you say about regularity, stability, undisturbed growth and so on. It's literally air cut off. You know very well that there are serious developments going on, they thicken the clouds of a new crisis, perhaps even greater, and you have been rushing from now, as one of the two main pillars of support for the urban political system, but also the New Democracy, to take your measures. And one of these measures is, of course, the immunization of the Constitution. Of course not a shield against the markets and elites, as you say - you have swallowed everything and simply restore the bankrupt, as Mr Dousina said, 'capitalism with a human face' - but a shield against the people, their struggles and the possibility of popular outbursts, which will affect the stability of the governments and the urban political system in general. This is what you want, not the armour against the markets. Here you have not dared, you dare not change Article 107 of the Constitution, which guarantees the shipowners' tax immunity. You didn't even dare to do that that we proposed! All you have to do is agree with the Greek Shipowners' association on the voluntary offer, the voluntary contribution of the shipowners. As the people - who are listening to us now - have a voluntary contribution to taxes and are not forced into a thousand or two ways of paying all these unfavourable taxes, which you and the others have imposed. A week ago, with a last-minute amendment, you have reduced taxation for the distributed profits of the large shareholders from 15% to 10%. Another huge blow against the elites that you're supposed to fight for! Think, then, not to fight the elites, what gifts you would make to all of them! So we are talking about armour against the people. We say that this instability of the urban political system must not only be afraid of it, but must also seek it to prevent measures, to remove conquests, to create breaches as far as possible in the negative correlation of power and, above all, to shape conditions, to gather forces for a radical overthrow. Because your stability is the greatest instability for the people and their rights. The second objective of the review was the constitutionalisation of a number of aspects that went through with the memorandum. This is what you seek, for example, by introducing the concept of reciprocity to social security, which was the siege of demolition of whatever social character insurance was. This is what you are seeking with reference to a'reasonable level of living', which in essence means adopting the logic of the minimum, equalising downwards of the people through the demolition of rights and the recycling of extreme poverty. This is what you are seeking with the proposal that is being made to be the distribution networks for water, energy under public control, not, of course, to halt the privatisation process. Only last week we had a bill to privatise PPC to continue the competition for lignite plants in PPC. So where, allegedly, are you barring privatization? In fact, you want a regulation that will make the public wheelchair, the marker of this process of privatisation and liberalisation, which has been launched by the former and which is going to continue with great consistency too. So this is the reality behind the so-called anti-neoliberal agenda. However, certain rights which either exist today in the Constitution or which you propose to join, are in the air since there are clauses, loopholes, exceptions, public interest, public order, public security, which in practice circumvent these rights, but also when it is already guaranteed by previous revisions - and you do not doubt it - a basic siege that works at the expense of and whatever positive declarations are present. Who's that? Recognizing the supremacy of European Union law with Articles 28 and 80 and the respective interpretative statements that have imposed any interpretation of the Constitution in the light of our country's participation in the Euro-Union structure, the European Union, EMU and on the basis of which, in previous years, measures have been taken, memorandums have been implemented and so on. Let us look at some examples. The New Democracy has proposed that the budgetary discipline which, according to SYRIZA, was the norm, should be included in the Constitution. But this proposal, in a way, is not already constitutionalised by the budgetary pacts imposed by the European Union and EMU and which you are not questioning? What policy does SYRIZA implement? Does it not implement the policy of budgetary discipline and, indeed, of bleeding in favour of overcrowding? Second example: The New Democracy has proposed to revise the notorious Article 16. At the same time as the European Union's directives, which you do not question, the recognition of colleges, the equalisation of diplomas, the creation of a whole market in higher education, and not only in the lower levels of education, which we and that is where we request to be exclusively public while you reject this. That is why we are talking about a huge hypocrisy when you say about a so-called progressive agenda and why the confrontation between you as steadfast as it may be and as much as it grows in front of the election battles will not hide your strategic identity. Third objective of the Constitutional Review, also common, so-called morality, the price of the urban political system. In other words, the prestige that has been shaken in the eyes of the people must be restored because of the crisis and the barbaric measures that have taken place over the years. It is in this context that the proposal for Article 86 and the law on the responsibility of Ministers which, while the people's demand for all these years was that this law should be abolished completely - that was the people's request and that was the motto of the political forces - with your proposals this law is not abolished. It remains with some improvements, such as the abolition of reduced limitations or a declaration of interpretation, so that certain offences are directly subject to justice. But there is still a key core of Article 86, which is that for a number of offences the responsibility of preliminary examination, the exercise of criminal prosecution, the revocation of criminal prosecution will continue to have the House, i.e. the current government, a parliamentary majority with what this entails. We have said so at the previous sitting, and now we are voting on the revision of Rule 86 in order to boost this process, but in the next House we will insist that there should be a removal of all these existing regulations, which give the majority of the majority of them the right to do what they think. In addition to Article 86, however, the SYRIZA Government has tried with semimeters or tricks to overcome other overtime urban modernisations that should have taken place for decades. For example, it did not proceed with the complete separation of State - Church and remained in a monkey separation. Because it maintains in the Constitution the concept of prevailing religion. Leave what you say is a finding and has no regulatory effect. First of all, when we talk about the Constitution, we are not talking about a simple legal mark. First of all, it has ideological consequences for the Constitution the notion of prevailing religion. But it also has regulatory consequences. Why do we recall that decisions by the Council of State to have a categorical effect on the lesson of the religious ones that have been supported? On the one hand, in Article 16(2), which says that education must promote religious conscience - you have not, of course, touched it - and on the other hand on the concept of prevailing religion. For this reason, and the proposal for a law that had already been tabled by us, but also by you, SYRIZA, contained the removal of the concept of prevailing religion that you maintain in your proposals in this constitutional review. You also did not adopt the real, purely proportional. Why are you bringing about regulation and, indeed, an interpretative statement allowing 10% to be deviated from the election result? So what simple analogue do you make? It's re-establishing a cobbing system. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] The JRC participated in the Constitutional Review and tabled proposals to protect, broaden popular democratic rights, trade union freedoms, the sovereign rights of the country without, of course, delusional that there may be a progressive and democratic Constitution within the current power of capital. At the previous meeting we discussed these proposals in detail. They're available to anyone who wants to study them. These proposals were rejected by both SYRIZA and, of course, by other parties. And if you wish, it is also a question of your democracy that a parliamentary group, if it has 50 Members, can not put these proposals to the vote in the constitutional revision process. These proposals have therefore been rejected. This shows what the real dividing lines are. Of course, we put them above all to the people, to the workers, to be the subject of demanding the working people's movement. We call on every progressive man to turn the back on all these false dilemmas, on all these so-called progressive and democratic calls, which are, in fact, the laundry of the most barbarous anti-population policy. The real defence of the rights of the people requires deeper radical changes in power and the economy. The people have the right to fight in all forms in such a direction and they also have the right but also the power, we say, to shape the preconditions for changing the current constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u23	We are going with the last special speaker, Mr Mario Georgiadis, from the Centro Association. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, a huge opportunity has been lost for a substantial and not a final constitutional review. Because there are too many articles requiring immediate change and we do not know whether at the end of the day even one article will pass the eighty-eight votes second. The opportunity has therefore been lost for radical areas in order to strengthen the principles of transparency, impartiality, equal treatment of citizens with regard to the law, representation and general basic guarantees of compliance with the constitutional principle. The constitutional review, as you all know, is a motto of democracy. Unfortunately, however, the bold minority government has also chosen this top constitutional function to integrate it into its micro-political interests. The Constitution is the supreme state legislature, the foundation of our democracy in which both citizens and state officials and judges resort. Gentlemen of the government, you have really made sure that the Constitutional Review is in place within narrow party limits. We, as a Centro Association, refuse to participate in this pragmatism. As we abstained from the first vote, we will be abstaining from the second vote today because we believe that the Constitution is a product of consensus and a real debate to which all the proposals from all parties and groups must be heard. Our own, once again, are, unfortunately, in the heart of the unusable. Under the present circumstances we will expect the government that will dare the ruptures of principle, emanating from customer dependence and rupturedity, to be a past. We all know that it is the greatest wound of the modern Greek state. So in addition to the proposals we have made, I will mention some which we would like to take into account and be a way of dealing with public opinion and citizens, of course, but also with all of you who are in Parliament. The criminalisation of the rosphet is something we believe. The rushphetti, really, should at some point be criminalized. Traditional parties that have exercised power in the past do not see it as a wound, but as an opportunity to consolidate their party army. We, on the other hand, as a Centro Association, must lift the flag of democracy throughout the public administration. When a citizen is appointed by a politician in an unfair manner for a post in the public, he will, of course, vote for his political benefactor when the poll time comes, whether or not this politician who has been appointed has the capacity to deal with the public. When a politician is not judged on the basis of his abilities and efficiency, but gains his parliamentary post on the basis of the number of voters he has warded, I could say, in the public interest, then the parliament is, unfortunately, filled with unworthy people who at the end of the day are unable to manage the important affairs of the state. The lack of democracy, ladies and gentlemen, in all the positions of the state apparatus, should have been constitutionalized. The second part is simply proportional. After ensuring that there is no customer state with the criminalisation of the rosé, the parties must acquire the exact number of MPs required by the popular verdict. There is no 20% of Greek citizens elect a self-powered government that will govern the remaining 80% without objection. We don't have to discover the wheel. All the advanced Western states, when electing MPs in a proportional manner, give no support and no bonuses to the first party, except for the unequivocal rounding of decimal numbers. That is why the term'simply proportional' does not exist at international level, and we are talking about a proportional system of elections. Clearly and unmistakably, any distortion of the election result means tendencies of totalitarianism. The countries that have exalted their state mechanism and have also implemented analogues are the most prosperous and powerful, with less corruption. If you move to Central and Northern Europe you will see the truth. The most stable, long-term and incorruptible governments of States such as Denmark and the Netherlands are based on an electoral system that is proportional, the so-called'simply proportional' for us. If the unfavourable analogous system is established in constitutional terms, then any party will be given the appetite to undermine the efforts of consultation. On the contrary, today each party is trying to steal the fifty seats so that it can govern itself and consolidate without integrating its own client state. A third issue is the Member's translations. We must constitutionally provide for the post-election of Members to be transferred from one party to another. When people vote for a man in a ballot, they vote for him to represent a specific ideological site that expresses the values of the party that has voted and believed. It is not after his election either for personal reasons, for his personal interests or for any other reason, to change parties like shirts. Politics and Parliament are not a soccer championship, ladies and gentlemen, who can change shirts so easily and be part of the team that will give it the most advantage. If a Member wishes in the future, disagrees with a party and wants to change a party, he can gladly resign, hand over his seat and then he will be in charge of the next elections with the party he wants to join. A fourth issue to be debated is the ban - we could say, the introduction - of the deficit of over 3%. The Maastricht Treaty, ladies and gentlemen, is considered the most important Treaty of the European Union. This treaty laid the foundations for our common currency, the euro. The most important criteria it has introduced are two: the budget deficit does not exceed 3% and the public debt does not exceed 60% of GDP. Especially when we talk about the deficit, we must constitutionally provide for this regulation so that there will never be a government in the future which, under any circumstances, can present a deficit of 3% in its budget. This is not only a compliance with European acquired rights, but also a high moral requirement which should, in any case, refer to our legislation and be constitutionally guaranteed, that is to say, there cannot be any government in the future that will redeem the future of the next generation for the current generation. When a state presents deficits, then it swells the debt and loads it to the next. If immorality must stop in the most supreme way, the constitutional, then that must be done. A fifth topic is the fair ratio of media promotion of parties. There is a huge problem in representing parties in the media. On the one hand, it is not possible for the state to favour the individual government and private media to cling to the party of their choice and to wait directly or side-effects. Especially in electoral times when a media refers to political issues, it has to spread its time fairly to all political parties. This provision should be entered in the Constitution if we want a transparent and fair public information. Especially to us in the Central Association, the phenomenon of not even mentioning the press releases we send to the media and our official communications, and all parties have already been mentioned, even those who currently have no parliamentary group within Parliament. A sixth issue for us, very important, is polls. We have recommended the existence of an independent authority to monitor the findings of polling companies. He was also a positive approach to the Minister, Mr Pappas, but there has never been a substantial debate on this. In the same period two companies cannot draw any completely different conclusions from a survey. Something's definitely going wrong. Of course we are not statistical scientists to prove what is going wrong with the findings of each public company, but we must provide for special non-discriminatory scientists of unknown value to an independent authority, which will check whether the appropriate scientific standards have been complied with in the conduct and publication of any survey. Unfortunately, in recent years, it has been found that polls generally form trends and do not reflect them. This must be stopped for the sake of the culture, freedom of choice and democracy. For the reasons I mentioned by the Central Association and our President are fighting for decades now. We know that traditional political patterns and traditional philosophical party mechanisms are opposed to all these proposals, probably because they are not in their own interest. But we, ladies and gentlemen, are accountable to our citizens, to our voters and not to the officials and soldiers created by the governments concerned, and that is why they should all be put on a public agenda because they are crucial issues. I am very sorry to see that you have been able to deal with the media recently with unfortunate and provocative statements by your officials and some shows that are also being made within Parliament - we have witnessed one of these in your parliamentary group yesterday - instead of dealing with the media all day, from yesterday and today, with this top Parliament's process, the constitutional review. Nobody cares. They are concerned only with the unfortunate statements made by your official who has forgotten Marfin's dead, and in the past he has wished that no elections should be held, so that he remains in his chair. We have even seen the President - and that is why I am saying this - negatively about what has been done on the issue of Mr Polakis' loan. We saw Mr Philadelphia referring negatively to Mr Kyritsis - in his honor, and he reminded us of the dead of Marfin - and yesterday we saw Mrs Kavvadia trying to comprehend a phenomenon that currently exists in the Greek Parliament. Unfortunately, it is about SMEs, rather than about important issues that Parliament and all citizens should have to deal with. We hope in the future that the world will give us the necessary electoral power so that at least we can implement it and change this whole negative climate. As I told you, we will abstain from the process. Thank you, Mr President, for the time and thanks, ladies and gentlemen, for listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that we continue as follows: it is the Bureau of the Revision Committee of the Constitution which is to speak, namely Mr Paradefopoulos, Mr Tragakis and Mr Papatheodorou. So the three Members will have to speak, until the Heads begin, as parliamentary representatives Mr Javarras and Mr Karakostas have spoken. I would also like to point out that Mrs Vaki is now asking for it, and I suppose other colleagues too. Mr Paradoxopoulos has the floor, with one request, as long as we can be typical, because if the Heads start, then a vote will be taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin by referring to the procedure to say that a high-level parliamentary debate was held in the course of the work of the review committee, with an exchange of arguments. The parties voted as they believed in an article. This was also evident in the proposals of most parties. Perhaps the case of the Democratic Association was a little different because it voted only one, but in general we had a debate with individualized arguments and a vote, which Parliament is honouring. And, of course, everyone contributed to that. Let me first refer to my party. The rapporteurs, Mr Katrugalos, Mr Dousina, Members of Parliament with their contribution, but also from the other parties and especially from the New Democracy, Mr Tragakis as a member of the Bureau, Mr Tassoulas as rapporteur and colleagues from the other parties have contributed to a very useful debate. Maybe someone's thinking: All that well? So where is the political conflict and where, if you like, the political controversy expected by the MP of a party? Let me tell you we've had problems. And we had problems with the process. For example, with regard to the New Democracy's attitude to the Constitution, the problem was not exactly about the attitude of its officials who had the key institutional roles during the debate. The problem with the New Democracy's standpoint on the procedure - and I propose it only because it is a procedural matter - was the attitude of its Chief, Mr Mitsotakis. I am referring to the fact that, in spite of the special and careful attitude of the members of the New Democracy who participated in the committees, the attitude of the New Democracy as expressed at the centre was one attitude - how can I say it? - 'take all the necessary steps', that is to say, to vote on all of our own provisions, to vote on all of your own initials, and to reach the last sittings in the last part-session, which we heard from the President of the New Democracy say: what we are concerned mainly with is Articles 16, 17 and 24, and we can only vote on them. This attitude is not an article debate before the vote on a new constitution, which all of Parliament's officials will have to see with great care arrangements that are decisive to the fate of the people for decades and perhaps even to the perpetrators. I would say that the difference of attitude which existed and which I would point out was also evident in this case, even in the difference between the proposals of the New Democracy and a practice of the New Democracy which is continuing today. I am referring to the fact that in the proposals of the New Democracy we have in Article 53 a proposal for elections to be held every four years, when its Chief of State once - twice a week constantly calls for elections to be held regardless of the time. I think that these contradictions have characterised this attitude, as well as some others which I will mention next, now going to the point. As far as the substance of the proposals is concerned, therefore, I should like to say that the SYRIZA proposal is a proposal which provides a physiognomy to the Constitution which is not the one that was before, rather than corrects it, improves it and promotes it. In particular, and on the basis of the government proposals for the revision of the Constitution, we continue to have a planned constitution, which will be a representative democracy. They are introduced into representative democracy, which, in particular, expresses the institutional needs of our time, some touches of direct democracy, some referendums, with self-determination, not inflationary, and finally, we have some reforms concerning the field of individual and social rights, which are also careful and balanced. And Article 3 is very characteristic. The proposal for Article 3 is not a radical proposal, which calls into question what the prevailing religion is in the country, but is a proposal which shows that in no case should the designation of the Eastern Orthodox Church as a dominant religion lead to deterioration, restriction or adverse consequences for other religions. So this general nature of the government's proposals expresses an attitude of sincerity and responsibility. Why are you being honest? Because all the proposals that have been put forward are proposals concerning the proper functioning of the culture, all the functions of the civil society, the upgrading of individual and social rights, where there appeared to be some gaps or some regulatory shortcomings and none of the SYRIZA proposals concern the fate of the next elections or the attempt to win the government position by the particular party making these proposals. The only proposal that seems to have anything to do with elections is the proposal to introduce, for constitutional adoption of the simple analogous system, but this proposal is not a short-term one, I would say. The left has had it for many years and of course the choice of this system will also determine the political and institutional life of the place. So in no case are we dealing with proposals for short-term or speculative. All of these proposals look at the future of the country. I would like to say at the outset that the flagship between these proposals - the main of which is the proposal for the revision of Article 86 of the Constitution, which concerns the criminal liability of politicians. We also, of course, voted in the previous vote to vote on the provision with the broadest majority. However, we must bear in mind that the fact that the regulation of Article 86 of the Constitution appears to be more desirable does not mean that everyone wants it for the same reason. It is very obvious, it is well known that there is a far-right concept that sees all politically corrupt ones. That is why he has no problem voting on Article 86. Apart from the extreme right-wing concept, however, let us think of this: at the moment, SYRIZA introduces the proposal that Article 86 no longer provides for a short limitation, but for a limitation that is common to any citizen in the face of the crimes of the Criminal Code. SYRIZA suggests that. It suggests a party that knows that after the elections it will have the power. And if one of you thinks that at the moment I am talking politically and I am not talking about institutionally - because we have democracy, another party can be elected to democracy - I can say that, in any case, it proposes this for Article 86 a party that believes it will be in power after the elections or, in any case, does everything to be in power. So who is SYRIZA's proposal for Article 86? Only SYRIZA himself. Because the proposal to extend the limitation will obviously be on those who will have power after the elections. On the other hand, what had been judged so far has been judged and the proposal does not affect the time when crimes which have already been committed and which have been committed. So this is a proposal which will improve accountability, criminal control and the responsibility of politicians in Parliament in its implementation. Its promotion also shows that the government is currently seeking to deepen democracy and not to win the elections. I would like to stress this point: Article 86 of the Constitution, which deals with the criminal control of political persons, is central to the functioning of democracy. It is central because it introduces the criminal accountability of the rulers and the criminal accountability of the rulers, as well as acting as commissioners, is an essential element of democracy. In response to this proposal made by SYRIZA, I would say that the New Democracy's counter-proposal on many things seemed to be a proposal aimed at topicality and not at obtaining a constitution that will be the institutional guarantee of the country's future social and historical path. It is not just the arrangements that I mentioned earlier, or the announcements that I made to you, of the type 'vote only on Article 16 or 24, and we do not care about anything else'. Even in the case of the election of the President of the Republic, in which there appeared to be a difference in the previous debate and vote in plenary between Rule 30 and the other articles, what is the position of SYRIZA from the outset? SYRIZA was faced with a dilemma, which is heavy anyway. In this dilemma, on the one hand, we have to choose between a parliament which will easily go to the election of the President of the Republic, with fifty-five Members, as proposed by the New Democracy, and an easy recourse to a system where the people directly choose the President of the Republic. We know that both of these systems in their clean and inappropriate character have serious problems. And first, the election of a hundred and fifty-one votes leads to a one-party president, who cannot exercise the function that the President offers, but also the direct election by the people creates a pole, a diarchy, which is particularly problematic. What is SYRIZA's proposal? SYRIZA's proposal is interim. Seven, in essence, so that it is so difficult for us to have the direct vote so that we can have a President on the basis of the pressure that will be exerted, even socially, on the part of the Members, in order to give a characteristic way out. Finally, the SYRIZA proposal is honest and also in relation to the negative problems. The proposal for Article 16, namely that it should be maintained, that the public nature of higher education remains in the country, is a proposal which is well-known and reflects the renowned course of Greek universities to date and the will of the Greek people to the great majority. And, of course, it is well known that many are advocating higher education in the country, i.e. universities, which will have been selected by individuals. However, this is not something that is excluded under the current Constitution, which allows a university to be set up by individuals, provided that it is subject to the supervision of the State and to the rules of operation laid down in Article 16 of the Constitution. The dispute that appeared in the House on the basis of the proposal of the New Democracy, which was not accepted, was an argument as to whether we would have universities in speculation. The new Republic's rapporteur has repeatedly called for the introduction of speculative universities. This is something SYRIZA could not accept under any circumstances. And fortunately he does not accept it under the rules of our Constitution. Because speculation and knowledge cannot coexist harmoniously. Succession as a lack of selflessness is a bad condition for production and transmission of knowledge and ultimately distorts knowledge in the direction of the interests commonly enjoyed by sponsors of educational processes. I shall conclude quickly, saying that it relates to SYRIZA's essential proposal, and it is also the view that this House is expressing an opinion on the directions of the Review, which should also be binding on the next Parliament. And why is this proposal sincere and I think it is compulsory to do so? Because the direction of the Review arises from the reasoning of the Review, which at the moment as the first stage ends. There is no piece of legislation, nor would anyone say, but a very important procedural act which does not have a rationale. Of course the Constitution has its thinking and reasoning that is reflected in the directions. Because when we see why Article 86 has been revised, or why we have come to revise Article 86, we see where we have to move. So these work, which we have done and the reasoning behind it, show what the directions are, which the next House must respect. Of course, there are other arguments. The fact that the Constitution is set to apply for a very long time favours the view that Parliament's expression is also made in two separate votes, that is, it has a longer duration and an effort to express an opinion on the Constitution with one particular content. I therefore believe that these elections will take account of the arguments that I have put before you. That makes sense and constitutional. The Greek people will vote in the coming elections, wanting a constitutional reform that leads to certain progress in both the functionality of democracy and in the direction of upgrading individual rights and will not vote in favour of the choice of a government which, as far as the Constitution is concerned, recommends that there should be a white exchange rate, a white cheque and that it should be able to do what it wants, surpriseing or not having explained its vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Ioannis Tragakis, member of the committee bureau, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have pointed out to the Commission and also to the plenary that the process of the Revision of the Constitution is the top parliamentary procedure. It's not about the government or the parties, of course. It is only about Members. In the committee - in which Mr Paramadopoulos was chaired - who just came down from Stepma, I was a Vice-President and Mr Papatheodorou was a secretary - a good job was actually done. But today I was negatively surprised to hear some views in plenary which are in no way consistent with what has been said in committee. The committee has done a serious job. I believe that conclusions have been drawn which will be evaluated by the future scholars. You all know this - and in the highest courts, when there are conferences on constitutional decisions, the Minutes of this House are taken into account. I will see to it that I reply only to Mr Paradulopoulos on the attitude of Mr Mitsotakis, who mentioned. Mr. Mitsotakis, Mr. Parafapoule, has just been elected President of the New Democracy, in an unsuspecting year in January 2016, he visited Mr. Tsipras. They discussed a number of issues. In the areas discussed, the President of the New Democracy also put forward the proposal for the Revision of the Constitution. I mean, in any case, in time. Not in election time. In January 2016. It also had a proposal, which we have reiterated in committee, to go to a Review to which we shall vote on all the proposals of the SYRIZA - it is nonetheless not all, Mr President - and you will also vote for our own proposals so that there can be a mandate which will go to the people, because the people will decide. In 1974 I was a secretary in the House. Then Constantine Chatsos, Constantine Papaconstantinou and Constantine Stefanakis had decided the so-called post-majority vote. The post-majority what is it? It is the first House with a hundred and fifty one votes and the second with an eighty votes. Or the first with a hundred and eighty votes and the second with a hundred and fifty one votes. That was a system that worked. And why did it work? Because elections are being held. The Greek people will therefore have the proposals of the parties and from the proposals of the parties they will decide to create the conditions that will compare the constitutional reforms. These views are not currently relevant. They have employed the constitutionalists and in 2007 and 2001. I will stand by the point that I consider to be sovereign. We have been very concerned about this in committee: who is the nominated parliament? What responsibilities does the Proposing Parliament have and what responsibilities does the revised House have? We are the nominated parliament. So we're proposing now. The Proposing House does not deal with the contents. This is very important and we need to make it clear. And we don't make it clear right now. He has been employed on several occasions by distinguished constitutionalists. There is an opinion by Volos in 1933, by Kyriikopoulou in 1962, by Georgopoulos in 1963, by Mannesi in 1980, by Vangelis Venizelos and Dimitrios Tsatsos in 1984, that it is the proposed parliament that does not define the content. The contents shall be determined by the revised or revised Parliament. Mr. Katrugalos is missing today. He has referred to an opinion by Mr Pararas. I was also present, and Mr. Venizelos, but he was also Mr. Katrugalos, when on 10-12-2018 in the Greek Constitutional Union with our Professor, Mr. Mavrias, spoke to Mr. Pararas and expressed the view that, as far as the contents are concerned, the House does not commit. The Review House is committed. That's it. They've all come to an end. In fact, before we held our first debate on 12 February, Mr Mitsotakis had called his office and spoke to seven serious and authors. I can say that most of them do not belong to the New Democracy area. But I will mention the names: Nikos Alivizatos, Spyros Vlachopoulou, Xenofos Kontiadis, Antonis Manitakis, Kostas Botopoulos, Petros Pararas and Philip Spiropoulos. They unanimously agreed that the next House that will be revised in any way does not commit itself to the content of the revised provisions. In addition, they pointed out that this is precisely why the national elections are being held in order to place the electorate and on the proposals of the parties on the constitutional revision. I would like to take this opportunity, after we have made it clear, to deal with the topical and urgent subjects of today's sitting, Article 30(1) and Article 32, concerning the election of the President of the Republic. It is true that Parliament's policy has been in operation since 1985-1986 since the implementation and abolition of the so-called enhanced powers of the President of the Republic for thirty-two years. It has worked well, we can say, even in the period of the 1989-1993 crisis, which was a period which had serious problems and serious issues. Although the President of the Republic did not use the article giving him the right to check the constitutionality of procedural conditions for a referendum. We all have the traumatic experience of the 2015 referendum, which in vain questions was put before the Greek people to decide 'no' or 'yes'. So you realise that this problem has arisen over the election of the President of the Republic. This provision has been passed today, since our previous meeting, with two hundred and twenty-one votes. This majority I think gives the right to the next government, whatever it is - I do not preside over the electorate to say what will result in the next elections - whatever government comes out in the next elections, after we have all agreed to the committee and I think that the procedure for the election of the President of the Republic should be removed from the problem of the break-up of the House. That's what happened twice. It was in 1990 with the Government of Zolota then and also in 2014, when you with the Partnership and the Golden Dawn prevented Mr. Dimas President of the Republic from being elected and led to the dissolution of the Parliament and elections. So you realise that we can now see this. What does SYRIZA propose? It proposes six successive votes in Parliament and the election of the president by the people. We will take the possibility that these six successive votes will take place in six months. The question is simple and is really addressed to you, Mr Paradoxopoulos, and to Mr Dousina. If, in this six-month period, the government's term of office expires, if the Government resigns or if, for any reason, the President of the Republic disappears, this paradox will be the case. The next parliament to be formed after the elections will again want a hundred and eighty-one votes to elect a President of the Republic, while the current constitution wants a hundred and fifty-one votes. So this long-lived way of electing the President of the Republic poses a problem. So you realise that you will somehow have to consider your prediction of this six-month procedure. I would like to refer to a few issues relating to two articles which are very important. You said too that it was the crown of our proposals for Article 16 and 24. I'll talk about Article 16. I think we are losing a unique opportunity to establish non-governmental, non-profit-making, private universities.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u29	Your proposal was "profit-making".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u30	Our proposal is: non-profit.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u31	He didn't say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u32	And indeed, since you're causing me, under the supervision of the state. So, listen to examples. I know that this is true in almost all parts of the world, in the European Union 100%, but in all parts of the world. One example I will bring you: even in North Korea there are Chinese universities. So you realise that we are the only country to resist this. And let me get you another example: in Cyprus there are three state and six non-profit institutions in which thousands of students are in attendance, most of which come from Greece. There are many teachers, even through the parliamentary group, who teach Cyprus and so many relatives who go to Cyprus. Consider that, following calculations by the Republic of Cyprus, 5% of GDP comes from the revenues of these non-state universities. Can I get you another extreme example? In the occupied areas of Cyprus the Turkish Cypriots also have two public universities and five non-state universities. When the GDP of the occupied in 2015 was 1.6 billion euros, if I am not cheated, half of it came from the revenues of the non-state universities. So, with regard to Article 16, I think that if we miss the opportunity to vote now, we will go after 15 years - hold the number - to talk about the establishment of non-state universities. Of course - and rightly so - Mr Tasoula told you that within this provision there is also the establishment in each county of the country of model schools. We believe in model schools, because we believe in excellence. You don't believe in excellence. We believe that good people should go to standard schools to progress. So you realise that, if it is not now, if the next House is not declared a review, we will have to wait for the Parliament of 2028-2032 to go as a proposing parliament and the revision after 2032. You realise that after 15 years we will have the right to establish these higher education institutions. I'm going to stand in Article 24. Article 24 is also an important article for us because it gives solutions to problems that are accumulated. In fact, parliamentarians from the province will understand the problems now created by the Land register. It cannot be declassified for forests, because those aerial photographs are not used, which will give the right messages and produce the right results. For example, 1937, 1947 and 1952 aerial photographs are now used. Do you know that most of Athens' districts in these aerial photographs appear like woodlands? Do you realize what problems are created? What do we propose with the proposal for Article 24? The recent aerial photographs from November 11, 1975, were simply to be taken into account when the current Constitution was in place. So the dates of these aerial photographs should be taken. This would solve first of all the problems that Members of the province have with the Colombian land that were abandoned, in a way, when they came with the police force in Athens and later acquired a few schisms, etc. These aerial photographs appear and create those conditions that will help. I would also like to say a few words about Articles 62 and 86. First of all, I would like to make a clarification as to the irresponsibleness of Members of Parliament and the irresponsibility of Members. It is the irresponsibility of Members of Parliament to refer to Articles 60 and 61. In other words, the MP has unlimited thought and speech in the House and for his vote he is never controlled. That is the irresponsibility of the Members. There is also the impunity, for which we have all agreed in committee that it should be this and Article 86, which should be brought to the vote and, as we have already voted, that Members should have the same attitude as ordinary citizens towards the law. That's what they've voted for. Not all of them, two didn't vote. One point he raised - the Left from here is missing - was the question of freedom of opinion relating to politics, outside the House, that is what is called by Members outside Parliament. This is a very important issue and we should definitely be concerned about whether the constitutional regime in force is provided for. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the New Democracy is proposing a Constitution that is functional, serious, socially progressive, with important interventions and with regard to legislative power, which you have not dealt with at all, and with the judicial authority which you have not taken up at all, and with regard to education, which you have not dealt with at all, and with the environment, which you have not dealt with at all. On the environment, I am going to make a reference to the difference between sustainable development and sustainable development. In 1975, the concept of sustainable development was introduced for the first time, which each citizen has the responsibility of protecting the environment, and there was also sustainable development. Sustainable development is the one that gives the prerequisites for making various investments. In fact, by always following the fifth section of the Council of State, one understands that decisions are taken that give the right to create areas within forests so that recreational spaces can be created, that spaces can be created which, for example, create wind turbines that bring growth. We anticipate it in our proposal, clearly mentioning the RES, namely wind turbines and photovoltaics. So this is all in your judgment and it's in your judgment now. I would therefore like to invite you, to challenge you, but also to ask you not to miss this opportunity once again. The speaker has lost two chances. I was a vice-chairman of the committee in 2007, which was dismantled in 2007 because it did not attend the PASOK because it was contrary to Article 16 then, to be cleared, and in 2014, of course, it was a constitutional revision that could not work. So in this constitutional review, which I was Vice-President, I would like to ask that you allow us all to proceed with consensus. Let us not be bound by the first votes, to see the articles again, to see all of us, and you and us, the votes so that we can bring a good constitution, not for us, but for our children, our grandchildren, because the Constitution is always and remains in history. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, it has given me the honour of asking me a personal question, and I would like to answer it in a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u34	Mr Paradisepoulou, the parliamentary representatives will be given the floor. I'll give you the floor, but we'll finish this cycle. Remind me by raising the hand and I will give you the floor. I had told Mr. Papatheodorou beforehand. Mr Venizelos had also asked for the floor. Mr President, if you have no objection, we should close down with the three Bureau and then I will call on you to take the step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u35	I have no objections, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u36	Good. It will be followed by Mr Kalogero who has asked for the floor. After Mr. Papatheodorou, for a minute, I will give the floor to Mr. Paradoxopoulos. Here, Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are coming to the second and final vote in which, in accordance with Rule 110(2) of the Constitution, Parliament notes the need to revise the Constitution and its current decision specifically defines the provisions to be revised. In the wake of the last session of the Parliament, which resulted from the September 2015 elections, the project of the review process has evolved in the midst of a generalised indifference by society and civil society, reduced - and I do not believe that this can surprise us - of interest by scientific and collective bodies, of use by government and of limited time in the Constitutional Review Committee, despite the mild climate that prevailed at its meetings. One would expect, ladies and gentlemen, that in a country like Greece which has been stirring up for a decade by a profound political, economic, social and valued crisis, which has been affected by political and social division and the consequences of bankruptcy, the revision of the Constitution has been a great opportunity for the political system and for Parliament to redefinite the country's future in terms of renewal, growth and prosperity. One would expect that the Revision of the Constitution could become a new starting point that heals wounds, marks major national consensus and sectors in the state, the organization of institutions, the functioning of democracy and would focus on the citizen as a political, economic and social subject. It would also be expected that this Review would be a revision of national and political self-awareness, aware of the obligation of the parliamentary groups to respond to the needs of the modernisation of the Constitution, the modernisation of institutions and democracy. In this constitutional review there was neither mature time to consult nor those broad consensus between parties that would make the project a milestone in the process of organising democracy, the development of relations between administration and citizens, the renewal of parliamentary institutions and the deepening of citizens' rights and freedoms. On the other hand, in many cases, in many circumstances the party interests of the government prevailed, the self-interesting use of constitutional provisions. In the end, a constitutional populism, whose main expression remains the government and which has turned into a mechanism for altering the major institutional conquests of post-multiple and questioning the fundamental principles of parliamentary democracy, prevailed. We must not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that this constitutional review has evolved and is being completed in its first phase today by a minority government and a majority formed by the continuing mobility of MPs and ministers, by a process of dismantling parliamentary groups and direct attack and undermining the institutions, particularly against the institutions of justice. In this context, therefore, nothing reminds of the regularity of a review by the government, neither the political context, nor the reality of targeting, which is oriented in the future, has attributes of political atabism: we should go to solve problems of the past, either between party targets or between the majority political background. The only consolation of this process is that the current constitution, but also the institutions themselves, have demonstrated an excellent resilience to the attacks on corruption and undermining, thereby finally protecting democracy itself. In any case, however, the results of the review process that was initiated in the present and which will be completed in the next, following the elections, are poor. Our group came with specific positions in the review process and proposed them for discussion despite the fact that we did not have the number of fifty Members required to put forward a specific proposal. We have proposed the revision of Article 86, but also of Article 62. We have discussed the revision of Rule 32, so that the President of the Republic can be removed from the dissolution of the House while rejecting the majority's proposal for a direct election, in support of the need for a rational extension of the powers of the President of the Republic. For relations between the Church and State, we have proposed the adoption of an interpretative statement in Article 3 of the Constitution that provides that the term of dominance of religion does not restrict, or insults religious freedom, while rejecting the unclear and contradictory words of the current Constitution, Articles 3 and 13, references to religious neutrality, as well as contradictory references to Article 16(2) of the Constitution. For the revision of Article 16(5), we have proposed - and I was pleased that Mr Paradoxopoulos has today mentioned this in particular - the liberalisation of the dynamics of the public university and the possibility of non-state higher education institutions being able to operate under the conditions laid down by the State. I'll just say two words about it. It is certain that today it is necessary to liberalise the dynamics of public universities in the same way as universities have their own responsibility to structure self-financed postgraduate programmes fully recognised, so that public universities, in partnership with other public or non-public universities abroad or internal, could form programmes of study, undergraduate studies, either in Greek or in foreign languages, in order to form the basis for the development of the country as an international centre for higher education. At the same time what does today mean by non-State universities, why did Mr Tragakis also refer to New Democracy? The forms taken by the legal status of non-State universities are initiated by the private university, i.e. the university 'company', which reaches the university, which is non-State, but is supervised by the national quality assurance authorities. Why, even if we were to choose the legal status of a sui generis of university law for universities, could we not have the same development in the present form or change of Article 16(5)? Because it's something I heard and it doesn't really respond. No businessmen are interested in the establishment of private universities, interested universities, interested universities for the liberation of their dynamics and the establishment of non-state universities, which are supervised by the State. Why would that not be a basis for discussion that could bring together cross-party consensus? I believe that, unless we consider that what is being done and fought by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL at the level of postgraduate programmes at first, what is done by many universities in their partnerships and private foreign universities cannot be done on their own initiative. That is what we mean when we say that there are political purposes behind the debate and ideological strangles or, if you like, hard identities behind the debate on Article 16(5). We have also proposed - and it is very important - the strengthening of the role of citizens in the participatory democratic process with the personal presence of the citizens in the petitions they have submitted to the House, the setting up of committees of inquiry as the right of minority, the change of laws relating to large investments only by a qualified majority, so that a concrete and stable investment framework can be established in the country. Finally, we have proposed the introduction of the four-year political cycle so that political stability can be guaranteed constitutionally. We have proposed revising the provisions concerning civil relations with administration and justice for the establishment of the rule of law and the protection of citizens' rights against bureaucracy from which the citizen suffers, but also for the arbitraryness or long delays that violate human rights in the field of justice. Essentially all of these proposals did not create broad consensus, only in the first two, that is to say, Article 86 and 62, and it remains to be proved in Article 32 to dismantle the election of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of Parliament. In all the rest, there are divergent directions. However, the question of Mr Paradise's direction to the constitutional review remains crucial even in today's debate. I repeat what I had stressed last time, a month ago, in the previous debate on the Constitutional Review. The reform system established by Article 110 of the Constitution is based on a clear distribution of review powers between the two successive Bulgarians involved in the Revision of the Constitution. This system is based on the distinction between the determination of the need and the determination of the articles to be reviewed and the determination by the next Parliament with a fresh order of determination, the contents to be made by the new majority or the new majorities to be formed in the next Parliament. So the contents of the provisions to be reviewed are formulated by the next House, the second Parliament, which also has competence, which is why it is called "revision". Today we are deciding whether any revision should be made and what constitutional provisions should be revised. We do not commit the review legislator of the next Bosnia. After the parliamentary elections, the House will decide to dominate the new content of the revised provisions for a very simple reason. Because we cannot predict or prejudge majorities, representation, parties in the next Parliament. And that is the basic idea of the constitutional legislature. Today, however, where the present SYRIZA Government is in apparent disparity with the popular feeling, it cannot interpret Article 110 of the Constitution so that, on the basis of its heterogeneous and precarious majority, it commits the decisions of the next Parliament. I repeat, therefore, that the only commitment - and I am ending with this - of the revised Parliament, the next one, which will result from the elections is in terms of their provisions and their content, but not their content. If the historic legislator or researcher seeks the directions that are formed through today's discussions, that is a wealth of scientific dialogue. It cannot be a political direction for the next House. If you want, it has a research interest, it has historical interest, but it cannot determine the political direction of the next House. That is why it is now entering the first House's review decision, on the direction and content of the revised provisions, that the House cannot commit itself. We have proposed and implemented by means of a vote by a Member that, under no circumstances should the articles to be voted on be more than seventy-nine votes, in fact one hundred seventy-nine Members, so that the next Parliament, the next majority, whatever it may be, cannot form the content of the constitutional provisions unilaterally. This is outside the spirit and letter of the Constitution. I therefore expect that at the 1st session of the next Parliament, which will emerge after the elections, there will be awareness of the needs of the country, so that Members, Parliamentary Groups, who are in the next House, the Revision of the Constitution with broader consensus on the content of the provisions, in view of the national interest and freshly the mandate of the Greek people, which, I hope, will bring about the overthrow of political correlations and will significantly strengthen the forces and percentages of the Change Movement, so as to reconcile the next constitutional review. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Paraskevi, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Tragakis is not present, but in his own name I have explained what my answer is, whenever I can speak in the House, without omission. He said that it is possible to suspend the mandate of a government in the midst of the successive votes to be taken in order to elect a President of the Republic, and then we will have a malfunction. I would like to say to you that, in the opinion of SYRIZA Members, this House is making directions, it is not enough to formulate content. Questions specifically or questions of interpretation which can arise, of course, the next House can resolve them in the wider direction. In reply to Mr Papatheodorou's reference to Rule 110 of the Constitution, what the House has to find is the need for the revision, not what the provisions referred to are. And the need for the Review arises and what is the direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, Mr Venizelos, you have the floor. Immediately after Mr Venizelos, I will give the Minister the floor and the series of parliamentary representatives is opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first stage of the review is now being completed. And I am really pleased, because respect for the strictness of the Constitution and the review procedure, as is only organised by Article 110 of the Constitution, has finally been imposed. I would remind you that in 2016 this debate took place outside Parliament on a government initiative, although the Revision function was reserved exclusively for Parliament, while in the first phase of this debate, the early one, dominated the issue of the constitutional referendum, which would be a brutal insult to Article 110 of the Constitution. I am therefore pleased that everything has finally led to Article 110 and to its respect. The Constitution has shown that it can develop self-protection mechanisms against various attempts to circumvent it. It proved - or rather - that the country's problem is not a constitutional one. I wish the country had been a constitutional problem, because we could solve it by devoting, modernising, improving the wording of the Constitution. But the problem of the country is not a constitutional one and the Greek problem is not so easily solved. The debate must be brought back to the subject. The problem of the country is social, economic and particularly financial, development policy and it is, of course, institutional, but in the broadest sense of the term. It is a problem of quality of legislation, administration, self-government, political system, justice, economic governance. Faced with this overall and deep Greek problem, the Constitution operated and endured the period of crisis, offering a stable and strong framework of reference. The Constitution has helped us in these nine difficult, painful, contradictory years and we should respect this and declare it. In any case, we are in the era of so-called'multi-level constitutionalism'. The state is not the simple, traditional, sovereign state, the veto. It is a Member State which participates in European integration and in the international community. There is the phenomenon of parallel force of European and international law. There is international and European judicial control of the national constitution itself. There are many legal classes claiming supremacy in their scope. Nevertheless, the process of reviewing the national constitution, which is linked to the national constitutional identity, is irreplaceable. There are, of course, so-called informal constitutional changes through constitutional, European and international practice and through the judicial interpretation of the Constitution, in the context of judicial control of constitutionality. However, nothing can replace the change in the constitutional text, because every interpretation begins with grammar and ends in grammar, because the reasoning of the performer - and especially of the judge - is formulated grammarically in replacement or in substitution of the text of the Constitution. The proposals of the SYRIZA parliamentary majority and, more generally, its attitude to the vast majority of issues, will allow me to say that it had the following characteristics: first, it was petty and defensive. This concerns excluding the revision of Article 16(5) and (8) for non-State universities, rejecting the proposal to select the lead of justice by a qualified parliamentary committee with an increased majority rather than by the cabinet. On other points, the proposal and attitude of the SYRIZA was succinct, such as the attempt to introduce as a permanent electoral system of the mere analogous, and there must be room for the electorate to identify the Constitution in the course of events, situations and needs, of course, by limiting the system to be applied by the subsequent election, with the exception of a broad consensus. Other points in the SYRIZA proposals were rhetorical to demagogic, without real regulatory content. It was a raw expression of constitutional populism. Nothing needs the Constitution on social rights. Everything exists, everything has been interpreted, the regulatory content of Articles 21 and 22 is complete. The same is true of many other provisions, however, where the interventions are purely customary, rhetoric, they offer nothing. I refer to Article 5(2), Articles 101 and 102 for the decentralised administration system, for mountain and island regions and so on. But the same is true of Article 3 for the neutral state, which does not exist in the European Convention on Human Rights either. The European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, which is the custodian of religious freedom and equality, and legally uses the concept of religious neutrality, is founded on the wording of the European Convention on Religious Freedom, as is the case with our own Article 13. Article 13, in conjunction with Article 4 on equality, fully safeguards religious freedom and religious equality. The only thing that is needed in Article 13 is the addition of an interpretative statement, which is obvious and self-evident, that Article 3 does not establish restrictions or deviations from religious freedom and religious equality. Other points in the SYRIZA proposals were deplorative to the civilisation of parliamentary democracy. The proposal for the immediate, finally election of the President of the Republic, the convenience of referendums by collecting signatures, the demagogic proposal "Minister to be just someone who has the status of parliament, even when all the Members of Parliament choose a Prime Minister or a vast majority of Parliament", the block of elections following three parliamentary terms with the exception of the Heads of the parties and the former Prime Ministers, namely those who have political power and political influence. The problem is to exclude the ordinary Member, but to maintain the presence of strong political actors. What else can anyone add? And there have also been proposals completely irresponsibly since the experience of the crisis - completely irresponsible! - in relation to the European identity of the country. The proposal to hold a referendum in any case in which Article 28(2) applies, namely the ratification of a treaty with which powers are transferred to institutions of international organizations, places Greece outside the international system and makes it a stronghold of international constitutional populism. And, of course, this irresponsible attitude should also be included in the rejection of the financial rule, which is provided for in the current Convention for its coordination in labour and governance, in the Stability Pact. Greece is violating its international obligation, which has been explicitly foreseen since 2012, which has been passed by the Greek Parliament, which prevails over any formal law. And, of course, all this runs counter to the agreements made by Mr Tsipras on the primary surplus of 3.5% to 2022 and 2.2% to 2060, a raw lie, addressed to the Greek people that suffers the consequences not of budgetary equilibrium, but of budgetary over-discipline and destructive over-expansion, which operates in anti-development. Of course, there are also problems in the proposals made by the Officerial Representation, because the majority of them have had an inflationary trend, unlike the declarations for a simple constitution and the economy of the constitutional text. And the issues that want much greater processing and maturation, such as the change in the system of judicial review of the constitutionality of laws, the increase in the responsibilities of the Supreme Special Court and the revision of the same revision procedure, that is to say Article 110 itself. But the New Democracy's proposals for Article 16 were crucial for changing the way in which justice was elected. And it is a pity that these are not even introduced into the next House. The meaningless conflict in the second parliament's commitment from the directions of the first and the fall of the SYRIZA in the trap of the Constitution is the direct political result of this review process. It has been shown that all that matters is the number of votes, which shows the need for revision: one hundred and eighty and over, when the simple majority of the next Parliament is free, or one hundred and seventy-seven-nine, which is the crucial limit. The will of the electorate, expressed in the elections being held, cannot be ignored and therefore the second Parliament, the revision, is strong and dominating. The simple majority of the first Parliament cannot commit, in terms of the content of the revision, the increased majority of the second Parliament, which also has fresh legitimacy from the Greek people and, of course, has a clear mandate, which it has given in mind in the direction it has given to the Greek people. One more thing: the increased majority of the first Parliament on the need to revise cannot hide the internal contradictions between the parties that have voted to establish this increased majority. These objections are also put in mind by the electorate in order to resolve the dispute. So there is no question at all. A number of people who vote jointly for a provision which differs from the viewpoint of the electorate will make the difference of their perceptions different from those of the electorate. However, what I am saying has been overcome by the very procedure and decisions taken by the House with the vote or with the non-voting of SYRIZA. Because, in the package of provisions on the President of the Republic, the provisions under discussion on a proposal from SYRIZA eventually go to the next House - if they go - only two. Rule 32(4) and (5), i.e. the threat of the dissolution of the House. However, the revision proposed by the SYRIZA to Article 30(1) was ultimately rejected. It is therefore necessary to elect from the House, and there is therefore no dispute in the direction. Because the rejection of the revision of Article 30, in your vote against your proposal, resolves the issue of direction. The election will take place from the House. The question is whether Parliament should be dismantled in extreme cases, if not even the simple majority for the election of the President of the Republic. That's what you voted on. You have voted to put it before the electorate and the next House only this question: whether it will, of course, be elected without any threat of dissolution or a threat of dismantling if the majority of fifty-one is not assembled. So you have fallen victim to this defensive operation of the Constitution that protects its strict character and protects the character of the Head of State, does not allow it to be altered. The same was the case with the provisions on State and Church relations. There is no case now, with the marginal majority of fifty-one in this House, to revise paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 3. Paragraph 3 can be reviewed for the Bible text, which belongs to the dogmatic themes of the Church itself and to its religious freedom, or at most the interpretative statement that I have proposed since 2006 in relation to the relationship between Article 3 and Article 13 can be introduced. So the treasure's carbon! However, there is no exchange for the infamous Prime Minister - Archbishop in relation to property and payroll, because this has always meant a debate and an agreement in relation to the revision of Rule 3, which was already rejected by Parliament. But even on the question of the responsibility of the ministers, where the vast majority of this House accepts the need to revise Rule 86(3), do you realize what you have done? You did not get the misinterpretation of the article you made in the NoVARTIS case, so that the file could be sent back to justice, which has no jurisdiction to deal with the case, and you wanted the short-term misinterpretation of the Constitution to make it a final, authentic interpretation in the form of an interpretation. This interpretative statement will not be accepted by the next House, because it must raise a majority of eighty (80). Therefore, the misinterpretation of the Constitution was rejected. And that is now officially said by the House. All concerned must therefore understand that they are acting on the basis of an anti-constitutional decision taken by the House on this matter. Because you yourself, with your exaggeration, wanting to retroactively and heal your misinterpretation, have finally led to the rejection of this misinterpretation and the supremacy of the interpretation of the judiciary councils, the current case law. And I hope that all those who have to act in the name of legality and the rule of law will receive this message, because the House has decided on this matter. As far as non-State universities are concerned: the major issue is not non-State universities. The major issue is liberation, emancipation, colonization, censorship of public universities, modernisation and promotion of public universities. But now that Article 16(5) and (8) is not introduced for revision, does European law cease to apply? Article 16 applies to the Greek legal system, but the education systems of the other twenty-seven Member States are in force in each Member State. Greece therefore has every opportunity, within the framework of European Union law, to promote cooperation with foreign universities, to promote cooperation with countries where it is allowed, and the establishment of non-State universities, and in general to organise the system in such a way that children have the greatest possible wishes, equality of opportunity to gain real meaning and the university, as a centre of excellence, research and teaching, to acquire features modern, integrated and, of course, fully competitive in relation to Europe and the Western world in general. As long as donors, sponsors, foundations and international cooperation are activated. Fortunately, the 2001 review acquis is still intact, because the only real, ambitious, overall, consensual review of postpopulation is the 2001 review. A key historical and institutional lesson has been drawn from this process in recent months: Without consensus and without political culture the Review is neither necessary nor feasible! The 1975 Constitution, as it stands, resisted the crisis, resisted the attack of the juncture and small-scaleism and proved its historicity, which we must respect and on the basis of which we must organise the future of the nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u42	The Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has the floor, Mr Kalogerou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the risk of the next national election will, in our opinion, be progress or maintenance. And no matter how many people try to express opinions that everyone is the same or that ideological lines, ideological controversies are no longer indifferent and that ideological lines are no longer clear, we believe that this is not the case. As much as society is changing, separating ideological lines were, are and will remain clean. The risk of the European elections, the clear choice in the European elections will be between - in my opinion - the killing of extreme right-wing populism and, on the other hand, the enlightenment, all rights, solidarity and the European vision. And they will be both very big bets, especially when in the last few years - the eight memorial years that have affected the social body - were a result - among other things - of the cooperation of neoliberalism and social democracy, under the doctrine 'TINA' - there is no alternative - which has led to the formation of a boom of a social majority in many countries, which has suddenly been expressed with political results which I am sure none of us expected a few years ago. Who could have imagined Brexit? Who could imagine the rise of the far right in many countries of the European Union? In recent years - and in these four years of governance of the SYRIZA - there have been key political points - in my opinion - where this division is clearly formulated. The first key political point - in my opinion - is the negotiation since 2015 and the way in which the last financial adjustment programme has been implemented, the locations made by all political areas during the painful negotiations and evaluations. So that was the first key point. The second key point is the Prespecies Agreement and the solution to the Macedonian question, the unrealised screaming or pseudo-patriotism, which is still intensified today to alter the pure features of an agreement, which solved a historic pan-European problem, which was created. We all know the history of this problem and the positions that had been clearly expressed by those who had handled this issue, positions which they have forgotten even themselves. The third key point - in my opinion - in this ideological controversy is constitutional revision. Clearly, SYRIZA's proposal is ideologically political. It is not a politically neutral proposal. That's why it seems a number of times annoying. We have heard before that some articles dealing with rights are inappropriate, that changes to articles dealing with the organisation of civilisation and democracy are left-wing populism and that the proposal of SYRIZA is an anti-development proposal too. That is why I say that it is clearly ideological in this debate. What should be formulated - I think it is clear - is that the Civic Opposition - and not just - denies and does not vote for specific proposals: the proposal for the revision of Article 3 on religious neutrality and the revision of Article 13 on political oath. In other words, it voted against all the proposed changes in the direction of safeguarding religious neutrality, remaining - in my view - established in anachronistic perceptions and in a spirit of dialogue and understanding that even the leadership of the Church of Greece itself has demonstrated. Second point of refusal: supplementary motion for a resolution by SYRIZA Members on the revision of Article 5(2) with regard to the ban on gender discrimination, an unjustified change. Fearful - in my opinion - of its deeply reactionary wing, the Qualified Opposition refuses to increase expressly equality and to ban discrimination on the basis of gender identity and sexual orientation. On the other hand, there are meetings, photos coming from contacts and the Chief of Police Response with members of the Community, in order for communication to base a narrative on it. But when it comes to putting us on these issues, then we move away and vote against. The proposal, too, on social rights - very important - for a decent level of living is being voted down. What for? ‘Public control of basic social goods’ is also voted against. What for? The New Democracy is clear that it does not want the State guaranteeing the decent living of its citizens, universal access to effective health benefits through the RIS, social welfare and the guarantee of public control of basic social goods, such as water and electricity. It wants - and this is clear - a public weakened, degraded, depreciated, and then privatising critical structures. The same applies to equal pay for equal work, regardless of the age of the worker, and to employment rights. We have arrived today in the Constitutional Review to discuss matters relating to labour rights, having received unemployment at 28%, having made all this titanic effort, having reinstated collective negotiations, having resolved key issues relating to labour law and, of course, to the minimum and underpaid wages. At the same time as these are happening, the constitutional review in this direction is considered unnecessarily unnecessary and leads to the decision of the Officerial Response - and not only - to vote against the specific proposals of the SYRIZA. It is clear, moreover, that the view of the Officerial Response has been formulated, both in terms of labour rights and in terms of the insurance system, the so-called "Pinochet" from the New Democracy. There was also a supplementary proposal - important in my opinion - concerning the revision of Article 25(3) of the Constitution on the principle of leniency and the abolition of a provision on abusive exercise of rights, leniency in exercising and protecting rights not as a favor or a privilege, but as a form of redress of justice. Sammun jus summa injuria. In this proposal, of course, there is a need to avoid a rigid application of criminal provisions. An article which has not been discussed and I do not know whether it should be discussed in this Constitutional Review is Article 76(6), that is to say, the procedure for legislating, the procedure for codes and the setting up of the legislative committees. On the occasion of the topical and urgent debate, the legislative committees require institutional respect. The proposals made by the Legislative Committees are pure proposals from the Legislative Committee and are the beginning of a specific dialogue - substantive dialogue - by a legislative committee representative, which will continue its work, taking into account the results of the public consultation, which should be clear and should not be blurred because of the micropolitical and communication needs of the parties. Because reform of the penal codes is extremely important. On this occasion, I tell you that issues which are already under discussion have been raised by the legislative committees, and it is important that we all be careful. No proposal from the Legislative Committee has altered the protection of the legal order on the issues of the possession of explosives, for example, which is being discussed in detail today. The use of explosives remains a felony. What has always been misused, according to the proposal of the legislature, is the possession and indeed of a new penal system, which is provided for by a criminal prosecution, in respect of these matters, for which the penalty will be drawn up. I am quoting the parentheses of the amendments to the penal code, because we will have the opportunity in particular to discuss them as a result of the public consultation and of all parties. The SYRIZA proposal on referendums is also annoyed and voted against. It is also a sign of its own political approach, and it is clear that the New Democracy's view in relation to what we have heard is left-wing populism, that is, the Prime Minister's parliamentary status, the duration of MEPs' parliamentary mandates, but also the electoral analogous system and, of course, the election blocks. In relation to Rule 86 with the Law on Responsibility of Ministers, first of all the proposal that had been submitted to the last review effort by the current Chief of Staff Responsibility has made it clear that here he actually made a proposal which had been signed by other Members as well. But then they were the government majority and had the opportunity to amend this article. I therefore think that this has been made quite clear. It seems at first level that a first consensus has been reached by this House in relation to the amendment to Rule 86. But the question of the interpretative declaration of Article 86 is particularly crucial. The interpretative statement makes it clear that the scope of the article refers exclusively to offences committed in the exercise of ministerial duties. That is to say, it changes the content of the provision, on the one hand, since it has been in force and not from now on. What is - in my view - a crime without wanting to do so? The crime of corruption. What is the result of the first vote? The result is the number ‘1979’. And what do you plead even today? Do not exceed ‘180’. In other words, the clarification of the Minister's responsibility in relation to specific offences which have been committed on the occasion of status - a question which has indeed dealt with the case-law - is a clear statement which can give light and give a clear economic way out in relation to criminal cases which have political endings, and in this case it is intended not to be voted on by '180), i.e. to make it extremely difficult to vote in a next House. It is revealing - in the opinion - of the intentions of those who support the view that this should not be reviewed. I took this route of these articles that, in my opinion, have a clear ideological sign to do with the proposal of the SYRIZA government majority. On the other hand, what didn't happen? What were the proposals in terms of Officerial Response and not just? First, the annoying protection of the forest. Secondly, private universities, a timeless ideological confrontation. Thirdly, the budgetary strand, the balanced budgets. Fourthly, as far as justice is concerned, there are proposals in relation to speed in the administration of justice, in my view, they are resolved by formal law and there is no need for constitutional revision. As far as critical is concerned, the proposals were mainly concerned with the choice of the lead of the courts, where indeed judicial associations and the judiciary seemed to mean that there was a need to amend this article. However, no one has come up with a proposal which is a consensual proposal on how to choose. Others spoke of the government majority of fifty - one. Others have spoken of a tank which will be chosen by an enlarged parliamentary committee. We have followed the debate and no one has come up with a clear proposal. What else was the proposal in relation to justice? Abolition of diffuse constitutional control. And one last thing, the increase in the retirement age of judges, a matter that had been occupied by the Ice Bay's Plenary Assembly two years ago and which resulted in a decision that said not only that there is no need for constitutional revision - it did not result in that in the Ice Bay opinion - but that there is no need to increase the retirement age limit. I conclude this brief position with specific assumptions: indeed, I agree that the Constitution has endured, withholded eight years of memorial latitude. I am also sure that the Constitution will continue to stand. However, the lessons of this eight-year memorial tragedy are concrete and I think that these proposals for revision, as they have been recorded by the proposal of the members of the SYRIZA, illustrate a picture of the next day for society. The direction in the Constitutional Review is bet, it is a progressive bet and I want to believe it will be won in the next House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u44	We shall proceed as follows: I will give the floor to Mr Stavros Theodorakis and immediately thereafter the Secretary-General of the Communist Party of Greece has called for the floor. Among the leaders, if not everyone is present, the parliamentary representatives will also speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u45	He's Mr. Javarras too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u46	It's written. We're watching him, Mr. Chiara. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. I have a different reading of today's sitting. I think it's a farewell ceremony. We say goodbye today to three, at least, great missed opportunities: We welcome, first of all, the hope that Greece would join modern countries that will not ban non-state universities. It won't happen. The children will continue to leave for the countries of the North, but also for Albania, Romania, Turkey and Cyprus. We were talking here the other day, a few days ago, in Parliament how we would deactivate the demographic bomb. One would think that the first thing to do with a political system and a government would be a great effort to repatriate students. But, gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you insist that you refuse our proposal, our proposal, but also the other parties on the existence of non-state universities, with the explicit assurance that they will be non-profit-making, they will give compulsory scholarships and will not be financed by the state budget. All this in your decision today, you say that the country will discuss it again, the House will discuss it again in the next decade. We welcome today's opportunity to limit the immunity and therefore also the arbitrary nature of the policies. The big parties will continue to share immunity, transaction and bargaining in the House. You have not accepted, gentlemen of all parties, the proposal made by Potami to decide on immunity or not of Members of Parliament by a majority of judges and prosecutors of the Court of Appeal. The modernisation of the immunity of Members also goes for the next decade. We welcome today the only chance of a united solution to the choice of the Presidents of the Republic. You have not accepted all the parties again the proposal made by Potami in cooperation with a number of constitutionalists - to say this more correctly, with the assent of certain constitutionalists - that the President of the Republic should be elected by an enlarged electorate, with the participation of the Members of Parliament, the districts and the Members of Parliament and the Mayors of the twenty-one larger towns, a body of thirty-fifths of five elected by an absolute majority to elect the President of the Republic, when the two votes in the House of Three hundred would have been fruitless. So we're in a parliament that doesn't listen. The New Democracy does not want a new relationship between the State and the Church, with respect for Orthodoxy, in the religions of everyone, but at the same time without metropolitan interventions in education, individual rights, the burning of the dead, and SYRIZA, respectively, does not want an independent justice, with leadership that will enjoy broad democratic legitimacy. He wants, as all the governments in the past wanted, leaderships appointed by the Minister of Justice. We are a parliament that doesn't listen, because everyone thinks only about the party interest. Can it stop being Greece? It's a question. What has happened over the past few days, on the occasion of the revision of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, is another proof that we do not want to hear, we do not want to discuss, we only want to reaffirm our political sovereignty at any time. The two committees, the revision of the Criminal Code and the revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure, have the head of excellent lawyers, Christoforos Argyropoulos and Theocharis Dalakouras, who continued the work of the Committee of John Maneledakis and the Commission of Vassilis Markis, who neither accept party orders nor depend on the favors of politicians. Instead of listening to the proposals, to think, to let the legal community discuss the changes, to monitor a scientific debate, and then to speak, populism, legal populism, with some from New Democracy, to reject at least all the changes that have been proposed, to be discussed for at least ten years and some of the left to decide that molotovs do not kill. And molotovs kill and right populism kill logic. We will have time to talk again, but the Potami clearly says: we are in favour of modernising criminal law and criminal law. We also have a question and an opinion on the changes proposed on individual issues, on criminal organisations, on the possession of explosives, on the definition of rape, but we have an obligation to wait for scientists, prosecutors and judges to speak first. We therefore call on the other parties not to crush the reform of the Criminal Law in the party millstones, to move forward, not to waste another year. We want a new Criminal Law together with a reform of the Penal Code and, as I have said before, the Act of Paradisepoulou, which, after its successive amendments and extensions, has evolved into a law of general forgiveness, which releases horizontally and indiscriminately with the same criteria as serial criminals and petty offenders. The country, ladies and gentlemen, needs to reform and modernise law and harmonise it with the best international practices. Ladies and gentlemen, in about seventy-three days, Europe will decide whether to proceed to a European regeneration - as President McCrone calls us - or whether to stand still and even worse will take steps back. I am afraid that the vast majority of the country's political system does not envision any regeneration. No European, no Greek. The regeneration of party power was, is, is and remains the only goal of most. Unfortunately, the debate on the Constitution is another proof that the only thing that the parties are interested is how they will perpetuate their own power. But the aim of the citizens is another. It's a Greek regeneration. To allow citizens to see Greece otherwise, Europe else and eventually their lives else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, forty students and students and four teachers from the 11th High School of Ioannina. Welcome to Athens and the Greek Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u49	I very much urge the President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece and the Secretary-General to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, anyone who still doubts the polling character of SYRIZA's progressive call for a constitutional revision of the government. SYRIZA not only accepted the previous reactionary constitutional revisions of the governments of New Democracy - PASOK, but sought to add new reactive provisions. Here are the big, strategical, shocks with the New Democracy and the PASOK, KINAL. Behind these false dilemmas for an anti-neoliberal and progressive review the common goal of all of us for an armoured political system is more capable of satisfying anti-popular politics, more hostile to the people and their movement. Let's see what priorities of the ruling class SYRIZA's proposals are. Firstly, the effort to ensure greater governmental stability. That's what they say anyway. But this in itself is also the best proof that the attack on the working people, on the populace, will continue unrelenting in the next period. This attack is also the essence of fair growth behind which the government and other parties are charged. It also shows concern about growing discontent and indignation. That is why the Government considers it imperative that constitutional changes be moved quickly, in order for urban policy to go hand in hand, but also to be more effective, whether integrating or suppressing this discontent. That is where the proposals for disconnecting the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the House and the proposals that introduce minority governments for the first time are called a constructive vote of censure, against SYRIZA, or a stable and undisturbed four-year parliamentary circle, in the New Democracy. They serve to guarantee the constitutional preservation of the life of the people's strata during the time of the crisis. That is where the aim is to guarantee the efficiency of social security, as well as the non-guarantee of compulsory free universal access to health, based on SYRIZA's proposals. This is also the aim of the constitutional safeguarding of the compromise with poverty, whether it is called a'reliable level of living' against SYRIZA or a'supported minimum income system' in the New Democracy. Thirdly, they serve to safeguard measures for the recovery of large capital and to adapt the role of the State in the new conditions. That is why the revision of Article 101a, with the aim of bringing the administrations of the independent authorities, which have proved to be tools in promoting the interests of the ruling class in a number of sectors of the Greek economy, irrespective of the government's changes. That is why the proposals for the revision of Article 101 for local administration, so that a number of areas which are the responsibility of the central government, can be directly passed on to it. This is why SYRIZA's proposal for state ownership in the distribution networks of water, electricity and so on, so that the state can operate more effectively as a wheeledman in intra-commercial competition. Fourthly, they are serving to restore the rotten civil system from the beginning of the debate in committee. With the debate on Articles 62 and 86 to take precedence over the rest, the constant references to scandals appeared to be the serious effort of all other parties to build a new Shiloam swim on the urban political system. SYRIZA, of course, took the lead in this effort as a newly established and well-known moves to his government's shape of officials from all the Memorandum governments. But his proposals also resulted in micro-projects for the revision of Article 86 on the criminal liability of ministers, away from his total abolition, as proposed by the JRC. They are limited to abolishing the shortest deadline for the limitation and rejecting the JRC's proposal to effectively remove all obstacles so that ministers like all other citizens are persecuted and not dependent on the current government majority. Despite the attempt to raise supposedly Chinese walls between SYRIZA and New Democracy, their agonizing joint effort to ensure the stability needed for the large capital is not hidden. Although SYRIZA's proposal for a direct election of the President of the Republic from the people did not pass on to the first vote - a point that the New Democracy disagrees - it is likely that SYRIZA's art will be unfolded once again in the reversal of reality when it does not suit him. Because the SYRIZA and the New Democracy agreement in the main remains. They agree to enshrine in the Constitution the main axis of measures taken by all the previous governments and three Memorandums. They call for the State's intervention to be made more effective in the interests of capital in the economy, for people's compromise to be made with poverty, with paid rights. Both do not say a word about the articles which guarantee the supremacy of the European Parliament with regard to national law, namely Articles 27 and 28, since these often constitute the besieged ram, the basis for abolishing in practice the rights enshrined in the Constitution. Jointly they do not speak of articles that give foreign and logistical money. On the other hand, the SYRIZA Government has set up a whole series of arrangements for the vessel owners’ promises, which voluntarily offer 10% of the profits earned by imported natural persons, but are exempted from any other obligation and are not, of course, affected by all the privileges guaranteed by Article 107. It is true that the more the strategic agreement between SYRIZA and New Democracy is revealed in all these issues, the more tiring they are trying to raise. On the one hand, SYRIZA should call on a allegedly anti-neoliberal, supposedly progressive, so-called democratic fronts, to present his proposal for the Constitution as an allegedly large democratic cut and on the other hand, New Democracy trying to forge itself as the responsible force against - says - in SYRIZA populism. How progressive, however, is SYRIZA; it is seen from the attempt to constitutionalise the policies of previous years that plunged the lives of our people, even whatever rights typically reserved the Constitution. It is supposedly defending the right to education and health. On the other hand, it continues its trade policy, sub-financing, promotes social security compensation, moves on to tens of thousands of auctions in the next period, depriving and any protection left to the people's families to avoid losing their home. Even the article on the protection of animals has not dared to vote, and if it were a proposal for a government parliamentarian. How progressive SYRIZA is is seen by the policy that limits and any democratic rights that are typically enshrined in the Constitution, and let it allegedly call on the fronts of democratic forces, while at the same time cutting the right to strike, it denies the real popular initiative, such as the proposal of the five hundred thirty Unions, while setting conditions for the referendums to remain a prerogative of the respective government, for example. It does not touch Article 48, which devastates people's rights, freedoms, such as mass political action, the action of parties, trade unions, public meetings, freedom of the press. At the same time, the government has no power to demand, i.e. to use foreign-owned facilities used as bases by foreign military forces within the Greek territory. How progressive SYRIZA is is also seen from the policy it promotes to shield the profitability of large capital through the state's most effective regulatory role in monopolistic competition, the burden on people's income through transfer to local government agencies of more responsibilities with similar remuneration, etc. It also seems from the policy that literally respects the reactionary requirements of the Constitution, I have predominated the ever-greater tie to the European Union and NATO and the direct involvement in dangerous designs, the transfer of sovereign rights, despite various patriotic krone at intervals. It also seems that it does not dare to go ahead with a series of overtime modernisations, such as the abolition of Article 86, the safeguarding of simple and unadulterated analogy, the complete separation of the State - Church, the removal of the government from the appointment of judges of the Supreme Courts, their personal development or their disciplinary action. It seems even from the deafening silence in the JRC's proposals for abolishing the articles which provide for the passage and retention of foreign military forces and the transfer of sovereign rights to international organisations - Articles 27, 28, 80 -, silence in the JRC's proposals for a ban on the crossing or installation of nuclear and chemical weapons on Greek territory, for the abolition of Article 48 and the concession of special privileges to foreign and armament, for the modification of Article 18 so that mineral wealth, social goods, public areas in mountain volumes, sanctuary, archaeological sites are not granted to third parties for exploitation. It appears in the proposals to guarantee, without restrictions, free collective agreements in the public and private sectors and to abolish the constitutional ban on the permanentisation of contractors. And Tsipras has the courage to lift the finger to anyone who is not compiled by his attempt to wash away urban policy, his attempt to take out the capitalist economy by reproducing the well-known logic "whoever is not with us is against us". In fact, it is hypocritical at least, not to say anything heavier, that SYRIZA lifts the flag of fighting against the extreme right, against fascism, when it defends the European Union and NATO while, with their own policy, their official policy, European Union and NATO fuel the positions of the extreme right. By slapping people's lives, the extreme right fishes in the blurred waters of popular discontent: the theory of the two extremes and the strengthening of anti-communism on the one hand and the return to Nazis on the other as supposedly liberators, as it does in a number of Central and Eastern European countries, the European Union, which illegally draws communist parties into urban democracies, supports the coup in Ukraine, supports the coup in Venezuela and so many others. With the racist policy against immigrants, which is a rule in hot spots, these today, modern concentration camps, as well as the reactionary 'Dublin' regulations, the repression of the European Coast Guard and others. It is this same SYRIZA who ran four years, please, with the extreme right ANELs, familiarizing much of the Greek people and youth with extreme right and nationalism. It is SYRIZA who has been dragging the Golden Dawn trial for four years with unjustified delays. The JRC has tabled proposals specifically for the protection, expansion of trade unions and civil rights, for the abolition of articles relating to the assignment of sovereign rights, for justice, for the complete separation of State-Church. However, they were all rejected by both SYRIZA and the New Democracy. The JRC voted against the proposals aimed at strengthening and shielding the urban political system, promoting Euro-Union and Memorandum policies under the barbaric title "Enlargement Social Rights", the SYRIZA proposal for Article 28(2), and holding a referendum that will be at the disposal of the government concerned. In particular, the proposal for a constructive vote of distrust reaches the point of motions of censure which are voted for by the House not to lead to a fall of the government and elections, but to seek new governmental shape with another prime minister or to remain a minority government that has lost its majority in Parliament or in the people, only to unnecessarily continue its anti-popular work. At the same time, the proposal for a direct election of the President of the Republic by the people objectively, directly or in a future Review, will pave the way for enlargement of the role of the President of the Republic to the political system, with a possible increase in its responsibilities, something with which the JRC disagrees. This last proposal was rejected by Members of the government. The JRC voted'residences' in Articles 3, 44(2) on popular referendums, 54(1) on the electoral system, 54(4) on the vote of the homosexuals. The JRC voted in favour of SYRIZA's proposals for Article 3(3) on the recognition of equal pay for work and the prohibition of affiliation, Article 22(1) and (4) on the safeguarding of political oaths and President of the Republic, Article 33(2) and Article 59(1) on the establishment of a popular legislative initiative, Article 73, the abolition of a time limit and the suspension of proceedings, proceedings or the main procedure against a Minister from Parliament and an interpretative statement on which offences during and not on the occasion, Article 86(3) on the establishment of a proportional electoral system in local elections, the establishment of local popular assemblies and so on, Article 102(2). In particular, for Article 86, the JRC voted to encourage its review, but criticised the fact that both the SYRIZA proposal and the New Democracy proposal do not touch the core of the law on liability of Ministers, which is the possibility of a parliamentary majority exercising or withdrawing the criminal prosecution. Therefore, these proposals do not implement the constant request for the complete abolition of the Law on the Responsibility of Ministers so that there is a level playing field with ordinary citizens. The JRC claims and will continue to claim its complete abolition. The JRC also voted in favour of supplementary proposals to safeguard the absolute protection of life, the honour, the freedom, without discrimination of sex, gender identity and sexual orientation, Article 5(2), the protection of wildlife, the welfare of all animal species, Article 24 A, the introduction of the principle of educiary, Article 25(3), for island and mountain areas, Article 101(4). The JRC voted in favour of two proposals by the New Democracy: the possibility of two committees of inquiry per parliamentary term from 2/5 of Parliament, Article 68(2), and the prohibition on active or appointed judicial officers for three years after their departure from government or placed in political positions, Article 89(4). As the debate is closed, the common reactionary direction that serves New Democracy and SYRIZA, which only the JRC fights both within and outside Parliament. On the one hand, the positions and proposals that break labour rights, which are served by new bipolarism, and on the other hand, the service and the defence of workers' interests, which the JRC is presenting to the people in order to become the object of the labour movement and of its struggle, are highlighted. The JRC invites workers, farmers, other city workers, young people, women of popular families, scientists, lawyers, intellectuals, any progressive man, not to show confidence in urban parties, their governments, their fascist, and also their expression in this House. They serve the interests of big capital, monopolistic groups, multinationals, the European Union and NATO. We tell them to turn their backs on so-called democratic, progressive calls that give an alibi to the criminal policy of the United States of America, NATO, the European Union, other imperialist organisations in the region. Only the great, decisive reinforcement of the Communist Party of Greece can give a decisive blow to fascism on the far right, tearing down the Golden Dawn from the third place. This should be a key criterion for our people, for our youth today, in the next elections. This must also be a personal objective for every democrat, every real progressive man, every left-wing man, in general every goodwill person in our country. Really dominating, it can eventually become the people, when it itself owns the wealth it produces. The people have the right to fight with all forms of struggle, which they choose in such a direction. It also has the right, but it also has the power to shape the preconditions for the change in the constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u51	Thank you. Mr. Javarras has the floor for twelve minutes. I would ask the parliamentary representatives to observe the time, so that, if possible, the Heads of State or Government may also be given additional time. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that at the level of the discussions which took place at the meetings of the committee dealing with the issues and the issues raised in the proposals for the Review of the Constitution, there was an exemplary procedure for the management of the work by the Bureau, but also for the high level of the dialogue that took place. The fact that, with the exception of a minimum of exceptions, the media has not accepted to present these meetings proves and certify the reason for the truth. The first question, however, is why, from such a rich and such high-level dialogue, we have a poor harvest in a proposal for revised provisions. Here, of course, the answer I think is simple: what prevented the majority from opening up to the proposals of the opposition is precisely because it acted as a guardian in the minds of colleagues and ideology, but also the sense of power, which gives the majority the logic of democracy, which we serve. It is a fact - and no one can question it - that there could be a greater approach to the question of Article 16. Why should the majority not retreat to a position, for example, which would say that Greece too could be able to establish non-profit university institutions and actually make a composition of both views? This was not possible and it is clear, because the ideology of the state of state from which SYRIZA is implied deprives him of the possibility of realizing that, beyond the state nasty, which operates suffocatingly in the operation of our universities, there is also another area of freedom, which is contrary to all kinds of state intervention and why, precisely, universities must exist and operate without preconditions. We must also open up to teaching and research paths of freedom, paths of creation. Unfortunately, however, this also requires the discharge of university institutions from the suffocating state supervision which, unfortunately, Mr Gavroglou means only to serve as antenna. Of course, Minister, I would say that in your speech you considered this reproach unjust, given to you on the part of the Officerate-General, to represent you in this Chamber no longer - and you cannot hide - the so-called scourge of populism. Indeed, you represent left populism. It is not only the difficulties that we have had in confronting in the debates in the committee, but it is precisely the case that you are feeling a sense of awe in the face of Civic Opposition. Why? Because Acoustic Opposition is the party, which in the Greek Parliament represents liberalism, that is, the political philosophy of modernism. Indeed, it does not suit stateers to make proposals, which attempt to give a feeling that they are fighting for human rights or the rights of the individual much more than a liberal party is fighting for it. Why? Because what we call modernity began with a fundamental and historical declaration that changed the flow of the Western world. This declaration is the Declaration of Human Rights and Citizens. So it is not possible for you, the representatives of stateism, the representatives of left-wing populism, to feel that you have a greater responsibility to defend the provisions of the Constitution guaranteeing human and individual rights. And I don't say it, if you want, tax-free, I also have arguments. For example, all the debate that has been consumed on the issue of religious neutrality in the state, obviously it is a debate which has no value and no meaning in the matter of defending human rights. Because while you are well aware that freedom of religion is fully guaranteed by Article 13 of the Constitution, the declaration of all possible extraditions, which has so far been historically invoked as a project for human and civil rights either in the form of the European Convention on Human Rights or in the form of the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the European Union, despite the fact that you are aware of this issue, you are striving to amend Article 3, which does not affect at all the functioning and effective exercise of the right of individual and human to freedom of religion. But why are you doing this? Just because the state from which you are behaved, it gives you the right to believe that if you remove some symbols from those that operate and form identifiable, the Nation, such as the cross from the flag, such as the cross from the native, such as a series of other such symbols, you will have succeeded in achieving this much-conscious separation of the State from the Church. But it is not a historical issue and it has never been raised in Greece, because you obviously confuse the fact that 1648 we never had in Greece. The Westphalia Treaty, which put an end to religious wars, concerns all the other states of Europe except Greece. Why, what has the Westphalia Treaty declared in 1648? What is known as the ‘cuius regio, eius religio’. In other words, what had to be solved is that the sovereign, ruler, state should not have confused relations and at the same time have the power in both matters of religion and in matters of secular power. Such a subject was never raised in Greece. Unfortunately, however, with what you are bringing today, and on the basis of what you are saying in all the discussions that are taking place, you are trying, while there is no such issue and never has been raised, to introduce a Protestant logic in matters relating to the State towards the Church. And that, of course - you will allow me to make an intervention in this way - to parallel it with this famous Bogomillian minority, which was there somewhere in the 14th and 13th century, as descendants of the Palikians, who in this richness of sects, in fact, tyranted the spirit and religious consciousness of the Byzantine era, had indeed brought many of the elements to the fore, which you today believe: communityism, the abolition of all symbols, the worship of uncle, the nonexistence of the temples and logically, the logic of Protestantism, which says that everyone is a priest of himself. That is why you, as the Left, have served as an unprecedented anti-circular mania, which is not justified. Because the clergy - and that certifies Article 3 - and our relationship with the Patriarchate confirms a story that no one can write it off, no matter how hard it tries. And this story is that clergy and state in the struggle for nation’s regeneration were harmonious coexistent. T Time one last thing. Yesterday - so that you do not have the complaint that I wrongly blame you for left populism - I think the Prime Minister in his speech in the parliamentary group has resolved the slightest doubt that there could be on this matter. When for the first time yesterday we heard that a forefront was formed between the many represented by the SYRIZA and the elites represented by the New Democracy, we now have no other way of reading this terrible transformation, despite the writings of Ernesto Laklaou and Sadal Mouf, those who really connect SYRIZA and Chávez and Maduro and, in essence, lead to a overthrow of the values of Marxism, in which you now seem to believe not. For the first time yesterday, the Prime Minister is calling on you to fight against the New Democracy, which represents the elite, and indeed the luben elite, because you do not want to be exposed to those elite members who worship you and serve you, not for free, but for some exchanges. So because you do not want to be exposed to them, you have even defined that the mob, the vulgus and the knit follows the New Democracy, and you are followed by the chosen elite. From there on, you will allow me - because there are many ideological persons you are using - to simply refer you to a very nice passage from Luke Gospel. This is the time when Jesus meets in the land of the Gadareans the possessed one, whom heals. He's asking him before he's cured: "What's the name on it?" And he answers: 'Specials'. And Luke commented that many demons entered him. Because, on a permanent basis, you are sowing many demons into society, notice, because in the elections the people, who are a doctor of everything, can take these demons away from society and bend them to various ghosts that you have in your mind and with which you do nothing but chase your political opponents. That is why I think we have had the opportunity to discuss a high level, but unfortunately, today's harvest is very poor in provisions for revision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much. Mrs Vaki has the floor. You will not finish with Luke, now we have entered Sarakos and now the tweets and politicians will speak with the evangelizers etc. It's the time!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. I will also respond to the populism of the dear colleague of the Officerial Representation. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the second vote. I believe that there has been a constructive and very rich debate on the constitutional review. So let me stress again important points. This process of reform of the Constitution is dictated by the dual necessity, on the one hand, to lift malfunctions and practices which have undermined parliamentaryism and the principle of popular sovereignty in recent years, on the other hand, the strengthening of democratic and judiciary components of the constitution. The global domination of neoliberalism, which in the country cloaked the form of violent fiscal adjustment programs, broke into the relationship between citizens and politics, injured the parliamentary institutions, undermined the social state, defied the functioning of legislative power in an observer role, and even artificial prime ministers and was marked by a dramatic deficit of democratic legitimacy, described by the terms 'post-policy' and'post-democracy' - anti-political and anti-democracy would be more appropriate - replacing politics with social engineering, implemented in uncontrolled economic and political centres, which take decisions in the absence of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this constitutional review is to shield democracy in a period of frustration. To create in other words stubbornness to those who heal it, that is, neoliberalism and extreme right. To guarantee social rights, which have been circumvented during the crisis, but also to protect the commons. The commons that became abundant in an ideological obsession with privatizations. The term, which is used primarily, "stabilisation" of the Constitution, therefore, is equivalent to constitutionalisation of public goods and social rights, in direct confrontation with the neoliberalisation of the Constitution, which the enthusiasts of social inequality want and which set the top priority of the revised material of the balanced budgets. Because my colleague, Officer Opposition, talked about populism...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u55	He's got a name!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u56	For right-wing and left-wing populism - you have also put this divisive section - I do not know about you how the term is meant to be, I think it is a misguided signifier, which is capable of so many definitions that are actually canceling it. Nevertheless, as you put it, I believe that you are offended by populism means that everything that refers to the city's armour, often becomes the scarecrow, which persecutes every attempt by a people who are devastated, sittin' down to return to the forefront and claim equal liberation. And what you are abdicating on this term, for us - because you mentioned it - is nothing else, despite all the great modern tradition, the tradition of modernity, the tradition of human rights and of the citizen, that is, the mitigation and elimination of inequalities. From there on, ladies and gentlemen, on the opposite side of what you despisingly call populism, what do you put? You put an ill-considered excellence, a definition of the nation, which goes way too far from the tradition of modernity, and refers to anti-lightenment, the nation as the ommon and the homogeneous one, and of course, you have as the primary concern of blowing inequality. A democratic constitution is not confined to the foundation of individual rights and freedoms of the typical liberal rule of law, but also to the safeguarding of social rights, which guarantee a material level of living, capable and necessary to defend the dignity of the human face. Let's say it differently. A democracy worthy of its name requires the constitutional foundation of rights which mitigate, eliminate social inequalities, the treatment of which must in no way be left to a generally formulated obligation of the State or to charity. The constitutional foundation of universal access to medical care, education, in common, namely water and energy, which have been degraded by this obsession with privatizations and are not a condition of prosperity, but of simple survival, requires the attempt to rebuild the social state and social justice, the foundation of which is the equality of access to public goods for everyone, regardless of their value and their individual qualities. Here, allow me, because there was also a great deal of talk from the Vice-Presidents, and a brief mention - we had discussed it last time - in Article 16. I have one word to say: we must not forget the definition of the university. A university as defined by its founding treaty, what is it? It is the public area of free teaching and research that institutionalizes its administrative autonomy and democratic consultation of the members of the community. You, colleagues of Officerial Response, report to the private universities all the time. I have not heard you talk about non-profit institutions once. Your reference is made exclusively to private universities. And because in the academic community we are well acquainted with, with private universities, you are also referring to other countries, which are regarded as models, in schools, in essence or in colleges, which cure little, very popular, profitable cognitive objects, without any participation in the international academic community and without any participation in research. Do we want this education? This guy's colleges? I don't think so. Ladies and gentlemen, in this context of the founding of common and social rights, I want to make a reference to our proposal for Article 22. This proposal protects this work, by guaranteeing the right to equal pay and equal value of work, which has been annulled and the disgraceful underpaid wages, protects collective bargaining, the right to unilateral recourse by the social partners to arbitration and the principle of more favourable regulation. If for the Chicago Boys friends who inspired Pinochet, the security is identical to private insurance, which - what is he doing? - it puts all the poor and weak in the way, for us, security refers to the social right to universal coverage, within the framework of a public redistributive system based on the principle of solidarity. I come to Rule 86, which is agreed by the majority of the National Representation. Very important, because it was ultimately not the invisible hand of the economy, but the visible hand of a system that infiltrated public life, transforming state functions and public offices into corruption chambers and means of serving private interests. So let the revision of Article 86 be carried out by an institutional security net and the antidote to the scandal epidemic, which has entrenched and which has been one of the domestic causes of the Greek tragedy, a tragedy that depleted 1/4 of national wealth, condemned Greek society to poverty and succumbed to the future of the younger generations. E E E E E E E E E E E E E say too much has been said, too, and they are said daily, let it be made clear that the fight against corruption is not dictated by moral obsession and the teaching of some imperials, which are beating the sword of the moral advantage on their political opponents, assuming that by punishing them, they are to be eroded and the system that has excavated them. Every day's fight against corruption is primarily a fight to defend democracy. Because democracy means, among other things, lifting inequality and a fair distribution of wealth and, of course, lifting the illegal accumulation of wealth. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to close my speech by making a special reference to Article 3 in our country, which has never had an anti-climate tradition, has never been deepened into the banquets of Enlightenment and, unfortunately, has been introduced, in our country, which, unfortunately, has recently revived national self-determination and where the nation is not defined as a community, which is part of common values or of the nation of citizens, which have been inherited from the long 18th century and the great revolutions, which have also given birth to the first modern constitutions, but as the homogenous, homogenous and homogenous, in whose name crimes have been committed and exclusions and societies have been divided and incubated the egg of the snake. So this article in our country is of major importance. Let the constitutional review process finish what was left unfinished the Enlightenment that passed us. Let us finally establish the discrepancy of Church and State and let us establish, even now, a state of neutral religion, where it will apply "the Caesar's Caesar's and the things of God" and will not observe the phenomenon of a religious state and of a clergy, which politicians and intervenes either in the contents of courses or in foreign policy. Ladies and gentlemen, in a climate of consensus, mutual respect and trust, as the rules of democracy do, let us dare to take some steps towards the enlightenment, democracy and the construction of the social state, on the basis of which I would say, not the small but the great picture, which is not good, the image of our old continent, which, unfortunately, seems to have lost its historic memory, its spiritual and political deed, and which is a Europe where unfortunately the light of Enlightenment is dwindling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Vaki. Mr. Carras, please, you have the floor. I would ask that we keep the time. Thank you so far for Mr Javarra and Mrs Vaki for being precise in their time. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIZELOS", thirty-six students and students and three teachers from the High School of Vitinas Arcadias. It's my country, too. I say it comfortably that I'm not elected there. Be good guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, thank you. When we debate a constitutional review, we must have two axes before the eyes. First of all, to make an evaluation of the previous constitutional regime and how it worked. To identify the needs that arise - since we are also associated with the changes, due to a period of time, which has elapsed in society, the economy, morals - and then, to hold a debate on constitutional revision, since we have seen the need for it. Why am I saying that? I put another parameter, if you like, for the constitutional review, the parameter of the preventive functioning of the Constitution. The Constitution must not only cure flaws of the past or solve problems. The Constitution must provide for risks, situations, which will be created in the future, so that it will give stability to the city, to the economy, to society, so that they do not fall apart. We have a recent example in our country in the decades of crisis, where there we can make an assessment of the current constitution and its revisions. I shall express a personal opinion. It did not demonstrate those tolerances, which were required not to be brought to the crisis, because since the panic of the crisis, the constitutional function has, unfortunately, retreated from the need for loan contracts at that time. So, today, when we are facing a debate on a constitutional review, after recording these thoughts, we must see how it will work in the future. In the future, therefore, in order for our place to function and in accordance with the principles we express as a Change Movement, it needs two issues. First of all, the defence, the preservation of social rights, and on the other hand, in order to preserve social rights and strengthen them, the country needs economic development. And here I am now obliged to speak about an economic constitution, if you wish, in the sense of those provisions, which will ensure economic development, or at least the preservation of the present state of affairs, and gradually increase national income and its redistributive role. I fear that the Constitution, as proposed in its amendment at least from a governmental point of view, does not take into account these parameters, which are very important for social, if you like, stability. I will give two examples. The first example is that these days are a topical issue of the protection of first residence. The institutions are being consulted, ratings are being delayed, we are living all this awkward. But what is the mandate, what is the requirement of the Constitution? The Constitution's claim is that the State must provide adequate housing conditions to the helpless. Ladies and gentlemen, I am talking about Article 21(4) of the Constitution. And the question that is being asked at the moment, with the uncertainty that exists in the Greek people, about whether or not it is possible to retain the first home that it received with a loan that it could not respond to, is this: The Constitution provides this guarantee? Does he provide this protection? Should we not have seen the possibility of amending Article 21(4) so that we have anticipated - the government is, of course, forgetting this because it only attempts to save the banking system - the adoption of an institutional law that protects the first residence? Empty! Unaffected by the constitutional initiative of the government. I didn't hear any of this. I hinted, got over it. Secondly, there is a great deal of talk. We are now talking, ladies and gentlemen, about the country's situation, about demographics. What will the Constitution tell us? The Constitution must ensure something else that the present does not guarantee. We have a youth's departure. They speak of four hundred to four hundred to fifty thousand young scientists, a potential that is lost. What does the Constitution provide for? What is the government's proposal on this point? I'm afraid of nothing. I didn't hear anything. There's a proposal here too, if you want. Do you know what the proposal is? Simplified, even characterize it. Four hundred to four hundred thousand young people have left, contributing to the economies of other countries. The Greek family has invested, invested the Greek state billions and fruitful labor, income and taxation of their work, foreign countries. What was the Greek Government's reaction? None! Shouldn't, during the crisis, have called for the creation of a compensatory fund financed by the governments of the host countries - I am not talking about the Juncker packages, I see them going far behind, but is it not their purpose - which would create, in compensation for the loss of human resources in young Greeks in their country? That's not why I heard anything. Of course, populism to blame foreigners, but without asking them to compensate us, is always a good thing and it is an easy policy. We can deal with many issues of constitutional review, from the artificial provision of Article 32, for the election of the President of the Republic, where we are talking about a number of series of votes, after a period of six - seven, if I have retained. These don't have to be, it's very simple. There is one solution, not to jeopardise the stability of the electoral cycle from non-election, to give a relatively increased, not one hundred and eighty-eight, majority, and, as you know, in this House, to elect a President of the Republic, or, if not, to be able to extend his term of office. These issues have not been answered clearly. We have not discussed the administration, the justice that is the daily life of the citizen. We haven't discussed any of this. And you know why? We're talking about investments. We're waiting for the investments. What investor will come with the minimum investment, when we have managed not to have a banking system and, in addition, to the slightest trade gap between businesses takes three, six or nine years, if we run out of all three degrees of justice, to determine who is right or wrong? And usually, you know that better than I do, these differences concern the public, the administrative act that is issued when it is rejected or restricts the person he wishes to invest. You know what? I come from the private economy. The money where there are, they're not stowed, they have to pay off. Everyone has a claim to pay off their money. From a small deposit to the bank to get the interest rate - and this is what the Greek is deprived of today and the interest rate is essentially low and cannot be "weighed" according to the commonly called capital. What prerequisites do we make on these matters? We are talking about a surplus of 3.5% over the next three years, and we are talking about a 2% primary surplus. How will it be ensured? No proposals have been made, no answers have been received from the government, and so we are putting colleagues in. I'm afraid we're jumping. Do you want another example? We have not just resolved issues in the constitutional review. We talked too much about Article 16 of the Constitution. It is very simple to accept non-profit universities. The framework exists. If it is a non-existent liberal policy to establish private universities, let us leave it aside. But let us accept non-profit making, with the supervision of the State, but not if you like, in the form of a legal person governed by public law, as provided for in the provisions of Article 16, so that sponsorship can also function. We have examples in Greece, thankfully. The benefactors seem to be coming back. This summer, we had two donations from major institutions to health. There are possibilities for education, and we do not want to exclude these. That is a matter. Of course, relations between church and state, in my personal view, do not require any intervention, no revisions. Because since we have Article 13 on undignified religion, it is an individual right that cannot be called into question in Greece, interpretations of dominant religion express the nation's sympathy with the church. Traditional ties that confirm coexistence. Neutral religion, which sounds at least in my own perception, does not mean anything. I cannot interpret it and I cannot understand how it will contribute to the liberation of spiritual powers, even if you want to say that religion and caging are often backwards. I don't understand it. What I want to say - to finish, because I see that time is very little - is that the argument of the next Parliament's commitment to the decisions of the House today, as to the content of the revised provisions is not convincing. Why, what does the letter of the constitution clearly say? It defines the revised provisions of the first House - the nomination - and the revised decision. But if the reforming House decides on the contents, and if that content is the case, what is the subject of the Review? There is necessarily the interference of the elections between the proposal and the Review, because the people are now talking about the people. So what is the authority of the review? We have misled the power of the next House, the review with such interpretations. Such arguments should not be heard as to the content of the provisions that are being revised. We - to finish, Mr President - have declared that there is an attempt to interpret outside the Constitution, if the next House is bound, and on the contents from which the result will come. We are not currently making predictions of the results. The people know how to vote, they know where to direct their vote, they know what they want and often they are wise. It's not always. So what did we say? The Group of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement will vote for one, in order to give our political signal, our positions in the Constitutional Review and we will allow power in the next Parliament to exercise its full sovereignty, so that the people have been expressed in the meantime, so that we can say that there is the real constitutional review. Finally, Mr President, let me also express a personal legal opinion. I think that five years for the next review should not depend on the failure of the previous revision. Compliance with the five-year period depends only on those provisions which are revised. If they have been rejected by the Proposing Parliament, I think the next one may propose their revision and the subsequent revision, because otherwise, we are creating a full commitment to both the sovereignty and the power of the House. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u59	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-nine students and students and two educational attendants from the "BIRKEROD" high school in Denmark. The House welcomes you and welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I call on the Chief of Staff and Chairman of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Mitsotakis, to step in.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, today it is going to close, unfortunately, a cycle of lost opportunities for the real institutional modernisation of our country. And I am really sorry, Mr President, that this debate, which is the presumption of the top-level procedure, involving Parliament, is being held with the chairs of this House to be empty. The revision of the Constitution, in fact, remains at the moment and in practice confirmed what we had pointed out as a New Democracy since the first time, that even the charter of the country was dealt with by SYRIZA as a partisan tool for cheap distraction. Let me remind you again quickly of the facts: On July 25, 2016, the government lighted the Constitutional Review with red color. She forgot, however, then to draw her back after thirty - one months. To do what exactly? To compress the debate eighty articles at just eighteen meetings of the Constitutional Review Committee and finally to table a proposal of twenty-three pages full of either institutionally dangerous or meaningless verbalism and obsolete slogans. After all, the SYRIZA rapporteur himself, Mr Katrugalos, had confessed: 'We will make any changes we want, but our main objective is to prevent the changes that you want, that is, the Civic Opposition, for ten years'. This was cynically stated by Mr. Katrugalos. Since the beginning of the procedure - rather, if I may be more precise - than the first meeting with Mr Tsipras, I have just been elected President of the New Democracy, I have proposed a simple, clear solution: to vote - at least with the agreement of the two major parties in Parliament - all the articles that we and SYRIZA consider that the next Parliament - should be reviewed, since the popular verdict has meanwhile been mediated - to decide on the content of the articles. We would thus turn the next elections into a substantial debate on the content of the constitutional review itself. However, the Government has refused this proposal and followed a process which, at least, has shown different views between the two parties on the Constitution, in the end of the very operation of our own democracy, but which, in these circumstances, could never end up with what should be the main issue, the greatest possible consensus on a modern and functional constitution, which will be the compass of a modern and functioning state. SYRIZA has tabled a series of proposals, which we do not hesitate as a new Republic to characterise as disastrous, such as the constitutional introduction of mere analogy, so that the country will never have a stable government, the six-month votes for the election of the President of the Republic, which lead to a paralysed period, referendums with signatures even on the Internet, so that people can use them, as they wish and, of course, completely inappropriate formalities, concerning relations between the State and the Church, which create problems rather than solve them. On the contrary, the government majority had nothing to say and nothing to contribute to this debate on the constitutional review of the major issues of the present and future. No proposal for a modern public administration! No proposal for open education! No proposal from the government majority for an independent judiciary! No proposal for effective local government! Cuvet for balanced budgets, stable taxation, how the Constitution can help to simplify and make the investment environment more attractive in the country! Cuvet for the minimum guaranteed income, for everyone's health! You, the left of ecology, sensitivity and the environment did not find a word about modern environmental policies! Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy has tabled a formulated proposal with changes to fifty-nine articles from one hundred to twenty and the abolition of eight obsolete orders. For the record now - because the proposals put forward by the New Democracy to the vote, most of them at least, will not be put to the vote today, as they did not gather the number required - is worth reminding the tenth of the important constitutional reforms that New Democracy has put in the public debate. Firstly, the state must continue and effectively establish a stable electoral cycle, limiting the reasons for the early dismantling of the parliament. Economics and society to be detached from the hostage of party purposes. Secondly, the President of Parliament is elected by a qualified majority. However, when this is not achieved, the symbol of the module shall not be converted into a split.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u61	The President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u62	The President of the Republic. To be chosen by the simple majority of elected representatives of the people. The third chapter deals with the upgrading of the Parliament, with rules of good legislature, but also with strengthening the role of a minority. Constitutional safeguarding of the fight against crime and pluralism and codification of all legislation. Fourth, immunization of justice. We have proposed - and we have never heard, Mr Tsipras, that you have rejected this proposal - the choice of the highest courts to go through the government in this House, to strengthen the guarantees of independence of judges and to establish constitutional means for speeding up the administration of justice. Fifth, modern public administration, merit, assessment, recompense and efficiency. Citizens themselves may be able to assess the services provided by the State and the AACC to be able to acquire a central role at all levels. Sixth framework of proposals: Real empowerment of local government bodies, more responsibilities, self-resources and increased accountability of elected representatives. Seventh: Reinforcement of the welfare state by constitutional guaranteeing the minimum guaranteed income, but also the obligation of the state to offer health, education and security to all Greek citizens. Eighth: a stable, but also a development economic environment. Rules to prevent financial derailment. Obligation on balanced budgets, but also to strengthen healthy competition between growth and investment. We also suggested that taxes and other charges should be imposed on the future alone and not retrospectively, as, unfortunately, they are still often today. Ninth: Substantial protection of the natural environment through the modernisation of Article 24. Climate change, the greatest long-term challenge facing our country today, to find its place in the Greek Constitution. Tenth - which could also be the first - complete autonomy of public universities with state aid, but also the possibility of establishing private universities under the strict supervision of an independent authority. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is such a necessary reform that we stop leaving young children abroad, the economic bleeding of their families, and Greece becoming a real educational city in the Mediterranean, across Southeast Europe. All this was submitted by the New Democracy documented in the Review Committee, but also in plenary. And despite the valuable efforts of our rapporteur and the members of our committee, at least at the last moment, to formulate a broader framework of understanding so that some of these proposals - even at the last minute - were rejected by a qualified majority, the government rejected all of this. I would remind you that a month ago this Step I personally proposed to Mr Tsipras to assume a common responsibility towards our young people and tomorrow, to vote together - at least - on the need to revise Article 16 and Article 24 on education and the environment. You didn't dare, Mr. Tsipras, do that either. I'm really sorry. And I'm not sorry about you, I'm sorry about the country. I regret the future of the new Greeks who are deprived of the opportunity of all their peers in all the countries of the world. That is why I will say it again today: unfortunately, this debate will take place in history as a great lost opportunity, a great historic opportunity to make substantial, brave interventions in our Constitution, in order to start a great way out of the future that our country so much needs. It will be an opportunity, of course, to compare this climate of extreme toxicity and polarisation that you insist on cultivating, the possibility in this Chamber, such as the Constitution itself, at least sometimes, to put aside our party purposes, to do - wherever necessary - mutual retreats for the good of the country, for the good of the future generations, so that we do not permanently send the image to the Greek citizens of a confrontation that is often so meaningless and so toxic that, ultimately, they are the citizens themselves from politics. Unless that's what you're looking for, Mr. Tsipras. Ladies and gentlemen, two categories of provisions have arisen from the adventure of this lack of constitutional review. The first category includes articles that were voted for by more than one hundred eighty Members of Parliament. So they will be reviewed by the next House with a simple majority of fifty - one MPs. They are provisions on the responsibility of Ministers and Members, on the election of the President of the Republic, on the establishment of independent authorities. These are also supplemented by two more proposals from the New Democracy, which have been accepted. They'll make it easy for you the next day, at least one of the two. With the first proposal you will also be able to propose that committees of inquiry be set up, that is to say, a minority right, while the second proposal - the provision - is that military judges should be treated as other judges. That is the framework in which we finally managed to agree. It's very poor in relation to the real needs of the country. The second category includes articles that now raised fifty votes, but not a hundred eighty, so to be reviewed in the next House, an increased majority is needed. Such provisions are the simple analogue, referendums, the separation of Church - State, other SYRIZA's idealisms, which all democratic parties reject. Don't bother. These provisions will not be discussed at all by the next governmental majority. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In this context, I have three comments to make and one proposal: Firstly, I would like to reiterate that the New Democracy will literally observe the constitutional tradition of the country. The next House does not, I repeat, commit itself - in the direction which the House is proposing today. She will define the contents of the articles now proposed for revision. That is what the Constitution stipulates, that is, that all constitutionalists are in agreement, that is what has been done in all the revisions so far, and that will now also be the case. The undertaking to destroy the freedom of the review parliament, which, of course, also constitutes an indirect admission of defeat by SYRIZA, is insulting the Greek people, because it very simply tells him that his vote, which will take place between the two Vulks, has absolutely no value. The second comment concerns the question of the election of the President of the Republic. Since Article 30 has not, at the end of the day, been revised, the only proposal that exists, in fact, on the table is, under Article 32 of the Constitution, the President of the Republic, elected by a qualified majority. So if SYRIZA really means that he does not want the President of the Republic to become a lever for the challenge of national elections, just as you did, of course, in 2014, he will - I imagine - do the simple thing: he will vote in favour of Rule 32. That, at least, you're committed to doing, Mr. Tsipras. And I do not imagine until the vote on this matter changes your mind. Thirdly, and more importantly, the provisions proposed by the New Democracy and rejected by the SYRIZA Members, those which will never be put to the forefront of the second vote. And they will, unfortunately, remain in force. As I told you, they concern extremely crucial chapters of the Constitution: public administration, justice, financial balance, education, the environment, the social state. With your attitude - I want to say this again, in order for all Greek citizens to listen to it - there will never be proposals for strengthening the functioning of the House, ensuring rational administration, introducing financial rules, changing the architecture of the state, strengthening municipalities and regions, supporting the independence of judicial officers, strengthening the country's development prospects and the substantive rule of law, and, of course, changing Article 16 of the Constitution, which, unfortunately, as you have done, is referred to around 2030. This is the reality and all Greek citizens must listen to it. Once the review is completed within the next year, it takes five years to relaunch the review process and two Vultures to complete it. We will therefore have the sad privilege for the next decade to be the only country - otherwise progressive - in which the establishment of non-governmental and private universities will be legally prohibited. Congratulations, Mr. Tsipras! Congratulations, gentlemen of the Couple! However, these and through the debate which has taken place, political differences of two worlds have been tested throughout the entire period, which we represent: true progress and maintenance and regression. And because I see you wonder, I ask you some simple questions: Who is it today, Mr. Tsipras, really progressive? The one who seeks a dynamic and open education, with genuinely competitive public universities, but also private universities, or the one who prefers to perpetuate the current situation? Children who leave Greece, those who stay out of work and those who study, often be hostages of occupations and molotovs. Who is, after all, the real reformer? The one who wants an effective and flexible state in the service of the citizen or the fan of bureaucracy, which will always be charged with party parties, but will we pay them all the others with the taxes we pay? Who's the real person in charge of the place? Does the constitutionalist care not to jeopardize the country as much as it is, but is the one who is constantly growing or the one who is ultimately indifferent to overall prosperity, dealing only with poverty benefits and a public wealth that wants to minimize it? Who's finally a democrat? Who's modern? The one who claims - and proves it in practice with his proposals - independent justice, free information and transparency in public life, or the manipulating the institutions, threatens judges, threatens journalists and puts the party above Parliament and the Constitution? The one who cannot ultimately separate the government from the two other powers, which is the core of democracy, and, of course, who is indifferent to climate change, as if it were a problem that should not be dealt with through constitutional assurance? Ladies and gentlemen, it is no accident that the process of revising the Constitution has also fallen, not only because it has in the end been used as a means of undermining a great effort of institutional modernisation, but also because it has, where appropriate, been imposed as a diversion tool against the government's successive failures. The Constitutional Review was incorporated into a comprehensive anti-institutional concept of Mr. Tsipras. It started - and I would remind you - as the 'SYRIZANEL' initiative. It ends up as a process of SYRIZA and a few willingly. What's your name now? SYPROS? Progressive agreement? You have changed your title, or so you tell us at least, to give a name, a new roof to the willing ones you now want to house. But, in the meantime, you have become - as much as this is annoying you - a rag government, with the result that other MPs, from other parties, start the debate on the review and others end it. That's the definition of the rag government! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] To serve these opportune political needs, Mr. Tsipras appealed to a series of anti-constitutional practices. Initially you also thought of a constitutional referendum - let us not forget that - for the provisions you wanted to put to a review. You have then followed an express procedure which undermined the very role of the House. And in the end, you have attempted an unconstitutional attempt to commit the next House. In other words, lasting political and institutional elegance. Only we know that very well, democracy has no dead ends. And in a few weeks' time - more than two months, in fact - we have elections, local and European elections. Elections that the people will in any case turn into a referendum on the government and its policy. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] They've almost - you know - four years of local elections. No parliamentary elections were held, no local elections, no European elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u63	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u64	So it will be the poll on 26 May, whether it is triple or it is quadruple, a chance for citizens to speak with their own voice. And on May 26th, in any event - whatever you finally decide, Mr Tsipras - all Greeks will judge what they have experienced for four years, namely, two memoranda, twenty-nine new taxes, pension cuts, debts, over two million seizures.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u65	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u66	And they will judge - as unpleasant as you may - a new national wound that recognizes Macedonian identity and Macedonian language in the Skopje. It will also be judged on the list of 26 May. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Lies, constructions, divisions and a huge wave of vulgar propaganda and cheap demagogicism. Four years now you are systematically poisoning the country's political life until the last minute. And if I'm judging by your speech yesterday, you're getting worse all the time. And in a hopeless attempt to save - and this is what the government is doing - it is culminating in procedures, it is working on changes to help the voters who it has hired for a post, it wears and appoints until the last minute, and it holds a few votes. They are the symptoms of government lightness, while the atmosphere in the country is extremely heavy. Even a few weeks before the election, Mr. Tsipras, you keep lying. The one who has cut off the CSR and the widow's pensions speaks of anti-grassroots measures - which we have neither announced nor will apply - which are allegedly coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u67	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u68	But the reality is hard. It doesn't change with insults, lies, and slander. A normal political life does not exist, unfortunately, without a modern democratic charter. What investor will trust a bureaucratic administration, a state without a stable tax regime, without independent justice? And what citizen will progress if the state does not provide him with opportunities, security and protection of his rights? And what democracy will eventually develop without absolute - absolute! - discrimination of powers, objective information and a right to culture for all? Ignoring the country's urgent needs, SYRIZA cynically selects a reform that is distorted to serve purposes and which eventually moves to the least common denominator. It is not just a question of - as I said - of a lost opportunity, but of a serious historical error. Today, then, it is an opportunity to choose a model of functional democracy within a modern and rational constitution. That's why we voted. But that is what the citizens will judge us soon too. And everyone knows now - and you know that - that on 26 May there is no room for painless choices. There is no room for easy protests, for pointless votes in forces that cannot change the flow of events. The message must be sent and it must be resounded. No vote will be lost, because everything is finally judged in the poll. And that will be the case, Mr Tsipras, the truth with lies, growth with delay, dignity with cynicism, real patrioticism with landscaping. Mr. Tsipras wanted to make SYRIZA a regime, at the same time that the country wanted to come out of the poverty of populism. He's not gonna make it. Greece will proceed without Mr Tsipras and his company. I say this again - and I close with this - from every poll, whether it is three or four, and from every corner of the country, Mr Tsipras, on Sunday 26 May, the voice of the citizens will be one and it will be clear. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] They'll send two messages. A message of disapproval of a government that deceived the Greeks, which has made their lives worse and which has nothing more to tell them about how to make their future better. They will, however, send out the citizens and a clear message of support for the New Democracy, because Greece deserves better, because we can do better, because we know and want to finally go home!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u69	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Alexis Tsipras, Prime Minister and President of the Radical Left Parliamentary Group. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. This is obviously not the first time we have been discussing this House for the Constitutional Review. I think that there is no precedent for a review process that we have discussed so many times. And I think at least your initial comment is unjust, that it is a process that takes place in the faint - erase, which is done in the leg. There has been sufficient time both in the committee responsible, but also in the public debate. And that was an innovation in relation to previous constitutional revisions, but - I want to believe - it brought citizens closer to the essence of the proposals for the revision process. It was unfortunate that your position on empty bearings was also. Although it is not the first meeting, it is a good thing that Members, at least the two parties, the co-population and the major opposition are present. Ladies and gentlemen, to get to the point, despite the fact that much of what we are discussing has been sufficiently discussed over and over again, we are now completing the first phase of a procedure that is a top parliamentary procedure. A top parliamentary procedure, initiated at the initiative of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. And, of course, this says, despite the fact that almost the largest portion of those who are publicly placed at times about the need for reforms in the country's Constitution - the political system that we have known to govern the country for over forty years - has had the opportunity to attempt sectors, institutional reforms for the progressive and institutional modernisation of the Constitution and has not dared to do so. Or when he dared it, he was led to arrangements, such as the famous law on the responsibility of Ministers, which, to all of us today, must be ashamed of the political system, or of reforms that did not actually result in bold interventions, such as the revision that was completed about ten years ago. We therefore consider it necessary for these large, deep reform areas that we are proposing today and consider top institutional intervention to be an instrument of constitutional reform. Because in a legal order like ours, the constitutional review is precisely that, i.e. the top parliamentary procedure. And as such, we have faced it, unfortunately, with others in this Chamber who have chosen independently - I am not talking about our views, but about our attitude towards the process itself - to play cheaply micro-political games, opposition games with the Constitution itself, that is what they blame us for. They have tried from the first moment to undermine, to disguise the process of constitutional reform, the dialogue that has begun. We have now seen the devaluation remarks you referred to in the public debate opening event, as if it disturbed you in the red color on the back I was speaking to. The House wasn't painted red. But what's your problem with red color anymore? It is a color of many colors that has the rainbow. But that's not your problem, that the back I was talking to was red and not blue. Your problem is that this top institutional process began on our own initiative that you tried to undermine, you tried to block, to create stumbling blocks. On the contrary, we have considered that this review is extremely critical. Critical, I would say, especially now that our country is coming out of this dramatic experience of the memorials, this peculiar situation of exception imposed on it by the bankruptcy of 2010. A situation in which end-use securities were definitively written in August 2018 and today we now have the opportunity to reflect on the economic, political and social crisis of the previous years. We have the opportunity to think about what it was that went wrong and led to the depreciation of the political and political system in large parts of the citizens. What it was that went wrong with the political system, with parliamentarianism. What has led to the devaluation of the institutions for the protection of civil and social rights. But we have the possibility today, as sufficient time has passed since that dramatic experience, to listen and analyse, if you like, the echo of the popular mobilisations of that period which, beyond the obvious demand against austerity, of this unprecedented fiscal adjustment, also had a demand for more democracy and greater involvement of the citizens in decision-making processes. We now also have the opportunity to think on the basis of these demands that have emerged from the crisis - the institutional crisis and the crisis of representation of the political system - and to have the best possible analyses on which to base our proposals and the reforms that we want, in order to shield parliamentaryism, in order to strengthen popular intervention and popular participation, in order to guarantee the stricter and more effective protection of social rights. But, of course, we have the opportunity to propose, to cure flaws, malfunctions through reforms which either solve historical loose ends, such as the question of rationalisation of relations between the Church and the State, or cure institutional miscarriages, such as the Law on the protection of the Ministers. I think, of course, that the debate on the individual proposals has been exhausted. The positions and views of all political forces have been recorded. Different legal and political approaches have been analysed. I would therefore like to insist on the general philosophy of our proposal for the revision of the Constitution, which, as I said before, has developed into the territory of the questions raised by the crisis. Not only the economic and institutional crisis in the country, but I would also say the new data created by the new global institutional architecture that has been created in recent years through the transformation of this web of economic relations, which many call 'economic globalisation'. An architecture that creates conditions to strengthen the will of many times international and extra-institutional centres against the expressed democratic will of the people. Because in the new phase in which we have entered, the global economy, but also the institutional structure of the European Union and the euro area in which we are involved, the will of the peoples, to say it in general and not only in our country, is becoming increasingly difficult to influence the policies pursued. We are at a time when parliamentaryism, but also the democratic principle in general, are under constant pressure from multiple centres, from the money markets, from the central banks' mandates and interventions, from dozens of independent authorities, from international organisations and bodies that usually ignore, in the case of Greece in previous years, the popular verdict to impose politically prepared laboratory conditions. And it is precisely for this reason that Parliament today more than ever needs to be strengthened in parallel with the strengthening of the democratically elected government, so that both of these institutions can respond effectively to pressures that sometimes reach the limits of raw blackmail. So it is in this context that the arrangements that want to guarantee a smooth political cycle, a four-year political cycle and, on the other hand, to balance this new treaty not through institutional counterweights, as liberal thinking probably wants, but through an internal mechanism in parliament, which is not otherwise than the proportional electoral system, what you have called a disastrous proposal. And, of course, our proposal does not speak of a particular electoral system, it speaks of a model with the possibility of a deviation from the simple analogue model, but of a model of representativeness of the vote. But this proposal must not be seen out of hand, but as a backbone of proposals which create one - I repeat - an internal mechanism for parliamentary activity. What is this grid of suggestions? It is the proposal to disconnect the election of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the House. It is the proposal for a constructive vote of distrust, that is to say, anyone who tables a motion of censure to be able to bring the government down if they can achieve the majority in a new prime minister, as is the case today in other countries of the European Union, such as Spain and Germany. It is a duty for the Prime Minister to be a compelling member of Parliament, and finally, to guarantee - I repeat - the analogue electoral system, all of this works as a whole, as interrelated clauses that operate in the same direction. What's that direction? It is the strengthening of the principle of popular sovereignty and the protection of democratic institutions against external interference. The result of such a constitutional reform, such as that we are proposing, is clear to everyone, a strong government, a guaranteed four-year political cycle, but at the same time a Parliament that is not decorative, but could have a decisive influence on government policy through the establishment and the proportional electoral system, that is to say, a system of institutions that operates as a mechanism for balancing and controlling possible government arbitrariness. I now come to one of the key topics of discussion during the dialogue, and public dialogue and dialogue in committee and in plenary session, on how the President of the Republic is elected. Allow me here to comment specifically on this matter. The central question of the debate was whether we should finally have to resort to the people's verdict, or whether the President of the Republic should be elected by Parliament even by a simple majority of fifty-five Members, such as the proposal put forward by the New Democracy. The truth is that today's constitution provides for the last possibility of adding no insignificant detail, that a simple majority of fifty-one Members are only enough if three successive votes have not taken place which require an increased majority of two hundred, two hundred and eighty votes. Then the House has been dissolved, we have appealed to elections and the new Parliament has been elected. It therefore only provides for an increase in the majority in the first vote of more than eighty votes, and if that figure is not there, then we shall go to the simple majority. So the dissolution of the House and mediation of elections is not a random detail in the current Constitution, it is the way the constitutional legislature chooses - let me express it is a little inappropriate - in order to blackmail the consent of the political forces for the person of the President of the Republic, precisely because the President of the Republic is the head of the Hellenic Republic, is the regulator of the constitution, it is the person on which the unity of the nation must be expressed. So we here - and this is a coincidence in the debate that has taken place - want - and rightly so - to address the problem that arises with regard to the disruption of the normal governmental cycle of the four-year period, so we prefer to disconnect the election of the President of the Republic from a possible dissolution of the House. With what should we replace this, so that we do not fall back on the offense, let me say so, that we want to resolve a pathetic nature and create more, that is to say, to reduce the role of the President of the Republic itself? We must create another mechanism - let me once again express - the blackmailing of consensus, and this is what our proposal is trying to do with successive votes and only if they do not thrive in a six-month period, to lead us to direct election by the people as a last resort - I repeat - if consensus is not achieved. There are many who reasonably say that this can cause to the extent that a alteration of the culture itself occurs, to have a presidential suppression of our political system, because...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u71	Depression.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u72	Depression, whatever you want. Correct me to them, Mr. Tasoula. I am particularly pleased that you have to correct me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u73	Always at your disposal!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much! So there are many - to repeat my argument, not to get out of this, because it is a serious argument and listen to it - who say that this is a defensive of our political system in the presidential or semi-presidential form. I think this claim is completely unfounded and why do I think it is? For a political system, a state of affairs can be described as a presidential or semi-chairman not on the basis of the way in which it is elected, but on the basis of the powers of the President of the Republic, and our proposal for the constitutional review does not provide for any change in competences. I now come to the proposal put forward by the New Democracy. The New Democracy is tabling the proposal to elect a President of the Republic without mediating elections, directly with fifty-five Members. It is a proposal, in my view, that distorts the mechanism of reaching consensus that the Constitution should demand in so far as the President of the Republic - I repeat - want to express the unity of the nation and the regulator of the constitution. And we will end up at the end - because look here, when we talk about the Constitution, we must have in mind no muscle wishes or the present political time, but we must have in mind that here we come to regulate the rules of the political system that may last for decades - this version of having a President of the Republic appointed as the President-in-Office of the Parliament, the one that happens to exist during the period when the previous President's term of office ends and the election process will come to an end. Let me remark, expression, this is an institutionally problematic proposal, it is a proposal that alters and degrades the authority and role of the institution of the President of the Republic, which should not be a localist of a simple majority or a government majority. Of course, I have also heard the comment, the arguments of the New Democracy in relation to the vote on Article 30. I think there is still time not to fall into this trap. Article 30, of course, what does it say? It says that the President of the Republic is elected by the parliament and because this article is not revised, says the New Democracy that this means that we must consider it to be a fait accompli for avoiding recourse to the people. The counter-project here is that the general rule laid down in Article 30 is not violated. The election body is still the House, while recourse to the popular verdict, I repeat, acts as a last resort, that is, an exception to the general rule. In any case, however, the proposal to elect the President of the Republic by a simple majority, without the mediation of an election procedure, is detrimental. But now I would like to go a little further into the substance of my assessment, Mr Mitsotakis, ladies and gentlemen, because the New Democracy is tabling its proposal at the end of the debate. I would remind you that when the Review was first discussed here in the House, he did not have an opinion on this matter and said "we will look for it and find it in the future" and we did plagiarism at that time. So the reason - and I am going to say it openly - for these interpretations, false interpretations, in my opinion, legal and constitutional, is not stress for the maintenance of the constitutional legal system, but it is more stressful and I think that intentions and positions are absolutely selfish and opportune. I think that this position comes from a craving, if any it wins, to be able to elect a President of the Republic with fifty-five Members. You won't win them. Take note, however, when we discuss constitutional reform, we must discuss institutional responsibility, and I think that if that is the reason why you lead to this position and attitude, it is about depositing political opportunism and depositing the work - what we are accused of - of the constitutional reform process. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] This, however, is indicative of how you think of Officer Response and, if you like, of the different approach we have. And I am not talking about different opinions and ideas - it is legitimate - but about the different approach we have toward the institutions. We had the opportunity in February 2015 to propose a party member of the SYRIZA for President of the Republic, and even, in the second election, if he did not get a hundred and eighty, only to take him out with our own votes. We had a hundred forty-nine MPs back then. We did not. We have chosen that the President of the Republic should be elected by more than two hundred votes, as has been done. You, even on this subject, are thinking in terms of political vengeance, and you do not hide it. You know what? This is another reason, among other things, why the Greek people will vote against you in the next poll, the national poll... [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] ...and it will be a ballot that will judge the outcome of the constitutional reform process, which we are today closing its first cycle. That is, not to give you, among other things, the possibility of cancelling a leading, progressive institutional division that we are trying to do and not to lead to this unprecedented institutional change and deterioration of the prestige and role of the President of the Republic. But be careful, since we are talking about work, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u75	That's why you tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u76	I'll say about that. Mr. Tasoula, we said to correct me when you think I'm making a verbal mistake, not correct me to my political account. I'll call you for a transmitter under the Step. But beware of something, because I think this is very critical and important. The New Democracy has taken care, just before or during the previous debate in plenary and the first vote on the Constitutional Review, to spread the false news - we are used to make news, it is not the first time - that it is my first time that SYRIZA intends to draw a large portion of its Members, so that they do not vote for Rule 32, because SYRIZA takes the view that it will not have a majority in the next House and because SYRIZA is supposed to create conditions of right-wing parentheses, what Mr Samaras has said, but the misinterpreting has left him a bit over in five years. So, at the same time, which spread these false news - because, obviously, we with the institutions are not playing - at the same time under secret and guarded procedures as they had made sure that they passed on to the Greek people and the Greek Parliament that they vote on Article 86, namely the revision of the shameful law on responsibility of Ministers, but in secret, they took care of the introduction of the interpretative declaration in Article 86 not to vote on it, to withdraw their Members. And what does the introduction of the interpretative statement in Article 86 say? He took a hundred and seventy-nine votes. Again, a hundred and seventy-nine, not random.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u77	We voted for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u78	Listen. What does that mean? This means that if it is an interpretative statement, you know very well that it has retroactive effect. What does the interpretative declaration of Article 86 say? It says that the scope of the article, i.e. the amortisation period, refers exclusively to the offences committed in the course of the exercise and not to the occasion of the ministerial service. What's the difference? The difference is, to say it quite simply, that since he had received a hundred and eighty in the previous vote and received, today, a hundred and eighty - he wants to both - a simple majority in the coming House to introduce this interpretative statement, having, I repeat, retroactive force and, therefore, bribery, which is not an offence carried out during the exercise, would not fall within this misguided ambiguity period, i.e. it is not considered to be illegal, as soon as it has been a short time and there are two back-up elections. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Why, then, did New Democracy do this? One question, ladies and gentlemen, which needs to be answered. I do not know if your Vice-President, Mr Georgiadis, led you to this position and position, who has been on television windows for days, right and left and does not say 'I am innocent of what I am being accused of' - probably innocent of - but he says that 'even if I have persecution, he has been banned'. And now you come to the core, the heart of the change that we want to make in Article 86, the 'Greaty of Ministers' law - and the heart is not about from now on, it is about what has been done so far, and it is this interpretative statement that makes it clear that the offences of corruption will not be brought into this bribery - artificially and in a secret way not to vote in order to get a hundred and seventy-seven votes. We, ladies and gentlemen, say so clearly. We call it pure and simple. We are not dealing with constitutional reform based on micro-political purposes, and we are probably not dealing with constitutional reform on the basis of open issues that may have our officials with justice, because they do not have open issues with justice. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You, unfortunately, are facing a major institutional division for the future of the country with political purposes and with opportunism. At the same time that you accused us of withdrawing from Rule 32, you secretly withdrew your Members from Rule 86, the interpretative statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u79	But the vote is clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u80	You'll give the answers later. The answers are not to me. It's across the Greek people. That's where you owe answers. And across the world that supports you, you owe answers, because I think the questions raised are very critical. Ladies and gentlemen, our proposal for the new architecture of the civil society, I think, is being shaped and encrypted by the other proposals that we have tabled: the safeguarding of the popular referendum, the popular legislative initiative, but also the mandatory referendum in the event of an international convention which confers the country's sovereign competences on an international organisation. We are strengthening popular participation and thus satisfying a constant folk demand that has come to the surface, especially during the memorial period. We know that the New Democracy will not agree. It is not consistent with the people's aristocratic concept of politics that the New Democracy has. However, we are sure that the next House will give its approval to this necessary constitutional intervention. By abolishing the rule on the responsibility of the ministers - I have put it - we are having difficulty, in fact, because, despite the fact that we will win the next elections, it is questionable whether we will have a hundred and eighty Members. I believe, however, that, with the support of other wings in this House, we will be able to achieve that by at least eighty and eighty. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] By establishing the mandates of parliamentarians, limiting their immunity exclusively to offences relating to their duties, we are trying to create the conditions for restoring confidence in the political system, that is to say to fight at the core phenomena such as the client state and the family rule and to form the ground for the regeneration of real policy. Finally, with our proposal to guarantee the religious neutrality of the state and the mandatoryity of the political oath, we take a mature and necessary step towards rationalising the relations between the State and the Church, a step in which the enlightened forces of the Church do not oppose. Instead, they recognize it as necessary to make it clear what belongs to God and conscience and what the public sphere and the functioning of the state are.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u81	Are you going to vote on Article 32?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u82	What are you talking about, Mr. Brutsi? Please. What exactly are you asking? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u83	Mr. Brutsis is in another room or a TV panel, probably. He doesn't understand what I said before. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I said that while we are voting on Article 32 and we are not playing games with the Constitution, you have made sure that they get a hundred and seventy-nine votes only the provision relating to Article 86, the critical, which could have retroactive effect. You didn't hear that. Can I repeat it? How many times do I have to say it? We don't play games with the Constitution. You play micro-political games and you work for a top institutional process. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] For Rule 3, however, which is a fundamental and necessary step towards institutional modernisation, I do not come against Members and Members who consider this to be a crucial issue of conscience. But I come to say this: do you, Mr Mitsotakis, consider yourself liberal and have this view and position? This necessary step of institutional modernization - I would say fundamentally - an intervention that completes the extent and strength of individual rights, of freedom of religious conscience, of religious faith and of religious worship, that is, self-evidently, for a state of secularism and for a Constitution liberal, such as ours and influenced by the conflicts of Enlightenment, you as a liberal, come to vote against it and make us sermons? This attitude, in Article 3 in particular, of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis - because, all right, since you have made a pun for the Progressive Alliance, I must say to you that you too now have many parties within your party, you have the Spring Policy, you have the People's Orthodox Alert and I do not know how you can manage all this - this position and attitude is the liberation of neoliberalism, the liberation of an extreme neoliberal attitude and position that you represent. That is, extremely liberal in economic matters, but deeply conservative in matters of civil and social rights. This is your position and attitude. This is the New Democracy of which you are leading. I shall therefore close my speech by saying that the points on which the political separatist lines, the competitive social and economic plans between SYRIZA and New Democracy are made quite clear, are those relating to social rights, the protection of common goods, public control of common goods. Our proposal is conceivable in this respect, because it comes to reverse an international tendency to relax social protection, which is not symbolic at all, but on the contrary has direct and significant regulatory consequences. So I would say that in the light of our different position and attitude, it is reasonable for the New Democracy to try to degrade or openly oppose this great project. It makes sense to oppose the constitutional safeguarding of free and universal access to health services and uninsured citizens as well, because a health is envisioned as an area of profitability of large private groups. It makes sense to oppose strengthening the constitutional protection of collective bargaining, because it wants to reinitiate the process of deregulation of the labour market and reintroduce the treaty of labour jungle. It makes sense that it does not want public control of electricity and water infrastructures, because it seeks to be granted to large private interests, ignoring international experience of operations throughout the world, privatisations in water networks in particular, which have led to the depreciation of the networks, but also to the modern tendency to return the networks to public control even in pioneer countries, to neoliberal reforms. So it is a given fact that the debate on the constitutional review, although it sometimes becomes extremely technical, also leads us to the abstraction of important ideological and political conflicts. We seek this debate not to remain within the framework of a technical exchange of views, but we seek to confront the people, so that all Greek citizens understand that here we do not just have the conflict of two political forces, but also the conflict of two different ideologies, two different worlds, if you like, of two present trends within the Greek society. On the one hand, it is the tendency to strengthen authoritarianism, to depreciate public goods, to subject policy to technocrats, to confer the management of societies on the legitimate owners of power, that is to say, the trend that the New Democracy of Mitsotakis is today politically expressed. On the other hand, we have the social tendency, which seeks to strengthen democracy, strengthen popular intervention, strengthen and protect social goods and social rights, restore the relationship of confidence in parliament and directly involve the people in decision-making. Two different worlds, two different political plans. This, if you want - and I close - will also be the great dilemma of the election campaign, of the election campaigns coming in the next period. On May 26, the critical elections for the future of Europe, but also in the autumn, the critical elections for the future of Greece. The Greek people will take their place, as they have multiplely placed themselves in the dilemmas that have been put to them since 2012: in 2012, when they overturned the bilateral treaty in our country that has existed for so many years, in 2014 and 2015 in three responses of national character, European elections and national elections and in the summer referendum. It will therefore take a stand on these crucial issues in the coming months and will not allow for the re-establishment of what we call the 'old political establishment'. You know, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people came to the point of order, with the position and attitude they took in the mobilisations against austerity policies, but also for more democracy, and with their vote in the 2015 elections. The Greek people did not come to the forefront, Mr Mitsotakis, to leave again in four years. The Greek people and SYRIZA are here to stay and stay. We shall remain, in order to implement the major areas needed by the place, not only to rebuild the economy and society, but also to move on to the major institutional reform areas. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The Constitutional Review is such a large section, and the Greek citizens will know in the autumn that they are also voting for it, and that is why they are voting to bring this great institutional section to an end, which you are trying to cancel, but you will not succeed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u84	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, fifty two students and students and four educational attendants from the 3rd Eleftherios - Cordeliou Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Fotini Gennamata, President of the Group of the European Democratic Alliance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have said many times that in normal circumstances the debate on the revision of the Constitution should be a top institutional process. Unfortunately, however, in today's Greece, even the institutional seriousness of such a process remains a question, especially in this House with a slim and artificial majority. Once again, the Prime Minister chose to leave, since he told us what he had to say. He is not interested in staying in the Chamber, listening to all the other parties in opposition. It's not the first time, we're used to it. He can't stand dialogue, especially in here, when we're all together. He usually speaks to me when I'm not here. So I keep going. Unfortunately, already since the first debate on the Revision of the Constitution until today, we have watched a secret, between the government and the Civic Opposition. Micro-party games behind constitutional provisions. This is the true story of this painful review, directed and executed by SYRIZA and New Democracy. With this, unfortunately, cheap logic is approached by the protagonists of false bipartisanism, this historic review project and so on, things lead to an artificial polarization and a division. As in everything right here, we are talking in a cold atmosphere, without the prestige and glamorousness of constitutional reform. And the whole debate is obvious that it is done with germs, false dilemmas and ideological stunts. But Mr. Tsipras doesn't have to keep up with Mr. Mitsotakis and seek to find false dilemmas. They look so much like it. It looks so much like the old Right of New Democracy with the new right of Mr. Tsipras and SYRIZA. Rhetorics only have rivalry and agree so much and meet in conservative policies. They could work together on the next day of the elections, but this is certainly not a solution for the place. Mr. Tsipras is leaving, and that's obvious. No, no more right now, the steering wheel for the country. Immediately progressive solutions are needed, so that Greece can finally leave the crisis and the memos behind. Apart from conservative, unfortunately, it is incredibly cynical. We lived this with the fire in Matty, when the same night they set up a theater with the presence of the Prime Minister, where they did not know that there were so many dead. And now they continue to cause, with incredible cynicism, MPs and candidates of the SYRIZA. They challenge society itself with their own statements. All I have to say is that they will have to respect their victims and families at last, both the victims of terrorism and the dead of the murderous attacks on molotovs. Enough with cynicism, enough with challenges. We condemn terrorism and violence, with all its manifestations. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the review experience “La SYRIZA”, with this famous public consultation that took place on the Constitution and the obvious and unprecedentedly very brief functioning of the committee, the conclusions are now clear. SYRIZA did not dare to discuss in a long time his own proposals for constitutional revision. He uses every subject and the Constitution, to cultivate civil war situations, to obtain micro-party benefits, through fake dividing lines. This game of artificial polarization and division, of course, plays its part and the New Democracy responds to that logic, which I would remind you once again that in spring it openly undermined our initiatives for a substantial and consensual review. In contrast to their own unscrupulous logic, our party insists that the prestige and importance of it be attributed to the process. Ladies and gentlemen, we agreed to revise the Constitution to the points and the extent that it needs, focusing first and foremost on the Greek citizen himself, but also on regaining the credibility of the citizen, politics and politicians. It's the crucial question of this Review. It is the deepening and, finally, the consolidation of democracy itself. When I sent all the political leaders a letter with our own proposals to have a consensual review and to have a lot of time to hold the dialogue, so that we could reach agreements, government and Civic Disputefulness have stood up to us. You see, then they knew there would be time for them to be placed seriously and responsibly. We have made concrete proposals to upgrade the credibility of our political system and strengthen the rule of law. And we stood against the sterile laudability of reforms as well as the phenomenon of constitutional populism. SYRIZA and the New Democracy blurred the strong political message that this revision ought to have. They refused to shape the necessary conditions of consensus and thus undermined the Constitution itself in the end to another subject of political competition and party objectives. An important opportunity was again lost on the altar of political survival, just as it had been before in 2008. SYRIZA is trying, despised at its ends, to invest on the only thing he has left, polarization and division. Both the government majority and the New Democracy - the two sides of the Fake Communism - proved too few to go ahead with the necessary reforms in education, energy, self-government, justice and the independent authorities. Unfortunately, the blindfolds dominated it. We refuse to become part of an anti-institutional and anti-parliamentary setting. Even in these circumstances, we do not have passive viewers. We shall not, therefore, allow the revision of a game for a few or in this House, which has lost a significant degree of legitimacy on the road to elections, nor will it be possible for the next one. We shall not allow by our vote the constitutional revision to become the case of a single political force. There can be no order in white for the Revision of the Constitution. And we will do everything possible and what is relevant to our real political power, so that we do not let the ambitions of power cut off and sew the revision into their measures. No provision to be revised with a hundred and eighty votes! I say it again, I repeat, we say it all day, and we said it in the first debate on the Review. It is very important for the next steps and the proper completion of the review process by the next Parliament. Especially on the issue of the President of the Republic, we have in time pointed out the need to disconnect his election from the term of office of the Parliament and the proclamation of early elections. And obviously, we have always disagreed with the logic of the work of the President of the Republic, his incredible involvement in developments and with getting the President of the Republic to campaign in the balconies. We consider it incomprehensible and really changes the culture itself. So we didn't play games with this top issue, like SYRIZA and New Democracy. And we have clearly raised the issue of the President of the Republic. We believe that the next President of the Republic should come from the progressive party. We are in a very critical, historic situation - I would say - and we need a person who can unite the Greek people. The Change Movement and always the great democratic party are the timeless institutional guarantor of democracy, the rule of law, individual rights and freedoms. Today, as always, we will guarantee the smooth functioning of our democracy. We will support the structure of parliamentaryism, the functioning of our state institutions. The Constitution is the foundation of the constitution, the country's charter, and that is why responsibility is required. We are therefore standing in the face of constitutional populism, in the face of sloppy solutions, in toxic recipes, in outstripping activism, in any extra-institutional intervention that throws water into the mill of extreme anti-democratic elements. With our contribution, our guarantee is to halt the deterioration of the prestige of institutions, to strengthen the rule of law, to demand the reconstruction of the social state, to strengthen political stability and to preserve human rights. We are planning a strong Greece of knowledge and research, a new state of decentralized, modern, extroverted, against those who drugize the course towards tomorrow. We will therefore insist on the path of progress and change, on the road of a powerful Central Left Movement of Change, which supports the Greek state towards those who question it and beat it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Gennamas. Mr Michaelakos, President of the People's League - Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of today's sitting is to revise the Constitution, in accordance with the proposals made by SYRIZA and the New Democracy. I would like to ask, however, how you respect the Constitution, as it has so far been, when you have ruled out the Golden Dawn from all the media, from all procedures. What makes you legitimate to exclude Golden Dawn? In fact, we also have the comic-tragic phenomenon of asking questions by the Members of the Golden Dawn and answering not a few SYRIZA ministers in the following way: "We will inform you that, in view of the pending trial for the establishment of a criminal organisation, in which the participation of Members of the Golden Dawn is investigated, we will abstain from responding to us by the above or other Members of the Golden Dawn for constitutional and parliamentary reasons". I told you at the previous meeting that in the Constitution, which says that there is no answer. You're breaking the Constitution, and it's really for laughing and crying. All SYRIZA ministers support it, but above all the Minister of Justice, Mr. Kaloger, who recently submitted a bill a few days ago, according to which every defendant has the presumption of innocence and goes to the civil courts any person who disputes this presumption. And Mr Kaloger himself, who tabled the bill on the presumption of innocence, gives us this answer. This is really a matter of political schizophrenia, but it is not only about SYRIZA and the Ministers, but about all the parties in this House who accept this tactic at the expense of the Golden Dawn. But I forgot, you're the democratic arch and within the democratic arch of course is the JRC. Except that the Golden Dawn has lodged a statement to the Arable Ice that it is not intended to violently overthrow the civil society, and instead the JRC in its own statute speaks of a dictatorship of the proletariat and says that in the event of war it will turn against the bourgeois order! This is the democratic arch with the JRC! And against this bow of political parties, which the entire Greek people deceive at every end of Greece, there is a force that resists, the Greece that insists, the Golden Dawn. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] I will repeat once again that you recognise the right to self-determination at the expense of our national interests to some Muslims who say Turks. You recognize the right to self-determination even to a woman who wants to declare a neutral sex or a man who wants to declare a woman or a woman who wants to declare a man. You all recognize it, except for us. So in stubbornness of your propaganda and your mud we are neither Nazi nor fascists. We are Greek nationalists and we insist on this! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] As I said at a previous meeting, citing what he writes in his book "The History of Fascism", Philistor publications, Stanley Pail, but also in what George Orwell himself, the famous 1984 writer, and Big Brother's inspiration, the term "fascist" today means someone who exercises authorial authority. Definitely authoritarian authority doesn't exercise the Golden Dawn. You are the ones who face the anger of the Greek people for the betrayal of the Prespecies Agreement, even with preventive actions which the Minister, Mrs Gerovas, and her Deputy Minister, Mrs Papakostas, justified. So you are the fascists who practice an authoritarian policy in this country against the will of the people, being a sad majority! I'm coming to the Revision of the Constitution. I will repeat what I said at a previous meeting. If we had fifty Members - which we do not have - we would table our own proposal, which we would refer to in Article 4, which says that all Greeks are equal to the law, which is being violated against the gold dawn. In addition, Article 4 says that all those who are capable of carrying weapons must serve in the Armed Forces. This Constitution and the article of the Constitution which is insurmountable, you have circumvented it, the gentlemen of the parliamentary majority at that time in a government of Simitis, with the 2001 review, and made an interpretative provision that the alternative term cannot be legally provided for. Of course, this does not like too many in this Chamber who did not have the honour to wear the honored hack of the Greek soldier, to fugitives, deserters and negligent soldiers you have and advisers and pay them by the Greek people. If Golden Dawn once rules and there is a national state, then all the Greeks will go to the Army, without exception! I am also going to refer to the New Democracy and its own proposal. I would remind you that Mr Mitsotakis has set certain conditions for SYRIZA's revised articles to be accepted in order for SYRIZA to accept the proposals of the New Democracy as well. Word did not mention Article 3. It passed Article 3, which leaves thousands of Greek families, the families of the staff of the sacred clergy of the Church of Greece in an uncertainty. Furthermore, SYRIZA's proposal and Article 3 self-evidently states: "We propose the recasting and modernisation of Article 3 in order to expressly guarantee the religious neutrality of the state by maintaining, for historical reasons, the recognition of Orthodox religion as a prevailing religion". And it complements and says: "The declaration that the Greek state is religiously neutral and that there is no predominant religion is involved with our proposal. It is not the term ‘predominant religion’ means a recognition of official state religion. New French Revolution, then, with Robespierre Tsipras and Saint Zist, Tsakalotus, out of nowhere. Golden Dawn considers the review of this article to be a real bomb on the foundations of the Greek state, as established by the First National Assembly of the Greeks in Epidaurus. I read the following sentence to you from the Declaration of Epidaurus, from the chapter "The Temporary Citizenship of Greece": "In the name of the Holy and Indivisible Trinity the Greek Nation today declares its political existence and independence to a national convention before God and humanity." In the name of Agia Trinity, the Greek state was founded and you cannot dissolve it by any revision and no majority, much less by the majority of Ms. Megalo-Economics, Ms. Papakostas and the others you have taken, by stealing MPs from the other parties. You don't have a parliamentary majority! And if there was a sign of political honor to the government, he would have to resign and direct elections! We also have Article 27 which allows for a change in the borders of the country by an absolute majority in the number of Members. Inadmissible! And I come to Article 28, the famous Article 28, which provides for national sovereignty, which has happened with the memoranda. It is noted that this article also became the subject of the 2001 revision of the PASOK and was added. We do not believe in a state where national independence can be granted. This state for us is not free, it is protectorate. With regard to the article on the revision of Rule 62 and Article 86 of the Parliamentary immunity and the immunity of the Ministerial Responsibility Act, we would like to say that we are voting against your proposal for the simple reason that neither Parliamentary immunity nor the Council's Responsibility Act is effectively abolished. You are making fun of the people and saying that you will consider whether they are politically offended offences by MPs or ministers, without determining what offences these are. I would remind you that this House has been given parliamentary immunity for uncovered checks, for slandering, for violence even for traffic. You remember a congressman who had killed, driving drunk, a girl. You have also given him parliamentary immunity. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] On the contrary, for the Golden Dawn you have exhausted every limit of rigour and you have sent more Members of the Golden Dawn to the courts than those in total have been referred by the House for for forty-four years. And it makes sense, because forty-four years you have been on your own, you have been the party of the political parties. Now, among you, it's the Golden Dawn that comes even stronger and you can't shake it with anything. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] I can only refer to the Prespecies Agreement and denounce the New Democracy which, by means of statements by both its President and most of its officials, says that if it becomes a government, it will respect the Ambassadors' agreement. And I say to the Greek people that by voting on New Democracy, you recognize the state of "North Macedonia", for which only one party resists and says that it will never recognize it: the Golden Dawn of the Greeks. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Indeed, on the occasion of the SYRIZA Eurovoc, where the left-wing world really has no limit, you have found any of the last name and gene of the European Parliamentary Party, to make him a candidate, I have to tell you not to cultivate a civil war, because all this is over in Grammos and you are not in your position. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] But the New Democracy has a great responsibility for the full sovereignty of the Left. There are no communist parties throughout Europe. In Italy, France, they're finished. Not only is there the official Communist Party, but there is another second communist party, SYRIZA, which governs and the Left is completely dominated by ideological and political life. I am going to read you on this in order to understand the responsibilities of the Liberal Party for the sovereignty of the Left, an extract from a confidential document given by Constantine Chatsos to Constantine Karamanlis and there is in the archives of Karamanlis, dated December 1975. So he writes Constantine Tsatsos: "Left professors with their masonry solidarity and combatism manage to pay all their vacant seats with similar ones. So now the Philosophy School of Athens, sometimes a bulwark of reactionary tendencies, is rapidly transformed into a school where the leftists will prevail, as is the case with the Philosophy and the Legal School of Thessaloniki, which have already become components of the Lambraki Group. Thus, the principal professors, and when they elect new fellow Members or assistants, and when they teach, act uncontrollablely politically and become signifiers of the left-wing students.' It is claimed that this leftism in universities is a booro that will pass, as it has been in many other countries. I don't agree, and Constantine Chatsos was right. This is how the Left dominated, with the blessings of the New Democracy and, finally, there is a party of nationalist, which can, darefully, say that it does not respect or appreciate the struggles of the Left because they were nationally reciprocated struggles that talked about independent Macedonia and Thrace. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] You often accuse us strongly of SYRIZA’s partners that we are working with the New Democracy and the New Democracy that we are working with SYRIZA. Partners in the destruction of Greece New Democracy and SYRIZA I would remind you that they have voted hand in the third memorandum, the Islamic mosque, the cohabitation pact and have, of course, committed themselves to respecting the Ambassadors' Agreement. I now come to the major political theme of our day, the change of the Criminal Code, which is supposed to favour the Golden Dawn and which SYRIZA has done to favour the Golden Dawn. The New Democracy, the youth of SYRIZA, the JRC and react to the changes in Article 187. Once again we have the known controversy: Who strengthens the Golden Dawn? SYRIZA or New Democracy? Take the news. None of them. The Greek people are strengthening it, because we at the syllables of the hundreds of thousands of Greeks who held blue-white go there and greeted us. You were hiding, and where you appear, they plunge you, and you see conspiracy. Did it, in addition to Article 187, which, in your opinion, reduces the penalty, does not change an article in this Criminal Code? We have molotov bombs. In Article 272 of the new Criminal Code, attributes are quoted: ‘Any person who manufactures, supplys, or owns explosives or bombs from which a risk can be caused to a person shall be punished by a three-year imprisonment’. By a felony, punished for twenty years, you're making it a felony. We also had the most enthusiastic and provocative statement of your Member Kyritsis, who said that no one died of molotov. He forgot Marfin and red crimes for so many decades. So no one protested about it. No reaction from the Left for this thing. However, we also have other changes that you have not complained about, such as the abolition after seventy years of the law on public abuses. He wrote an article about it today in the newspaper "Kathimerini" by Mr. Sanidas, an honorary prosecutor of the Ice Arrow, entitled "Is the law on abuses of the public?" with the title: "The maintenance in force of Law 1608/1950 is absolutely necessary, since corruption in Greece continues to remain unrelenting". I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Mr Nikolaos Michaloliakos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] You're abolishing the law on public abuses. At the same time as the entire Greek people for scandals, at the same time as the Greek people say that politicians and those who rule are thieves, you are reducing the penalty. To whom is this arrangement, really? What about us? We didn't run public money, we didn't rule. Are they to those who ruled, that is, PASOK and New Democracy, and is it also a gift for yourself after your authority is over and you're judged? Also, you are abolishing the bribery of an official, Article 236, and taking the sentence to three years. Article 386 on fraud, Article 336 on rape, changes and restrictions on the concept of rape. For crooks, for those who are under a hundred and twenty thousand euros, there is, in fact, no problem. We also have the 370 A which concerns your Minister Polakis for recording private conversation, where by a felony you are making it a felony while the case is pending. There is also Article 105 for polyisoviites, which paves the way for the murderers to leave prison, but no one has dealt with it. I would really like to ask: How does Mr Kalogerou legislate? As Minister or as a communist with an empathy against Golden Dawn? For this article, in 187, even a member of the Legislative Committee, Mr Mandas, said that there should be no legalisation of a la carte, that is to say, to change the article because it is precisely about Golden Dawn. However, the fact that there are all these references to the parties shows that what is the substance of the case, namely that persecution against the Golden Dawn was and is a prosecuting policy. Instead of seeing all these changes, then, with the top of the law on abusive public opinion that reduces penalties, let us say a few words about Article 187. It is well known that the Palermo Convention has been ratified by this House, according to which there is no criminal organisation if there is no economic benefit. You should know that the Legislative Committee and in 2014, when the government was New Democracy, this also provided for this committee to be a flood, and Mr Kalogero was involved. He's lying that he hasn't changed the motions of the Legislative Committee. He changed them at the expense of the Golden Dawn. But we have nothing to fear. No change in the context of penalties is our concern. You have already condemned and looked at the measurement of penalties. You have so much respect, Bolsheviks, in justice! I hereby declare to you the Step forward that greater proof that it is not our concern that when you bring the Criminal Code, Golden Dawn undertakes to vote against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u88	It is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the room "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way the House organizes and operates, fifty students and students and three teachers from the High School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Leventis, President-in-Office of the Council, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating, second and finally, the question of the revision of the Constitution. However, this issue, which is the highest, has been sabotaged by both parties - both SYRIZA and New Democracy - and have made proposals outside one another, which have little common ground on the pretext of expressing support and progress. I have said that, in the opinion of the Central Association, both express maintenance and SYRIZA and New Democracy, because progress is not just to say that you are progressive. Progress is to prove it by your actions, by your works. The first conversation I had with Tsipra was about the simple analogue. The simple analogue in the Chamber only voted for it by the Central Association. The JRC is dragged. He didn't willingly come to vote. The Central Association voted for it because we believed in the simple analogue. However, I told Mr Tsipras that 'if you continue to vote for the bills with 151 and 152 you continue with the logic of enhanced'. The simple analogue is not just to pass it as a law. We must adopt it as a consensus, change the political map, start to hold consensus and convergence. Mr. Tsipras has been going through for four years now with 151 everything. What's different from Mr. Samaras or Mr. Mitsotakis? What's the difference? If he had even tried to legislate less, but to legislate consensually with an increased number of votes, he would have shown in Greece what is quite simply proportional. We would have the first results of mere analogy and would have been persuaded by the skepticists, because many fear that the mere analogy will be invincible. So we need a stage of consensus. Mr. Tsipras did not offer it. He ruled on the right hand, 'or you agree with what I say or cut your neck'. On the issue of the President of the Republic, the Centro Association has said that the President of the Republic should not be voted on by the people because according to the constitutions of the whole world, when we have two poles of power in one state, we are leading sooner or later into conflict. Don't you understand that? How did the old king lose his throne? He overthrowd George Papandreou, fired a Prime Minister with 54%. That's right. When the president is elected, he is no longer decorative, he has some authority. Maybe he won't sign something. Maybe some anomaly could create. There is wisdom in the constitutions that give only one pole of power in each state, because they know that in many cases there has been a pole conflict and therefore a diversion. That's the result, the diversion. Mr. Tsipras didn't understand that either. Well, Mr. Mitsotakis won't understand it, because his father was always in favour of the presidential election. Once I saw him here, in the Cup of Parliament, and I mentioned this issue of the pole conflict, he didn't seem to understand it. I'm afraid so. He went to some channel today, Mr. Meimarakis said the Center doesn't need to. Right and SYRIZA have absorbed it. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And he said that in the European elections there would be a conflict of two worlds: progress and maintenance and the last vote should not be lost. What system led to bankruptcy in Greece? The dual-party system. Didn't that lead to bankruptcy in Greece? Did a coalition government go bankrupt? So why are there people in this Chamber who continue and insist on a man's authority and the theft of MPs, to the beggaring of MPs? Because they cannot believe in the people's representations equally. They want 20% -25% to make government and then say 'The Greek people voted for us'. That's what's been happening over the last few years. If we look at the figures, the percentage abstaining from the votes, the percentage of participants and what percentage the first party gets and we do a reduction on the whole, it is a question of finding a government with more than 20% to 23% of the people. That's what's going on. It is a morbid situation, which the parties do not seem to want to change, because it suits them. In fact, Mr Tsipras is now saying to change the law on the European elections, so that Members can also stand for the European Parliament. You know, in Germany, the electoral law must be changed six years before the elections in which it is to be implemented. It changes here forty, fifty days ago. Whatever everyone likes. Go to Germany and say: Now we have European elections. We don't change, you guys, the law, why does it work? And everyone agrees, they won't go any further. Six years later, it will be implemented. But these are advanced mathematics for this Chamber! As the Central Association, we have called for the criminalisation of the roustetti. And why have we asked her? We've asked her for why the ASA came out of the carpet. What did S.H.I.E.L.D. do? The AAP has been done for many years, by Peponnes. From Peponnes, and then they didn't become any ruffles? Wasn't he defrauded? Therefore, we have proved that we are making laws and we are canceling them and undermining them. We've proved that. Only the criminalisation of the Russetti in the Constitution, that is to say the ban on mediation by a Member or a party on appointment and appointments to take place only with molecules, a blind system and on the basis of the needs of each family and every society, can we only get away with the scourge and say that we will not go bankrupt again. Now I see that Mr. Tsipras to improve his devastated image has begun his permanentizations, thirty thousand there, forty-five in the Drama Prison. All the time they come to my office and ask me for simulations of contractors: “We are few. We are a hundred and fifty." They still haven't hired the successors of the 1995 S.H.I.E.L.D. They hired 1997, 1998, in 1995, they left it outside. And I wonder, what was in 1995? Was it a leap and they appointed the next ones? That's a laughing matter. The criminalisation of the rosphet is a very basic thing and could exalt this Chamber. This Chamber, however, seems to be looking for no elevation, calling for degrading, for its credibility and dignity to be on board. We are calling for proportional representation in the media. In the media you've started a right-wing, a left-hand man at 95% of the panels. Did you ever care if the Centron Association showed up? I don't think you cared! You have an embargo on SKAY, you SYRIZA, because it involved you in a story in Matti, said some things you think are inaccurate. Here's something more substantial. It is the Republic itself, the representation of all views. You say that the small parties will be exterminated and the two big ones will survive. That's all you're trying to do. The people are not foolish, however, to do so, because they know that bankruptcy has been brought by bipartementism, PASOK - New Democracy. This way of governing the country has brought bankruptcy. The people are wise and you want their wisdom to trespass. That's what you want. Members of Parliament have started rewrites. It is good for this House to end too to stop this intimidating thing, to form government majorities with transcripts. I consider that a greater crime than the apostates who leave a party make those who accept them. It's a lot bigger morality than that. The Centro Association has taken PASOK, and the Kammenos who said "I did not hurt you, Mr. Leventis" - has taken Kammenos now MP - has taken Mr. Katsiantoni from Larissa and you have a lady. I repeat that the offence of the violation of the popular verdict committed by the apostate Member is far less than the offence of giving him a roof. And they say, well, if they came to you, wouldn't you take them? So that's moral? Whoever goes through the door opens the door to him? Is that moral? If you did this to Sakellaridis and Katrivanou, from 2016 Mr. Tsipras would have left. Is that the morals you teach of SYRIZA with moral advantages? And they say, "But I sat a little independent and then I went." This method has been applied to us in all cases. They sat for a while independent, for a few months, and then they went. That's what happened. So sitting a little independent isn't a violation of the people's mandate? What was that due? You have to hand over the seat. That's what's due. And that had to be done constitutionally. Unless they always want the parties that prevail from the rest. Unless it became a pendant in this Chamber, Tsipras and Mitsotakis said: “Ah, I made a hundred and thirty. I will dive and thirty forty here and there in various ways. Unless this is the way of thinking from now on. But this will be punished by the Greek people. The Greek people are punishing these things. They're immoral things. [[This is where the ending bell of the speaking time of the President of the Union of Centres is ringing.]] For the polls Mr Tsipras accuses him of'smoking' - and they may'shoot' him, I do not know, but I do not believe that he is being'shooted' in any case - we had requested an independent authority to monitor the findings. Before "KATHMERINI" takes the results of a survey, check the findings, either by telephone or by the independent authority. Three times I caught him in Nafplio from the collar and the third time I said to him: 'Would we do that?' And he answered: “We have a long time, we have a long time. We'll do it later." And now he's accusing them of being crooks and throwing him. But do you know what he's doing? It says it is better to continue this chaos so that tomorrow I can do the same again, because the New Democracy tells you very soon, with what it says about tax reductions, EUR 2 000 for each birth, tax exemptions, that it will be renegotiated - it says - in Europe to reduce the surplus. So the New Democracy is a magic party! It's a magic party, it's gonna do all this. Today's New Democracy looks very much like Mr. Tsipras of 2014, who too feared Europe, smashed memoirs, did the millions. You remember them. The New Democracy, then, believes that by giving 2,000 euros to each birth, it will catch every householder to bear children. And I ask: did you raise your children in this room with 2,000 euros? So the missing ones were 2,000 euros to have kids? Or does Mr. Mitsotakis really think he's solving the demographic program by providing 2,000 euros to every child born? In fact, Tsipras said: 'It is something'. In reply to Mitsotakis, Tsipras said that the two grand will make the other child a child, "We could say it's nothing, but it's something". That's good reason! It's adopted that two grand will give birth to children. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Are you complaining about anything? Oh, no. Don't talk? Talk all of you? I don't doubt that's your method. I don't doubt it at all. Let's listen to you so we can learn better about the tide you've been talking about in the channels all day, memorize the poem better. What have you done to the refugees? You agreed to return from Germany as refugees. That's what you accepted. The right policy in the Central Association was to force Germany to try at least - those countries that closed the borders to lose some of Europe's funding and this money to travel to the countries receiving refugees because they are on the coastline with Turkey. It's clear. You have not tried, but you are taking 'bonamadas', you are satisfied with every request from the foreigners and you are filled with refugees in Greece. And what are these people to blame? They're people. But how many can this country stand? Can he withstand the crowds that Erdogan has and with which he's threatening? Erdogan threatened: "I have three million and I can drown you." Erdogan said so. Was there any consideration taken of this, trying to do something about it? Nothing happened. I have asked, before a bond came out, for the Minister of Finance to approve the bond. This applies to large countries. Why is the Minister of Finance hiding? And the Simitis had made bonds, which, after searching for them, we found them. We found them then. Looking for the Ministry's puppies, we saw that we owe 3,000,000, the next 2,000,000. Why are they hiding? The bonds should not be kept alone by the Minister to create the bonds and all grades of government worthy, but the House should also approve them. As an amount added to the public debt, it should be the responsibility of the House to issue bonds. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the President of the Union of Centres is repeatedly ringing.]] So let the modern Mr. Mitsotakis say that the House will be informed, but not that, nothing. A male principle. So you go into the trap of Tsipras who wants to take you to "right parentheses". You took Tsipras to "left parentheses" and it seems to me that in the pit that you opened, you will fall on your own. He did it with religion to show that Mr. Tsipras is modern. He said to me at some point today: "The time has come to modernise, to show that we are a state of neutral religion, a state that accepts all religions." Why? Don't we accept all religions? I don't get it. Is there a persecution in Greece? This is where clubs and unions operate, which are said to undermine Greece. They're also free. I don't want to call them now because I don't want to. So, freedom is there, but what's the problem? Some people think they become modern and modern when they trample the official religion of Greece. That's disgrace. Others liberated us and others now are pooping. I hope it never needs to be played in this country again. But can I see those who go to make the state neutral, will they be in the struggles, or will religion and the mere prostitute be the fighter? Why here and the poor people who feed them, who feed them? The MPs? The state? Some metropolitans feed them with great difficulties.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u90	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u91	I can't hear you, sir. All I see is that you're blinking your mouth. I can't hear you. It's not easy where you're from and I'd like to hear from you. The extreme right develops all the time in Greece. Why, is it growing? Because the so-called 'constitutional arch' is tired of themselves and of them, with eternal MPs and this is happening in Germany and France. How much has McCron's popularity fallen? Below half of the votes received. Therefore, fatigue and lack of interest for the ordinary citizen, these produce some amphetamine layers of society in "Golden Ages" and extreme right. Don't complain tomorrow that the far right has taken 6% - 7% or I don't know what's going to get. Don't complain, you of the New Democracy. That's what Karamanlis the old man did, and he took it all. But with the rushphetti Karamanlis the old man had the power to put under his umbrella and the somewhat calmer and the far right. Now that this advantage has been lost for the New Democracy, difficulties will begin. You say with a veil, New Democracy, that you will win the elections and at great percentages, and I see a terrible arrogantness in your words. Be careful, because arrogance is so transparent that it will have the opposite effect. The world will be afraid of you. As the world has lost its trust in Tsipras, he will be afraid of you as coming to torture the world. Your past is very bad. [[This is where the ending bell of the speaking time of the President of the Union of Centres is ringing.]] Your past, gentlemen of the New Democracy, is very bad. You cut pensions half the world. Your past is very bad. You blame Tsipras, who cut himself, but you had to say an apology to a Greece that you cut off 50% of her pensions. Shouldn't you be saying an apology? On the subject of Macedonia...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u92	Ohh!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u93	Oh, of course, because you know what you did, what you dirt did. You know what you did.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u94	Say it, Mr. President, say it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u95	So on the issue of Macedonia, you have committed a crime.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u96	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u97	Mr President, I want to say what I have to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u98	Watch what I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u99	There's out on the canals fascism of the two parties. If there is any point in this Chamber itself, there is no point in taking part in the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, watch what I'm going to say. I have no reason to limit your speech, but there is a request from Members who leave with the...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u101	Can they talk too? They'll say the same again. Will they say anything else?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u102	They're fleeing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u103	Mr President, when the Members of the New Democracy talk, will they say something different from Mitsotakis or SYRIZA, will they say something different from Tsipras to give them the floor again?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u104	No, I'm sending you a request from the MPs that they want to leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u105	Two words for Macedonia. You're fighting to say this is over. But you know that when this Chamber was voting, 80% of the people were against the Treaty of Ambassadors. The strangers, Trump, the Merkel who pushed you, too, knew 80% of the people were against it. So both foreigners and Greeks knew the opposition of the Greek people. Do not think that this treaty will remain in force. Everything that runs counter to the will of the people is falling apart. Nor did New Democracy treat the Macedonian as well, no matter how much they come out and say, "We didn't vote." You put the complex name as your thinking, you posted it on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' website, and on it was Tsipras based on it to commit the crime he committed against Macedonia. And as regards PASOK, Venizelos went to the UN assembly and said that Greece has already made its withdrawal: Complex name. Why? You're only yelling for language and identity? Did you hear the rally talk about language? I did not hear anyone coming to me and saying to me: 'Mr Leventis, the language is the problem, the identity'. So this Chamber violated something very important, the will of the Greek people. And you will all pay for this, because in history this House will remain as the parliament that has reduced against Macedonia. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u106	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this point has been concluded and we are entering into a decision (second vote) on the proposals for revision of the Constitution in accordance with Rules 110 of the Constitution and 119 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. The object of today's second vote is the proposed provisions of the Constitution that gathered in the first vote, on February 14, 2019, a hundred and fifty one (151) votes and more. The provisions which in the first vote raised less than a hundred and fifty votes were not put to the vote today, as they were not adopted during the first vote. Before we proceed to the vote, I would like to take this into account and ask you to pay attention. You have already been distributed a list containing the provisions to be revised. The list you have in your hands has three distinctions with 'yes', 'no', 'no', 'no', in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House. In any event where there is no note of the vote of the Member next to a provision with a 'yes', 'no' or 'no', it will be considered not to have been voted on. As you know, the vote is roll-call, clearly and is held on all the revised provisions, as they are reflected in the ballot, at the same time with a note of the Members' vote separately on each provision, in accordance with Rule 119(6) of the Rules of Procedure, which recognises these three verdicts alone. When you read the list, which will be made by the Chair, note your preference in the voting list, your name, the constituency and the parliamentary group with which you are elected, sign it at the end and present it to the voters. For the provisions of which you accept the revision, note in box ‘yes’ and those that do not accept the revision, note ‘no’. ‘Value (+)’ means the ‘X’ or ‘Valid’ are acceptable voting symbols. Similarly, if you wish, note 'the present'. When you hear your name, one by one, you will come to the colleagues Mr Katsis from SYRIZA and Mr Konsolas from New Democracy, who will receive the ballots, sign up and number them. We would like to add that the voters will make a first check on the vote on whether there is an obvious misgivings about the necessary formalities, i.e. the name and signature. If the name and signature are omitted, the Member shall immediately be invited, completed and initialled. For this reason, please warmly - and I would ask you not to move away from the Chamber for at least thirty minutes from the time all the Members have voted. Mr Gara, Mr SYRIZA and Mr Besiropoulos, from New Democracy, are on the list. At the end of the vote, eight committees will be set up to count the ballot as follows. Each committee shall be three-member and shall be composed of the President and two members. These committees will share an equal number of ballots. Each committee will set up a counting protocol and at the end the outcome of each committee will be taken into account. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, until the vote is completed I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and being informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-six students and students and five educational sessions from the 6th Haidari Municipal School and from the 2nd Municipal School of Archangelos Rhodes. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Also, Mr Panagiotis Kammenos, President of ANELs, informs us that for health reasons it is not possible to attend today's sitting on discussion and decision on the proposals for revision of the Constitution in accordance with Rule 110(119) of the Rules of Procedure, as well as with the vote. I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, to which they give their vote. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u108	A letter from Mr Athanasios Kavvada has been sent to the Bureau, which gives its vote on the revised provisions. That vote shall not be counted against the final result.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u109	I would ask that we read the list again in terms of absentees.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u110	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned. I would ask that the eight Committees for the counting of votes be formed: Mr Petros Konstantinos and Mr Konstantinos Morfidis and Mr Constantine Vlassis are members of the first Committee of Directors. Mr Dimitrios Sevastakis and Ms Panagiota Brandza and Ms. Georgia Martinou are members of the second Committee of Presidents. The third Committee of Directors is Mr.Ioannis Theophiles and members Mr.Asteros Kastoris and Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides, who replaced George Stylos. The fourth steering committee is Evangelia Vagonakis, who replaced Socrates Vardakis and members Alexandros Meikopoulou and Mr Ioannis Antoniadis. Mr George Chogas and Mr Dimitrios Vettas and Mr Georgios Katsiannis are members of the fifth Committee of Directors. In the sixth Committee of Inquiry, Mr Ioannis Stefos and members of the Committee of Inquiry are Mr Panayota Dritsel and Mr Vassilis Yoyakas. The Seventh Committee of Presidents is Mr George Ursouzidis and Ms Elizabeth Skoufa and Mr Christos Bukouros. The eighth Committee of Presidents is Mr Dimitrios Gassis and members Mr George Pallis and Mr Iasonas Fotililas. I would ask the voters to count the votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, until the count is completed, I shall make the following announcements: MEP Mr Theodoros Parastatis asks for a short-day absence abroad from 21-3-2019 to 25-3-2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u112	The House therefore approved the requested permission. I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the room "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-three students and students and three educational attendants from the 77th Municipal School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] [[After REMUNERATION]] I also have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the room "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-six students and students and four educational attendants from the 3rd Elementary School of Stavroupolis Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the vote in this House. The votes shall be per order. OPINION OF THE PARLIAMENT FEDERAL GROUP OF SYRIZA Article 3(1): YES 156 NO 101 REFERENCES 15 TOTAL 272 Article 3(2): YES 156 NO 101 REFERENCES 15 TOTAL 272 Article 3(3) (repealing paragraph): YES 171 NO 99 REFERENCES 2 TOTAL 272 Article 3 (introduction of an interpretative declaration): YES 156 NO 114 REFERENCES 2 TOTAL 272 Article 13(5): YES 154 NO 99 IN THE CHAIR: MRS 19 TOTAL 272 Article 21(1): YES 160 NO 110 REFERENCES 2 TOTAL 272 Article 21(3): YES 160 NO 110 REFERENCES 2 TOTAL 272 Article 21 (Additional paragraph 7): YES 158 NO 112 REFERENCES 2 TOTAL 272 Article 22(1): YES 173 NO 95 REFERENCES 4 TOTAL 272 Article 22(2): YES 160 NO 108 REFERENCES 4 TOTAL 272 Article 22(4): YES 164 NO 103 REGISTER 5 TOTAL 272 Article 22(5): YES 158 NO 111 REFERENCES 3 TOTAL 272 Article 28(2): YES 154 NO 118 INTRODUCTION 0 TOTAL 272 Article 32(4): YES 224 NO 47 IN WITNESS 1 TOTAL 272 Article 32(5): YES 224 NO 47 IN WITNESS 1 TOTAL 272 Article 33(2): YES 169 NO 99 REFERENCES 4 TOTAL 272 Article 37(2): YES 153 NO 104 REFERENCES 15 TOTAL 272 Article 38(1): YES 154 NO 117 IN WITNESS 1 TOTAL 272 Article 44(2): YES 153 NO 104 REFERENCES 15 TOTAL 272 Article 54(1): YES 156 NO 99 MONITORING 16 TOTAL 271 Article 54(4): YES 160 NO 97 REFERENCES 15 TOTAL 272 Article 54 (importation of an interpretative declaration): YES 155 NO 115 REFERENCES 2 TOTAL 272 Article 56 (Additional paragraph 5): YES 157 NO 113 IN WITNESS 1 TOTAL 271 Article 59(1): YES 169 NO 100 REFERENCES 3 TOTAL 272 Article 59(2) YES 169 NO 98 REFERENCES 3 TOTAL 270 Article 62 YES 237 NO 34 INTRODUCTION 0 TOTAL 271 Article 73 YES 171 NO 98 REFERENCES 3 TOTAL 272 Article 84(2) YES 154 NO 117 IN WITNESS 1 TOTAL 272 Article 86(3) YES 255 NO 17 INTRODUCTION 0 TOTAL 272 Article 86 (importation of an interpretative declaration) YES 175 NO 95 IN WITNESS 1 TOTAL 271 Article 101a YES 232 NO 36 REFERENCES 4 TOTAL 272 Article 102(2) YES 169 NO 101 REFERENCES 2 TOTAL 272 OPINION OF THE PARLIAMENT OF THE NEW REPUBLIC Article 68(2) YES 247 NO 20 REGISTER 5 TOTAL 272 Article 112(4) (repealing paragraph) YES 234 NO 20 REFERENCES 18 TOTAL 272 Article 113 (repealed) YES 233 NO 20 IN THE CHAIR: MRS 19 TOTAL 272 Article 114(1) YES 232 NO 21 IN THE CHAIR: MRS 19 TOTAL 272 Article 114(2) (repealing paragraph) YES 233 NO 21 REFERENCES 18 TOTAL 272 Article 115(1) YES 232 NO 20 REFERENCES 20 TOTAL 272 Article 115(2) YES 232 NO 20 REFERENCES 20 TOTAL 272 Article 115(3) (repealing paragraph) YES 232 NO 20 REFERENCES 20 TOTAL 272 Article 115(4) (repealing paragraph) YES 232 NO 20 REFERENCES 20 TOTAL 272 Article 119(1) (repealing paragraph) YES 232 NO 20 REFERENCES 20 TOTAL 272 APPLICATION OF THE COMPETITION RULES IN THE EUROPEAN UNION Article 5(2): YES 174 NO 98 INTRODUCTION 0 TOTAL 272 Article 25(3): YES 171 NO 98 REFERENCES 3 TOTAL 272 Article 38(2): YES 159 NO 97 MONITORING 16 TOTAL 272 Article 96(5): YES 237 NO 17 REFERENCES 18 TOTAL 272 Article 101(1): YES 153 NO 97 REFERENCES 22 TOTAL 272 Article 101(4): YES 174 NO 95 REFERENCES 3 TOTAL 272 Article 101 (introduction of an interpretative paragraph): YES 174 NO 96 REFERENCES 2 TOTAL 272 Members' positions will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-14-S1-commons.u115	With the consent of the House at 20.26 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 15 March 2019, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
