ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's approval from 22-7-2019, the minutes of its PRACTICE sessions, of Monday 22 June 2019, with regard to Parliament's vote of confidence to the Government were confirmed by the Bureau.]] Ladies and gentlemen, a good start, because it is, in fact, the first sitting on the legislative work of the House. Before entering the agenda for the legislative work, some communications have to be made. The first issue is what is customary for government change. Because it is inappropriate to read you fifty names, of those who have changed and fifty new names, of the new Ministers, I assume that I have your agreement to submit it in the Minutes for briefing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u2	Secondly, the Minister of State, the Vice-President of the Government, the Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Homeland, State, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime Affairs, Rural Development and Tourism, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Foreign Affairs and Civil Protection have tabled a draft law on 25-7-2019: "First State: organisation, operation and transparency of the Government, Government Institutions and Central Public Administration". It was referred to the competent Standing Committee. The Minister of Finance also submitted a draft law on 26-7-2019: ‘ENPIA Reduction and improvements in the settlement of debts to the Tax Administration of Law 4611/2019’. This draft law has been characterised by the government as urgent. It was also referred to the relevant Standing Committee. Continuing to inform you that the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs is tabling its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Reduction of HISPIA and improvements in the settlement of debts to the Tax Administration of Law 4611/2019". Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House Protocol No 11916/6781 of 23 July 2019 a decision by the President of the Parliament on the establishment and establishment of the Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics. This decision has been posted to Parliament's Transparency and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u3	The Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics shall submit its reports to the Prosecutor's requests for authorisation to prosecute a criminal prosecution against a Member. According to Article 57(1) and (2) of the Constitution, MP Trikalons of the New Republic, Athanasios Ljutas, with a statement to the President of Parliament, Mr Constantino Tsouula, states: ‘Mr. President, under the decision of the Multimember Court of First Instance of Trikalon, I was declared a Member of the Electoral Region of Trikala during the parliamentary elections held on 7 July 2019. I hereby submit to you a statement of the choice of a parliamentary office and resignation from other qualities of the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 57 of the Constitution. O declarant, Athanasios Ljutas, MP of the New Democracy Trikalons.’
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u4	Thessaloniki MP of SYRIZA Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from 21 August 2019 until 23 August 2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u5	The House therefore approved the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only a discussion and a vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: “HIVIA Reduction and improvements in the settlement of debts to the Tax Administration of Law 4611/2019 (A ́73)”. The government will be represented by Mr. Vesiropoulos and around 14.00" will also be presented by the Minister, who is in Fthiotis for the funeral of Metropolitan Fthiotis. The above bill, following the decision taken by the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs on a proposal from the Minister responsible, is discussed in accordance with the urgency procedure, in accordance with Rule 76(4) of the Constitution and Rule 109 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. I would like to remind you that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of this House, the debate and vote of the urgent drafts is closed at a meeting of a maximum of ten hours. During the urgent procedure, the rapporteurs and special speakers, the Prime Minister or the Minister responsible, the Presidents of the parliamentary groups and one of their representatives are involved in the debate. Their speech is limited to half the time provided for in Rules 97 and 103 of the Rules of Procedure. This concerns the parliamentary representatives, if the chairmen of their parliamentary groups have preceded them. I propose, in parliamentary practice, that the debate on the principle and the articles be uniform. I also propose that the list of speakers be extended and that two speakers be appointed by each parliamentary group. As far as speaking time is concerned, I tell you what comes from the Rules of Procedure, but beforehand I say that there will also be tolerance for the rapporteurs and for the special speakers and for the other six Members and, of course, for the parliamentary representatives. The rapporteurs and the special speakers have eight minutes' speaking time, the competent ministers ten minutes, any other ministers and Secretarys of State five minutes. The Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, as well as the President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, have ten minutes, the Presidents of the other Parliamentary Groups eight minutes, the Parliamentary Representatives, ten minutes, the speakers appointed by the parties five minutes. Indicative times are, there will be tolerance from the Bureau. I am not talking about the Presidents of the parliamentary groups who, anyway, do not follow the times. Does the House agree with this procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u7	So the House unanimously agreed. I call on the rapporteur, Mr Vassiliou, for his maiden speech to begin at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today I have the opportunity and at the same time the honour, as a newly elected Member, to introduce the first bill, the first tax bill of the current parliamentary term being discussed in plenary and, indeed, the urgency procedure. It is being discussed in the urgent procedure because citizens and businesses are waiting for tax cuts and, in a few weeks' time from now, they will finally face the cleansing of the ENPI, reduced, as well as an implementation that is available to regulate their debts, which created a bad economic policy, overtaxation, the previous government of SYRIZA. I would like, however, from the Stepma, where I speak for the first time, to say a great thank you to the Prime Minister of the country, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, for the confidence and opportunity that gives a new Member to propose such an important bill for the Greek society. I would also like to say a great deal of thanks to the citizens of the country's largest constituency, the voters of the South sector of B3 of Athens for the opportunity and opportunity they gave me to represent them in this House among my very worthy colleagues. Today I represent an area which, like the whole country, has been affected by the high, unjustified taxation in recent years. It is time, then, for us to fight policies within Parliament, for us to transfer the anxiety of the citizens here to the source of democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government received a strong mandate on 7 July, after a great victory in the European elections of 26 May, telling the Greek people truths. We have clearly spoken to the Greek people about another mixture of policy, economic policy, tax reduction, a Greece of opportunity, which rewards consistency and which will finally put an end to the experiments and ideas of SYRIZA. We have made clear that we will strengthen the impossible incomes and return to the middle class what was denied by the government of Alexis Tsipras, which brought the capital control and three 'problems', such as those of overtaxation, tax evasion and the launching of debts and debtors. Approximately 75 billion were owed by the debtors in 2014. Now they owe over 104 billion. This is the footprint of the previous government. Now, this tax bill is in the right direction, as it brings tax relief, and in fact in 2019 and not since 2020, as was announced by our resignation in the run-up to the election. We, ladies and gentlemen, are talking about economic efficiency and real social justice. It would be a long omission, ladies and gentlemen, not to remind the House that much of the reform of the New Democracy is also the tax reform that is taking place today with this bill. Therefore, we are not just talking about a tax bill, but about provisions aimed at alleviating and developing the Greek economy. This bill, however, ladies and gentlemen, brings along with the tax evasions and another culture in the life of the country, after giving opportunities to the debtors, rewards the consensuals and returns to the low incomes and the middle class what the SYRIZA government has been deprived of with the manipulations and experiments it has conducted on the backs of the Greek people, depriving the smile from our lips and dignity from our homes. With this bill, we send out a clear message to the citizens that we are at the forefront of implementing a substantial, stable, reliable tax policy that the country needs and that will lead our Greece to real growth and regenerate the credibility of the Greek economy. We therefore call on citizens and businesses to make a new start with tax administration, a new start with the state. And I would like to tell them from the Step forward that this bill is the beginning of many positive measures brought by the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, the Government of New Democracy. Because we believe in reducing taxes, we want to develop entrepreneurship, we seek a Greece of opportunities. And we're gonna get it! We want new and well-paid jobs, we want to see pensioners living with real pride, to have our neighborhoods again the smile they deserve. Tax policy needs a holistic reform to support middle-class and encourage healthy entrepreneurship. As the government had previously committed itself, it sought to give a solution to chronic economic problems affecting citizens by reducing their tax burdens. But horizontal overtaxation, imposed by the previous government, had reduced the possibility of the middle-class survival, and that is the truth. There is a need for legislative intervention today, which seeks to regulate the degraded situation of businesses and households affected by the country's memorandum cuts. It is within the framework of the new government's policy to ensure primary surpluses through growth rather than overtaxation, which you have made, ladies and gentlemen. It is a fair measure that helps the middle class to recover, stand on its feet and get into the production process, thus increasing its tax capacity. This draft law has two main priorities: to reduce HPAI and to widen the hundreds of twenty doses to legal persons and legal entities of a speculative nature that did not have the opportunity to deal with the previous regulation. It so relieves our fellow citizens who have been in a bad economic situation. It helps the weaker and middle class by restoring the injustices and distortions of the past. It rewards the perpetual ones, encourages them to pay the obligations. Let us now come to the special provisions of the bill. Article 1: It provides that ENVIRONMENT is to be reduced mid-term by 22% for 2019, without being excluded from the tax reduction. I repeat, without being excluded from the tax reduction! The reduction according to the value of the real estate is escalating. This is how even care is taken for our weakest fellow citizens and the middle class. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like your tolerance for a moment, Mr President. For small property of up to EUR 60,000 there is a 30% reduction in real estate of 60,000 to 70,000 reduction of 27%, 70,000 to 80,000 reduction of 25%, 80,000 to 1,000 000 reduction of 20%, and 10% reduction of 10% in very large property. Looking at the financial data, only fourteen thousand eight hundred forty-forty-three taxpayers in a total of seven million three hundred and ten thousand, eighty-five taxpayers belong to the category with a real estate value of more than EUR 1 million, while the relief for this category will only be EUR 22,000,000 to a total of EUR 465,000. In other words, only 5% of the total relief relates to this category. Taxers who have not benefited from the previous regulation and will benefit from this arrangement, from 200,000 euros or more, are four hundred and seventy-three thousand forty, while one million, ninety-four thousand five taxpayers will benefit more than the previous arrangement, from 80,000 to 200,000. Immediately, millions of owners are being relieved, the real estate market is being stimulated and, of course, the bank portfolio is being improved. The total additional cost will be EUR 205,000. And let me give three examples to be specific and to be much more understandable to the Greek people. In the area of the Painting apartment of 100 square meters with a storage room of 11 meters would pay a tax of 499 euros. With today's bill in the 2019 clearing house, you will see a new 20% tax less, i.e. EUR 399.77. In the region of Kallithea for two small professional roofs of 27 and 28 square meters near Davaki Square and for a 50-mile residence in Charokopoulos, of old age, worth EUR 66.588 - because I heard a few questions yesterday in the Committee on Values - the tax was EUR 398. Now, with the new 2019 tax, we have 27% reduction, i.e. the ENPIA will be EUR 290. And if you want, we should go to another area. For an apartment in Glyfada 144 meters with a year of construction in 1999, the tax was EUR 711,58. Now it will be reduced by 20% and it will go, with the new clearing house that the citizens will receive in a few weeks' time, to 577 euros. The second priority of this bill is the improvement and expansion of the institutional framework for the regulation of an hundred and twenty instalments. In accordance with Article 2, the minimum monthly payment shall be reduced from EUR 30 to EUR 20 in order to allow more debtors to be able to be consistent with the arrangement. The proposed provision enables doses to be increased, encourages consistency and relieves debtors, especially those who serve other arrangements that come from the past. The interest rate currently borne by households and businesses is reduced from 5% to 3% both in order to avoid a higher burden on the debtor and on grounds of equality with public debt. This reduction in the interest rate is necessary in order to avoid excessive burden on the debtor. The regulation is widened in up to a hundred twenty instalments by subjecting to it all the legal persons having a basic debt, that is - pay attention! - the sum of guaranteed debts, without surcharges and interest - late payment is meant - up to EUR 1 000 000. That is to say, legal persons whose basic debt is up to EUR 1,000 000 can enter into this arrangement. There are also ten interest-free ladders and late payment increases - ten categories, ten ladders - starting at 10% and reaching 100%. It therefore provides for a partial or total exemption from interest and late payment increases. For example, if one is due and wants to pay in three years, he will have free of interest and late payment of 75%. The debtor may also, at any stage of the arrangement, choose to pay off the remaining number of instalments or to transfer to a lower number of instalments at the same time as exemption on the remaining amount of increment and interest at a rate corresponding to the number of monthly instalments finally selected.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Spankee, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u10	One more minute, Mr President. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] If an amount equal to twice the monthly instalment of the arrangement is paid during the entry into the arrangement, an equivalent exemption shall be granted for total increases and late payment interest, giving an incentive to pay as little as possible. For those who join and follow the arrangement, seizures are suspended - at last! - and the forced recovery measures. Under this arrangement, the seizure imposed shall be inactivated for the debtor’s claims following the disclosure of the inactivation of the seizure to a third party, in particular credit institutions. With this provision - and I conclude, Mr President, in one minute - the great problem of seizures in third parties is resolved. Debtholders who have already made - something very important - to regulate their debts with the current institutional framework, are given the opportunity to choose - if they so wish - to be subject to the arrangements of the present institutional framework. Debts certified in 2019 shall be entered in the arrangement where the time limit for the submission of the declaration was 31-12-2018. In simple terms, this regulation can be subject to up to two hundred and fifty thousand legal persons who currently owe around EUR 4.5 billion and over a million natural persons who currently owe about 9 billion, while at the same time we are talking about the more flexible regulation of the last few years, regulation - an opportunity, I would say, for households and businesses. So it's not - because yesterday I heard the committee the former Minister, Ms. Papanatsiou - retourism...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u11	Close with this, Mr. Spaniard.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u12	...when the possibility of a million two hundred and fifty thousand natural and legal persons join a arrangement. It is pointed out that this arrangement...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Spankee, do you hear what I'm saying? Close in minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u14	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u15	You've already said that three times.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u16	I shall conclude, Mr President. I hear SYRIZA's colleagues - not my fellow Members, colleagues - talking about Ekali and the big estates. I would therefore like to ask Mr Tsakalotos a question, or, if he cannot answer it, Mrs Papanatsiou: On your day in a region of Kallithea, in Djijifies - I think you know where the Gijifis - you have increased the zone price, the objective values, by 48%. The zone price from 1.050 euros took it to 1.550 euros. The HICP's rate from 3.7 euros square went to 4.5 euros square. That was your philosophical policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u17	And that's all you've done, Mr. Spanaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u18	So I call on the House to vote in favour of the first tax bill, a bill which is very useful to the Greek society, brought by the Government of New Democracy, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, as it had promised beforehand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u19	Such tolerance will also exist for other speakers, especially younger ones, because of a special meeting today. But that's not how it's gonna go from now on. Keep it in mind. Mrs Catherine Papanatziou, the rapporteur-general, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the so-called 'tax bill', a bill which brings small changes to our own regulations. Ladies and gentlemen, we have gone to targeted tax reductions. We had a specific plan and a policy that allowed us to find the financial area to proceed with permanent measures. Today you say at once that there is additional financial space and that you are also making changes. So you accept, even now, that the situation of the economy, as you have received it, is at least stable. On the subject of ENPI: First of all, we have to point out that the interventions are following our own interventions aimed at alleviating the low and medium-sized order. However, we did not rest on the logic of fiscal oppression, but we went to key interventions, in any case highlighting the basic orientation of our government, which was the protection of our weakest economic fellow citizens. We have ensured for the current year a 10% reduction in HPAI with an emphasis on low assets of up to EUR 60,000, in which the reduction would reach 30% and with a gradual reduction in this percentage for property up to a little over EUR 200,000. Our overall plan, however, was also extended to a further reduction in 2020 by 30%, which for small and medium-sized assets would reach 50%, i.e. half the tax burden for our fellow citizens with small and medium-sized assets. First of all, the reduction rate you bring about is 22% for the current year, but you say that it is 22%, instead of 30% for the next year and for the following years. But you also promised in your programme a 30% reduction. You will have to answer us if you intend to proceed with an intervention next year or if you ultimately limit the reduction we have planned and partly implemented. But that is the least, as we have noted in the committee responsible, with the regulation you are bringing. Now you are taking advantage of the great estates. It is not fair to think that you are giving the majority of the extra budget space to 3.5% of taxpayers for high-value assets up to and including EUR 1 million. Ladies and gentlemen, we made two proposals yesterday in committee based on the logic of tax justice, and we believe that the way you treat small and medium-sized property is at least ineffective. A EUR 80,000 fortune cannot be treated with a 20% reduction and just a EUR 1 million fortune itself. I do much more when you choose to go through the reduction to the highest points above EUR 1 million with 10%. We have opposed you with the amendment we tabled yesterday to limit the reduction to EUR 500,000 and to give this amount to the small and truly medium-sized assets that really need it. 40% for 60,000 euros, 30% for 100,000, 25% for 150,000, 20% to 350,000 and 10% to 500,000. In addition, we have tabled an amendment to you at a small financial cost, for something that we had planned and was in our planning for next year, and it concerns the abolition of HPAI for permanent residents on islands of less than a thousand inhabitants. Are you going to accept them or not? We're waiting for an answer. Does it require a tax reduction of EUR 1 million from the hundreds of twenty-six permanent residents in Agathonisi, of which sixty-seven people have incomes up to a little over 20,000 euros? Do the fourteen thousand citizens have a greater need to reduce their tax than the two hundred seventy permanent residents in Agios Efstratios, of which sixty-nine have incomes of up to EUR 20,000? Or do the four hundred and eighty-eight permanent residents in Psara have less need to reduce, of which the two hundred ninety-nine have incomes of up to EUR 20,000? We, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment to these fellow citizens. With this Greece, we are. So why do you choose to give about the same reduction? Do you not know that mathematically reducing the very large properties will be more beneficial than small and medium-sized properties? We invite you to vote together in favour of this amendment to provide a message for the new parliamentary term. Now that we don't leave anything unanswered. It was said yesterday and today by the rapporteur of the New Democracy for the increase of the ENPI. Let us remember that it is a 2013 law, and even budgetaryly heavy, that replaced the equally heavy EBRD and the EBRD. In addition to the corrections we made on various issues, such as the certificate of HICP, the bankruptcy agent, the extension of the beneficiaries of the exemption for the cause of death and parental benefit, for the acquisition of first residence, we increased at the same time, when there were increases in the rates bands, the lower rate by increasing the first scale of the first step from 0 to 500 euros to 0 to 550 euros. We have accordingly increased the number of zones subject to a coefficient of EUR 2,9 instead of EUR 3,7 per square metre, increasing the third step from 750 to 1000, to 750 to 1050. But let's also say some figures on the real estate tax. You have already imposed the EMCDDA through the first two Memorandums since 2011. In 2014 you applied the ENVY with a certificate of 3.7 billion. In 2018, the ENPIA established by us was 3.2 billion. How, then, did ENPIA grow and who was more burdening? To speak clearly about what we have not done, but to speak even more clearly about what we have done. I would also like to remind the Minister, although he is not here today, that he has served throughout the period mentioned in the General Accounting Office of the State. I think he will remember both taxes and cuts in expenditure. Let's go to 20 doses now. The new Republic’s current governance debts in January 2013 amounted to EUR 56,1 billion. When we took over in January 2015, 75.2 billion, was no sign of any conspicuous and evidently magnified. Therefore, under the rule of New Democracy, dues have increased by around EUR 20 billion over a period of two years. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] On the contrary, after four years of governance, real time - because 18.27 billion have been declared unacceptable for recovery - was 86.05 billion and the rate of growth is apparently falling. In other words, we have received arrears of EUR 76 billion, and we have moved with the sole aim of resolving the country and resolving the problems that we have been inherited as a reserve and not as a reserve. As far as the interventions are concerned now in the hundred and twenty instalments, as we have said in committee, we do not have any disagreement. The regulation of 20 doses mainly concerned our fellow citizens who had real economic weakness. To these fellow citizens we are giving another chance to get rid of the increased financial burdens and achieve a sustainable service to their tax obligations. A regulation with clear differences between ordinary citizens, institutions and non-profit entities on the one hand and commercial speculators on the other with clearly defined criteria for the first in order to respond effectively and effectively to the real needs of the citizens, but also to ensure the country's public revenues in an objective manner. Then, precisely because our government was taking part in the real problems of the world, but also in the market, by monitoring the implementation of the regulation, we have seen a visible gap with regard to small, generally family-owned enterprises, and we have immediately made a legislative act more favourable to these companies with a turnover of up to EUR 2 million. With regard to both the reduction of interest rates and the reduction of the minimum dose, we will not stand across. They were choices we examined. However, by weighting, in particular, the dynamics developed by the economy and with the primary aim of enabling our fellow citizens to get rid of the accumulated financial burdens of the past as quickly as possible, we have chosen differently. Nevertheless, we had within the law provisions that strengthened the low income levels, such as the one which exempts our fellow citizens from any interest rate who owe up to EUR 3 000 and have an annual income of up to EUR 10,000. I will not go into further amendments as we have been placed in committee. You remove two articles of the Act of Legislative Action, but reintroduce the second one on your own proposal, so it is not new. You are effectively abolishing the article concerning companies with 2 million turnover. Our major disagreement is the integration into regulation based on the debt of EUR 1 million, the basic debt, as the Minister said. That is to say, think that a basic debt of EUR 1 million may be an old debt of EUR 2 million today. We have had a lot of time in yesterday's debate. This new form of regulation for companies regardless of form introduced has another special feature. It does not take into account any criteria. It leads to unequal treatment against natural persons, wagers, pensioners, neighborhood traders. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that you won the elections does not give you forgiveness for the country's bankruptcy, do not pretend that you do not remember. We didn't forget. We do not forget that most of the tax burdens together with unreasonable cuts in wages and pensions have been made between 2010 and 2014. You know that, we remember it. The citizens have experienced it, and at the end they will judge us again. Finally, we are here not for sterile criticism. We voted in principle on the bill without many krone, we have made constructive proposals with our own perspective, social fairs for the decongestion of our fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u21	We proceed with Mr Scanadalidis Konstantinos, who is the special speaker from the Change Movement. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, I fully understand the practice of the Prime Minister dictating the first sample of his government's writing. It rushes, firstly, to quickly show reflexes and readiness and, secondly, to create a climate of active government support, bringing about a vote of what sounds pleasant to the people's ears. With the 2019 legislative initiative to reduce HPAI and the hundred and twenty instalments, the Minister of Finance promises a single reduction this year and attempts to settle debts to the public, legal and natural persons. She hopes this will happen for the last time. I do not share his optimism, nor do I agree with the perpetuality of tax reductions, nor with the certainty of the last time in the regulation of loans. This is because I have a strong doubt as to whether the fragmentary arrangements are part of a comprehensive development plan. It is another thing to prejudge organisational patterns of better governance, for which I do not underestimate their usefulness, regardless of agreement or disagreement with the government's proposal and another to prejudge a draft national objectives and a comprehensive strategy for the country. For many years now, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a constant demand for a stable tax system and not constant changes which make development easier. All governments in the past, despite their declarations, must confess, have failed to achieve this issue which is a real routine for Europe. Electorally, the Prime Minister claimed that he was ready for the overall solution. However, this solution has already been broken down into two bills with a transfer for later to the final proposal. Of course, such arrangements must come within the broad framework of fiscal stability. It is good and useful to reduce HPAI, but what mixture of policy - to use a dear to the Prime Minister - is part of it? Without a renegotiation of the surpluses and a reduction in the relative commitment it is impossible, in our view, to speak of a new mix of economic policy. When the Prime Minister himself rushed to pre-reservation until 3.5% in 2021-2022, how will the necessary financial space be created? I fear, fear, that the public investment programme, the social state, cuts in expenditure and income will return further. But here we will be in both the budget and the medium-term development since September to discuss these major issues that we are still waiting to see from the government's announcements. You will allow me here to make a wider comment on what has been said in the country: Political change if it was accompanied by another tactic and initiative, that the government should raise matters with our partners, if we proceed to national front and negotiation procedures, we would be able to reliably claim the renegotiation of our commitments. We would have another starting point and the feeling of a really new course in the country. Because it is not enough for the fragile political culture and the post-election vulnerability in conditions of summer race, nor for the overworking of the government and Parliament in the middle of holidays. It requires a comprehensive reconstruction plan for the country which, as I said, was unfortunately absent from the Prime Minister's programme statements. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the content of this draft law we are discussing today is concerned, our attitude is entirely consistent with the principles and content of the kind of opposition that we want to exercise. Especially when it comes to the issues relating to the ENPI and the hundred and twenty instalments of issues, not only did we put forward first integrated proposals in the form of a law proposal since last November, but we have so far voted on every improvement that the previous government has attempted to achieve, obviously for election reasons. And I must tell you that our proposal, which has never come to a debate in the Greek Parliament, was comprehensive and costed and gave an answer to all the issues that were related to support for the social strata, the reconstruction of the social state and all the vulnerable population groups. This draft law and the arrangements it proposes are part of the effort to relieve and support small and medium-sized incomes and enable small and medium-sized enterprises to settle their debts and, if they are sustainable, to survive and grow. Therefore, it is - and to be clear about our declarations and our proposals - that our vote is understandable, despite the reservations we have and which I expressed yesterday at the meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. I am therefore coming back to the reduction of HISPIA: Firstly, we propose that the properties belonging to traditional and preserved settlements, as well as the individual ones classified as a preserver, should be incorporated by 50%. Also, with the same reduction in bioclimatic buildings with an energy identity and a positive ecological footprint. The rationale of the reduction is the excessive cost of maintenance and renovation of the real estate of this type of multiple the corresponding balances. Secondly, the regulation of Article 1 is essentially done for 2019 alone. We should agree that the land and plots outside the town plan or settlement in the peninsula should be excluded from this procedure. It is therefore necessary to consolidate the exemption as a permanent measure and include it in the draft law separately. Thirdly, I think it is right that, as I said yesterday, another scale be inserted between 20% and 25% for the properties of the intermediate value in order to obtain further relief in real estate, which is in very reasonable contexts, and why there is a huge distance between the numbers of 20% and 25%. And now one question: Obviously all this is done on the condition that objective values will not change this year. We would like a government commitment that there will be no such possibility, because this will mean a really big change in what we are voting on today. With regard to the regulation of the hundred and twenty instalments, it should be noted in this draft law that insurance contributions should be included, that the debtors’ obligations can also be voluntarily included in the new regulation. With these remarks we are voting in favour of both the draft law in principle and the articles. We will continue on the road that we have worked on. Oppositely against what affects national interests and the decent living of citizens, positive participants in what serves and mainly serves them, and above all we will propose our own proposal and solution to every issue, on every issue. So we mean the responsible, combative programme opposition, so we understand our role as a progressive pole in the political system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, I have an unpleasant announcement to make.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u24	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo, do it, even though unpleasant. But I think it should be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u25	We are obliged to do so as a parliamentary group, but I believe that all together as a Parliament of the Greeks. I was briefly informed by Mr. Kegeroglou that Manolis Skoulakis left life. He had been a Member for too many years and a great many years Minister and mayor of Chania. The grief is not only general in Chania and Crete, but I think in all of Greece, to those who knew it. Mr President, I would like to express my condolences to his family and to his relatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u26	Manolis Skoulakis, we all knew him, especially the doctors because of his dual status. And I'm surprised that one, two, months ago, I met him here in the House and we drank coffee and we talked about it. I think, therefore, that I am expressing the whole House in its condolences to its family, and even though it is a little pointless before the burial takes place, I would ask you to keep a minute of silence in Manolis Skoulakis' memory. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] His memory is eternity! Thank you. We proceed with the special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr George Lambroulis. Here, Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Under no circumstances do the proposed arrangements touch a memorandum of antique arsenal, they do not lead to the loss of the workers, the people, while trying to make the known "I get you 100 and I give you back 1", you ask the people to say and thank you for the crumbs, at the same time as all governments, New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK, in order to plunge business groups with development laws, incentives, tax exemptions and tax reliefs, liquidity and so on. The aim is to cultivate a climate of tolerance, patience, to be viewed as past - forgetting the enormous losses of the people in the years of the crisis, but above all to go through without reacting to the next anti-grassroots measures that capital needs, under conditions of natural exacerbation of capitalist competition. With intact all the anti-grassroots you have institutionalised alternately, New Democracy before, after SYRIZA, PASOK, with the successive tax reductions, the VAT increases, the take-off of direct and indirect tax paid by the people, with enhanced and continued attack on wages, pensions, with the people paying more and more for health, welfare, medicine and more, you present as a breath and a positive measure the fact that the indebted people in debt are being facilitated in order to pay the greatest possible proportion of the anti-grasss suits imposed upon them, by extortion of seizures and auctions to wait for them in the corner. We would remind you that the tax burden that has increased in recent years in the name of budgetary targets and bloody surpluses has been applied out of the previous New Democracy Government, and of course the SYRIZA government has enriched it by bleeding all these years the workers, the self-employed, the small and medium-sized farms, the pensioners in order to save the banks, the industrialists, and so on. Wasn't the New Democracy the first in these policies, for example, to complete the tax relief for the self-employed and to tax them from the first euro, at the end of the trade, on the advance tax to 100%, on the ENPI and others? These policies have largely led thousands of professionals and workers to owe everywhere, to the tax office, to the FBI, to banks and elsewhere. So the New Democracy is not innocent of blood, and precisely these policies are still in full force today, in order to support the major capitalist enterprises, for which you are preparing new tax exemptions and aids, as is the light of the light of the day and of the programme announcements. That is why the limited improvements promoted within the framework of the hundreds of twenty instalments are mocking arrangements, which are seen as alleviating mainly to legalise unfair, anti-grazing taxes and debts in the conscience of the workers, the self-employed, farmers and others. At the same time, like the previous SYRIZA government regulations, you are seeking to facilitate the repayment of all these debts up to the last euro, knowing that the majority does not have, cannot meet old and new obligations. So, not only do you not give a single euro, you do, on the contrary, continue with tax bleeding. Of course, for those who fail to manage to cope with the multiple regulations, either for the tax office or for the tax office, for the banks, for PPC, for the account commitments, for seizures, for electronic auctions are expected at the corner. So in today's conditions of overcompensation, in conditions of heightened competition and free market, where big fish eats the little, it is clear that the majority, for example, of self-employed debtors will work nights - day to pay old and new debts, living under conditions of daily insecurity as to whether they can live themselves and their families. Not only do you make it easier for them to fight for survival on a daily basis, but contrary to all the policies that you are implementing both of your own, but also of the previous governments, you are maintaining their deadlocks. That is why the workers, the self-employed, the self-employed and the small and medium-sized farmers must not stumble in the measures of another anti-popular government aimed at getting their tolerance, but strengthening their fight for their rights. The JRC, as in the previous period, but also as it has been promised in the pre-election period, reinstates Parliament, if you would like, in this House, by considering the urgent need for immediate measures to be taken in the current conditions for the relief of both employees, self-employed and other people's populations, through which it proposes: Deleting all interest and surcharges for public debts up to EUR 20,000 with a 30% reduction in the original guaranteed debt for debtors with an annual taxable income of up to EUR 20,000, while for the unemployed the deletion of that debt is 50%. Abolition of the solidarity levy and the trade fee for taxable annual incomes up to EUR 20,000. Delete the interest and surcharges for debts of up to EUR 50,000 to the insurance funds of the self-employed. For those insured in the OGA, delete interest and surcharges for debts of up to EUR 20,000. Abolition of the contribution to the health sector and deletion of the debts arising therefrom. Granting pensions to those who have fulfilled the conditions, since the total debt does not exceed EUR 50,000. And the debt resulting from the above to the insurance funds and the public is regulated in interest-free monthly equal instalments, which on an annual basis will not exceed 5% of the annual taxable income of up to EUR 20,000. Corresponding to the HICP, the JRC tables an amendment to the current bill, which abolishes HICP in the first and second housing that meets the needs of housing and recreation of the people's family. In return for the abolition of the HICP, the fixed position of the JRC is to increase the taxation of large enterprises and the taxation of the real estate of large businesses, as well as the large real estate. Because the only philosophical regulation for the ENPI is its abolition and that is no government that serves the system can not even whisper it. As much as you are trying to correct HPAI, it does not cease to be an additional anti-grassroot, class measure that is even more kneeling the people to shield the profits of monopolistic groups, purifying the popular families from 2012 to 2018 through successive changes in the name of HPAI that, anyway, remains carved. Wholesale families, therefore, have been taken off with over EUR 20 billion in order to achieve budgetary targets and bloody surpluses. And of course, no one is talking about abolishing the HPAI either from the government, either from SYRIZA or from KINAL. So, after snatching from the people's families over 20 billion, you stress that you will give up 0.5 to 1 billion, to continue to grab at least 1.5 billion annually, at the same time as you have received at the same time from big owners and legal persons at the same time, 2012-2018, only 5 billion and now promise them that you will give them 10 percent to pay just 300 to 400 million. Isn't that a classic, unfair, anti-linguistic measure? Because the greatest injustice in the ENPI can't be corrected. It is the people to pay rent in the house he acquired with labor and sacrifices and in the parcel he cultivates to live. And if something is confirmed through the regulations of the bill, it is that no breath for the workers and the people has been, there is no and there can be no continuing anti-popular policy that is aimed at both New Democracy and SYRIZA before, but also other urban parties. This is a policy that is increasingly cracking the income and rights of the people to support the profits and competitiveness of business groups. No substantial relief can be found as long as the entire monumental arsenal is maintained, the anti-grassroots consequences of which do not concern the past, but are constantly unfolding with the extradition, for example, of the new cut-off pensions of the "law of looting", with the constant generalization of flexibility throughout the working jungle and much more. Real relief for workers and the people can only be achieved through the mass and organized struggle against the real opponent, the capital and the policy of those who serve it. Reply and obstacles to the unpopular attack of lasting and defending labour rights and youth conquests can only bring the struggle of workers and the people to recover their enormous losses, to satisfy their modern needs, to gather forces, so that the people can open up the way that the people will become master of the wealth they produce. And in this race the KIC gave - and gives - all its powers. To conclude, Mr President, I shall refer briefly to the third amendment tabled by the Group of the European People's Party, which concerns the granting of the benefit of dangerous and unhealthy work to the workers of the public limited company "Greek Defence Systems", since, further to a minimum of financial support for the continued effort of these workers to respond to the particular difficulties of their work, it is also a practical recognition of the importance of the services they provide to national defence and security. It also recommends an obligation on the State to ensure that this benefit is paid to all categories of service-providing workers who justify the payment of that allowance. Finally, we are voting'residents', as we have put it in committee, in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u28	We continue with the special speaker from the Greek Solution, Mr. Vassiliardos. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, while following the government's statements and behaviour since it won the elections, I have been very impressed by the fact that it is the first government to be proud of a success story before actually implementing a policy of its own, before it even ruling, while it is well aware of the unfavourable situation of the Greek economy, the most indebted state in world history, both in terms of public policy, but especially in terms of red private debt, which has exceeded EUR 300,000,000,000. It states that the markets support it, invoking the country's low borrowing rates, such as the ten-year bond at 2.05% last night, unfortunately, despite the fact that it is about nominal interest rates and not about the realities that are much larger than all other countries in Europe, since Greece has been immersed in deflation of 0.3% in June. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It does not say that Portugal is borrowing with only 0.43%, Spain with 0.38% for the same ten-year bond, and Germany with negative interest rates at almost 0.40%. However, it will do well to be more careful, since our country's low lending is mainly due to international circumstances. In particular, about 13,000,000 dollars of global bonds are negotiated at negative interest rates. This, along with the downturn in world trade at negative levels, means that there is a recession and possibly a deep crisis in which Greece is completely powerless. I'm filing it in the Minutes. In relation, now, to tax reductions, such as HISPIA, it is certainly in the right direction. However, it is aspirin to a heavy patient who will help little, since in order for Greece to have some hope, it must make drastic reductions in all taxes combined with a large increase in public investment, and it does not have much time to do so. It is also in the right direction that debt arrangements should be such that they can be kept to repay accumulated debts which have become due, not by choice, but by objective weaknesses of the debtors due to the catastrophic memoirs. Starting from HISFIA, as we mentioned in the Committee on Finance, the Greek Solution believes it is an anti-constitutional law that must be abolished if, of course, we assume that our Constitution is not the memoirs. Real estate is a form of savings that should not be taxed, such as the other form of savings, deposits. In addition, the damage to public revenues was - and it is - greater than the benefit, because it has contributed to the sharp decline in building activity since 2008 that has continued since it was adopted. I'm filing it in the Minutes. Furthermore, the Greek Solution considers that the small reduction in HNPH, at around 15% on average, rather than 22% claimed by the Government, will not help revive transactions around property or increase building activity aimed at growth, as New Democracy argued. In any case, in this bill, the Greek Solution proposed the following: First, to adopt an additional reduction of up to 40%, 50% on the criteria for energy and aesthetic upgrading, as the government had promised in an election. Perhaps he did not realize that the cost would be covered by his own, after attracting domestic investments, creating new jobs, increasing GDP, reducing foreign exchange exports for the oil or gas market, etc. Secondly, the reduction of the ETUC to include legal persons, businesses. Thirdly, the suspension of HPAI for buildings, which are not electrical and which are not rented for the time they are not rented, since it is unfair to charge and risk losing their property when they are rented. Fourthly, to legislate not to increase HPAI in 2020 by changing the rates, irrespective of the increase in objective values, in order to bring them closer to trade. Fifthly, to reduce the additional tax which disproportionately burdens the middle-class and to take care of the in-project plots. Now, with regard to the regulation of the hundred and twenty instalments, we have said that the coefficients for deletion of surcharges are too low, so it is likely that they will smuggle collectivity, given the many arrangements that debtors have to serve at the same time. We have drawn attention to the fact that over thirty-six doses, the reduction is extremely disproportionate from 75% to 45%, so it needs to be corrected. Also, the layout of page 2 - Article 2(4) on advance bonuses - we explained why it is dangerous and possibly suspicious. I'm tabling interpretations in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Our proposals here were as follows: Firstly, in order to really help the citizens, especially because they have accumulated a large number of doses because of the crisis, all fines and increases on the cash certificate and on the control imposed on them by the public, should be deleted, since they have been irreversibly affected by the crisis not by their own, but by their governments and by the catastrophic Troika memorials. All citizens, i.e., and not just the above, should be called upon to pay only the capital due. Secondly, given that the current tax obligations are starting, we should immediately increase the number of set-up doses from at least twelve to twenty-four in order not to cause problems in the regulation of a hundred and twenty-digits. We are almost certain that this will reduce or eliminate the observed delays every month. Thirdly, as has been mentioned by many, including New Democracy MPs, it is not possible to settle whether there is a delay of four months and not just two or alternatively, when the debtor can prove that he has actually been found in a failure to pay. In addition, we said that the facility of debtors with serious regulation would have a multiplier benefit from synergies, which are not measurable and not limited to the receipts from these arrangements. Also, any excess money from natural persons and businesses will go towards consumption and investment, increasing the competitiveness of our economy, operating positively for growth, in which case for both GDP and public revenues. However, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs did not accept any of our proposals and none of them. I am sorry to say this, but, unfortunately, Greece is not going to have a future. Despite the imperfections of the bill and the objections we have put forward, we are voting on it in principle and on the articles because they are in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u30	We close with the special speaker from Mera25, Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, what should this bill have, the first urgent tax bill to come in this House? It should have been abolished by 100% of the tax. He's the "Elephant in the room" we refuse to see. It is what makes small and medium-sized enterprises close, which makes it difficult to restore the economy, which is based on these small and medium-sized enterprises. We have tabled an amendment to that effect, but unfortunately it has been rejected. How can the main tax issue be rejected by the first urgent tax bill? We will continue as a PARTA25 to table this proposal, abolishing 100% of the tax, until common sense is restored, until irrationality is stopped. But what does this bill contain? It contains the reduction of HISPIA. We see here the government's attempt to get rid of it, to avoid the categories of classicity, and so it has brought a gradual decline, which its logic is very right. But let's look at the detail. The government is very detailed about minimum incomes. We have a separate reduction for citizens who have real estate of up to EUR 60 000, that is to say 30% reduction, another category for citizens who have sixty to seventy thousand euros of real estate, that is 27% reduction, another category for citizens who have seventy to eighty thousand euros of real estate with 25% reduction and then suddenly a large, giant category that unites all of EUR 80 000 to one million with a single 20% reduction. As if this is how the New Democracy perceives the middle class, a single category, the same category, the ones with eighty thousand euros and those with an objective value of one million euros. Of course, for over a million euros real estate there is a 10% reduction in HIS. All of this would not be a problem if they did not show an unequal distribution of burdens. We also listened carefully to the Committee of Inquiry by the Minister who presented the evidence. Real estate over a million euros has only 0.2% of our fellow citizens. These fellow citizens, the richest in this society, will have a relief of twenty-two million in two hundred. This means that 11% of alleviation will go to this 0.2% of our richest fellow citizens, 540% more than that for them. Isn't that a classy thing? Citizens who have real estate over three hundred thousand euros are only 3.8% of Greek citizens, the richest part of Greeks. To them, the government offers a 50% reduction, ninety million to two hundred. It equates, in other words, the amount it will give to 3.8% of the citizens with what it will give 96.2% of the citizens. Merra25 will vote against this measure precisely for its deep-strength and has brought an amendment to HPAI, which proposes at the very simple time: the abolition of HPAI for citizens who have real estate below EUR 70 000, a 25% reduction for citizens who have real estate from EUR 70 000 to EUR 50 000, no change for people who have real estate from EUR 50 000 to EUR 1 million, and an increase of 10% for citizens who have real estate of more than EUR 1 million, for some need to supplement these reductions and there must be a redistribution of income. That's the role of the state. With regard to the hundred and twenty instalments, is it true that your incentive is to alleviate citizens or is it a tax evasion measure? It is certain that this measure will help to pay off the debts quickly. Who, though, have the opportunity to make a quick payment? To those who have the opportunity, who are the relatively better economic situation citizens, you give many opportunities. If someone has the financial capacity to repay with thirty-six instalments their debts to the public sector, he will have 75% exemption from the surcharges. If one cannot pay them back in less than forty-nine instalments, then he will have only 30% exemption from the surcharges, that is, he is punished for being unable to pay. We will vote on this in order to support the citizens who are in difficulty, but have a strong class mark. With regard to the main tax issues that we expect you to bring to Parliament, the reduction in business tax and VAT, you have announced them. We invite you to do this, but we fear that the figures for the primary surplus do not come out. We fear that you will need to break your promises to the citizens or bring back measures with a strong class mark. Will you be consistent with the citizens or with the lenders? We're afraid you'll still be with the lenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u32	Thank you. The first cycle with the rapporteurs and speakers has been closed. Under the Rules of Procedure, the Secretary-General, Mr Besiropoulos, has asked for the floor, of course, to have the corresponding tolerance. Instead of five minutes, you'll have ten, Lieutenant. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government is consistent with its commitments, but also with the aim of creating conditions for strong and sustainable development, while ending the absurdity of overtaxation, today brings the first legislative intervention in this direction to the National Representation. It comes under the urgency procedure, which is required by the final date set for the regulation of a hundred and twenty doses, but also by our intention to apply from next month, the reduction of HISPIA. This first bill marks, firstly, our political will to reduce taxes; secondly, our intention to support with favourable regulation those who have public debts in order to return to normality and to escape the nightmare of seizures and auctions. My conviction is that the country must move forward and leave behind the barren controversy that leads nowhere. Political dialogue, particularly on economic issues, must be carried out with arguments and evidence. Obviously, the ideas that we saw cannot be seen as a counterpart in yesterday's debate in committee, which is out of reality. Because it is unrealistic that we are accused of being favored mainly by owners of large real estate, because we are talking about a 10% discount on the large real estate of more than EUR 1 000 000, which corresponds to fourteen thousand eight hundred forty-one citizens in a total of seven hundred ten thousand and eighty-five taxpayers. After all, the financial cost of reducing the HPAI for this category is EUR 22,000,000, i.e. 5% of the total financial cost of the reduction in HPAI, amounting to EUR 465,000,000. I would remind you, however, that by the regulation we have introduced one million, ninety-four thousand five taxpayers will benefit more from what the SYRIZA regulation for HISPIA had envisaged. In particular, I should like to remind you that the regulation of SYRIZA prevented five hundred thousand Greek citizens from reducing to five hundred Greek citizens in the logic of a false class policy, because it is a false class policy when this government went on to increase the indirect taxes affecting the weaker. But all this belongs to the past. The Greek people have done so with their vote. The provisions on the reduction of the EMCDDA, which are now to be voted on, are fairly distributed to everyone. The reduction and relief shall apply mutatis mutandis to all. I shall refer in detail. Firstly, for real estate of up to EUR 60,000 the percentage of the reduction is 30%. In this category, there are four million nine hundred thousand taxpayers, representing 67% of all taxpayers, for whom a tax is due. Secondly, for real estate of up to EUR 70,000 the percentage of the reduction is 27%. In this category, there are three hundred forty-four thousand taxpayers, representing 5% of all the taxpayers, for whom a tax is due. Thirdly, for real estate of up to EUR 80,000 the percentage of the reduction is 25%. In this category, there are two hundred and eighty-three thousand taxpayers, representing 4% of all the taxpayers, for whom a tax is due. Fourthly, for real estate of up to a million euros the percentage of HIS reduction is 20%. In this category, there are one million eight hundred thousand taxpayers, who account for 24% of all the taxpayers, for whom a tax is due. From there on, it is important to stop the creation of false impressions - and I will speak with evidence again - because the percentage of those who have real estate from 300,000 to 1,000 000 is 3% of taxpayers. Some, however, forget a very large percentage of beneficiaries who will pay less tax. I am referring to 21% of the real estate taxpayers from EUR 80,000 to EUR 300,000, part of which also pays a supplementary tax. All of these were borne by the previous government by more than doubled the tax rates in the supplementary tax and tax reduction from EUR 300,000 to EUR 200,000. This is another sample of false class policy. Fifthly, for real estate, with a total value of more than EUR 1,000,000, the percentage of the reduction is 10%, and it is only for fourteen thousand eight hundred forty, one owner of real estate. They are therefore all aware, in addition to the tampering and the ideological, that the reduction in HICPIA is greater for the economically weaker and middle class. And because I always speak with examples, I will mention two of them to inspire the new reality: Taxable on immovable property, first, a second floor apartment of seventy-five square meters and, second, a basement garage of fifteen square meters built in 1996 in the IC's zone of the Municipality of Eegaleo at a total value of EUR 58.781,25 paid in 2018 an amount of ENPY 303,06, while in 2019 it will pay EUR 212,14. In other words, the reduction amount is EUR 91 or 30%. Revenue taxed on immovable property, firstly, an eighty-square house and, secondly, a basement garage of fifteen square meters construction 2002 in the 1st zone of the Municipality of Halander at a total value of EUR 69.680 paid in 2018 an amount of EUR 340.25, while in 2019 it will pay EUR 248.38. The reduction amount is 92 euros or 27%. The question, however, is that the citizens themselves, the whole of the Greek taxpayers will see the reduction in the tax on cleaning in a few days' time. So the shadows that some are trying to make little sense are in front of the truth and in fact. The truth is that for the first time, they will be issued cleansingly for HNVY with a reduced tax with a government of New Democracy and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. The second part of the intervention part of this bill relates to improvements and decisive interventions in the regulation of a hundred and twenty instalments. As much as anyone wants to degrade them, the truth and the reality is that an integrated framework of favourable regulations is now in place for natural and legal persons who have public debts. Here, too, we have an established difficulty with Officer Opposition to recognise that this is an optimal institutional intervention to the maximum extent compared with the regulation that she has brought. The first point is that the regulation for the hundred and twenty instalments brought about by the previous government was too late to come, because we are talking about a country where citizens' debts to the public exceed EUR 103 billion, while the total number of citizens having debts exceeds 3.7 million. The one hundred and twenty instalments that the previous government brought in came late and probably would not come if we did not enter an election period. The main thing, however, is that the regulation was incomplete, since it effectively excluded legal persons, had a high interest rate which led to a further burden on the citizens and, moreover, did not provide a solution to the issue of seizures and forced recovery measures for those who were not part of the regulation, which was an anti-motor. On the other hand, we in this bill, and especially in the regulation of the hundred and twenty instalments, have chosen to focus on the motives, because one has to have an incentive to join the arrangement and not to set a stimulus, as was the case with the previous regulation. Just one clue I'll give that's revealing. In 2018, forced measures were taken, due to debts, to a million sixty-eight thousand four hundred thirty-eight taxpayers. The number of forced measures increased compared to 2017 by eighteen thousand three hundred sixty-one. In other words, the low effectiveness index of this arrangement is captured by the numbers. Of the three million seven hundred twenty-three thousand three hundred twenty-nine public debtors, those who joined the arrangement were only eighty-eighty-seven thousand seven hundred forty-four, or 5%. Another element that demonstrates the inefficiency of the previous regulation is that it had incorporated an overall regulated debt of EUR 1.6 billion, i.e. 1.6 of the total tax debt of citizens, which exceeds EUR 103 billion. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I'm gonna need three or four more minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u34	Please, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u35	The 5% interest rate in the previous regulation was very easy not to respond to in one or two instalments and to be dismantled, but, above all, there was no suspension of the forced measures to recover the seizures that were a stimulus for someone to be subject to the arrangement. Today the Government of the New Democracy and the Kyriakos Mitsotakis comes and changes the framework of the regulation of 20 doses with favorable regulations and provisions. Because it is not a retourism, as the rapporteur of Officerial Response said, but a radical change, a suspension of forced recovery measures and seizures. This solves the problem currently faced by public debtors, when, before the regulation, the public has seized the hands of third parties, especially credit institutions. This is because debtors do not have access to bank accounts and lack the liquidity needed for their living needs and the continued operation of their business. And for those who question it, I would like to submit to the minutes the clarification circular issued by the previous government, namely the ADA in June, which stated that the application of therrears to the regulations for the hundreds of twenty instalments, which the SYRIZA Government had carried out, did not suspend the measure of the debtor's confiscation of claims on third parties. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Veyropoulos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned circular, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Apart from that, however, there is also a number of favourable provisions for natural and legal persons in the new regulatory framework for the hundred and twenty instalments. Who are these? Firstly, the reduction of the minimum monthly dose from EUR 30 to EUR 20. Secondly, reducing the interest rate from 5% to 3%, because, as I said yesterday, 5% was a stimulus to join the regulation and led to an increase in the burden. Thirdly, the integration of all legal persons with a basic debt of up to EUR 1 million into the regulation. Fourthly, the possibility of an advance of at least twice the monthly instalment of the arrangement, at the same time granting an exemption equal to the total increase and late payment interest. In fact, deletion of surcharges in case of a one-off payment is 100%. In the event of payment in two to four instalments, the cancellation of incremental increases is 95%. For five to twelve doses, 85% for thirteen to twenty-four doses is 80%, while for twenty-five-six-six-dose increments are 75%. Fifthly, those who have already joined the regulation of Law 4611/2019, which has been in force to date, have the opportunity to join the new regulation. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. The regulation for the hundred and twenty instalments, which we are bringing to the vote has clear and concrete objectives, since, firstly, it will lead to an increase in public revenue, secondly, it will enable households and businesses to return to normality and escape from the nightmare of auctions and seizures, and thirdly, it will enhance liquidity and improve the economic climate in the market. The results will be seen in the progress and development of this regulation and can be compared with the past. This is a second opportunity for everyone, but, above all, this is the last opportunity, since there will be no more regulation of this kind, and I want to make that clear to everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, our aim is to create a sound and stable tax environment, which will also be reflected in the next tax bill, which will be brought in the autumn. A bill that will include the permanent reduction of tax rates for natural and legal persons, the maintenance of duty-free, investment incentives and a new stable and fair Code of Income Taxation, which will incorporate all changes that have taken place in recent years, as well as the case-law of the courts and the regulatory acts adopted by the tax administration. The country is now looking ahead with optimism and confidence. Messages from the bond market show that a strong relationship of confidence begins between the Greek economy and markets. Our aim is for this climate of confidence to be strengthened even more by attracting investment, which for this government will be a consistent and consistent pursuit. The Greek society was afflicted by the populism and the illusions some deliberately produced. He paid a very heavy price from the false promises. Greek citizens deserve the best, and we are determined to offer it to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u36	So I tell you now that any of the Members of Parliament who wishes to speak can speak at any time, as well as any of the chairmen of the parliamentary groups who wish to speak. I'm telling the first five of them now from the second circle of speakers to prepare. It is Mr Voloudakis, Mr Alexiadis, Mr Katrinis, Mr Marinos and Mr Heitas and another five colleagues. Mr. Voloudakis should come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u37	Mr President, on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u38	Just a minute, Mr. Voloudakis. What do you want, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, for the first time, at least in the years I have been, since 2012, there has been a list of speakers - agreed, I do not doubt - but I see that the proportion, at least in the parliamentary groups, is not respected.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u40	How is it not kept?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u41	How is it possible for our group, with eighty-six Members, to have only two speakers? I'm not saying the same thing as everyone else. This has never happened before, even with the excuse of urgency, firstly, that we cannot have speakers and, secondly, that there should be this balance between all, independent parliamentary power. I can't understand that. Is it new morals and new tactics?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u42	No new habits, Mr Colleague, no new tactics, and you're old, I wonder why you're telling me that. For the proportion of five to three, etc., it is an agreement between the parties again. All that you have said is the agreement of the parties on two groups, and indeed the second group, to inform you, for example, the Greek Solution and Mera25 do not have a speaker. It's a deal that's been made. You take it, based on the code, etc., but that was discussed in committee. Therefore, no new morals or new practices. These objections are made to the committee and agreed. The Bureau gets the paper and everything it says in front of it. You know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u43	What will colleagues do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u44	Well, I think your party, who gave the names of your colleagues from SYRIZA, may inform you. I won't replace SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u45	And on the minority side, Mr President, they are two speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Vlao, I was clear, please sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u47	No, so no misunderstandings arise.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u48	The answer I gave is clear, Mr. Symblene has it in front of him. I was clear to say that the five - three were not observed, one - one - one. As a result, the clarifications go beyond that. Mr Manosos Voloudakis has the floor, which I should like to reiterate on the seat of the House. There will also be a tolerance for the second group of colleagues. Five minutes go in, we'll hold tolerance to you too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me, since you are also showing this tolerance, to refer to the unfortunate fact that we have had today. Manolis Skoulakis was a man of offer. He was a true patriot, loved to all in the community of Chania, but also in the great political family of our country. Warm condolences to his family. God rest him! In fact, it was a very unpleasant sudden news from the PASOK colleagues. Condolences to them, too. On the subject. Over-taxation in recent years has been a key issue in these elections. Perhaps it was one of the key issues and the outcome of these elections, because our party had made this issue a flag, because we were saying, saying, and we say that our homeland needs to liberate its productive powers so that it could come out of the crisis and need to remove the excessive tax burden. During the debate on this bill, a political issue is being raised from the point of view of Officerial Response. It's a classic dimension in the bill and SYRIZA says what you're doing with the financially weaker, what are you doing in the middle class, how do you share the relief? First of all, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, let me say that for a faction that was in the government a few weeks ago, it is not serious - I find no other word - it will come and say today what it would do. We know what you've done, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. And we know what you have done in the four and a half years that you have been in power, but also what you have legislated on this issue. It's too recent. Three months ago, Mr. Chakaloto, you brought some reliefs for the ENPIA. Now why are you telling us you'd do something else? Let's see, then, what you did with this three-month relief and how it is compared to what this government brings. First of all, because we are talking about classics, distribution dimensions, etc., I note that the regulation on the weakest, the lowest value of property, up to EUR 60,000, is the same. What you have done, too, is a 30% reduction in the property of up to EUR 60,000 - that is what this government also brings. This government is simply bringing relief to everyone else, something that you have not done and, as is clear from what you have said, you do not want. And, you know, within over 60,000 euros is the middle class of our country, a very broad category of taxpayers. It is about two million taxpayers who have real estate from EUR 60,000 to EUR 200,000. In this category, the relief that comes with the government regulation today is much more important than the one you would have had. You actually had a regulation of up to EUR 60,000, and in a complex way you set a discount of up to EUR 100 for the rest. Let's see it for example. For a fortune of 100,000 euros with our own law, tax reduction will be 20%. With your own law, considering about 100 euros etc., it would be around 12%. For a fortune of EUR 160,000 - look at how it starts and falls - the reduction that comes with this law is, of course, 20% constant, while with your own law it would be around 3%. If we go to EUR 200,000, there is a 20% reduction in our law, but in your own law it actually went off and there was no relief. However, this, ladies and gentlemen, did not work either in terms of social justice, because, within the two million people who have a fortune of up to EUR 200,000, there are people who are actually having a hard time today and because their property has been acquired much earlier, in other circumstances, and because their current income situation does not allow them to serve such a tax burden and, of course, objective values in many cases have nothing to do with real commercial values. So here we have a much fairer regulation, which will also be more effective for the economy. And this regulation, with the EUR 205,000, is being used to alleviate this. Of course, Minister, to be fair, the truth is that the 20% reduction is very broad. He could have scores. It would be even fairer and more effective. But I am sure you can take this into account in a subsequent arrangement. Dear Mrs Papanatsiou, in the committee - perhaps you did not notice yesterday - the Minister made a commitment that the announcement made in the election that the reduction would be 30% in the two-year period is valid. We are starting with a 22% mediation, which comes a year earlier than it had been announced and, of course, will be followed by further regulation. In order not to misuse time, to say a few words about the regulation of the hundred and twenty-dollars, which is still a breath for the market, a breath which you have also very recently designed wrongly, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, because you left legal persons out of regulation. And they are not legal persons - what you would like to give the impression, cultivating the error of protecting the impossibility that you are supposed to be - only the big companies, the multinationals or I don't know who. The legal person is also the IKE that has the café of the village. And he so far couldn't set up, and now he can. The new regulation of 20 instalments for public debts is very important. I welcome, of course, the news we have heard that it will also be extended to the insurance funds. I would like to point out that it is very important, above all, that the new arrangement has a lower interest rate. From 5% to 3% we're going now, it's a very significant relief. But, Minister, the fact is that losing regulation if you lose two instalments is too much. It is too strict for a decade-old regulation. The decade is very difficult to predict in life. Both the natural person and the company may well in a decade find themselves in difficulties. We should not be so strict and we should not take people along the way from this regulation and say that this is the last chance. Check it out, please, for the follow-up. If you are afraid that someone will let doses flow without any reason, you can put a interest rate beyond two instalments. I believe, however, that it will be much more realistic to go to four instalments so that one can make it possible to plan. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this bill is a very good first move, which will breathe into the economy. It is a first step in the release of productive forces and a first step towards overcoming the consequences of the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u50	We continue with our colleague from SYRIZA, Mr. Tryphoon Alexiadis. Mr Alexiadis, the same applies to you as to time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I had to start my speech in response to what has been said previously by speakers of the New Democracy, that we are 'invasive and ideological, that we are not serious'. I wanted to dedicate this to those who have delusional political cultures and to those who have other opinions. But I will not respond to that because we have voted in principle 'yes' in the bill. So in such a bill, insisting on or responding to such designations, I do not think it helps Parliament. But I would like to remind you of questions which we tabled yesterday in the Committee on Economic Affairs and I was waiting today for the Secretary-General's speech - perhaps the Minister will do so in his speech - to have answers. One is the answer to the question, which was raised by a New Democracy Member to the committee - Mr Amyras, I think - that for the first time we have a reduction in ENPIA. I therefore asked the Minister, because this is not the case, to table a table in which he would appear, from 2009 to 2017, what the total cost of real estate was and to see how the then government received them on a very low level of property tax and erupted them at very high levels. We have been reducing them since 2015, year after year and for 2019 we have legislated - so it is not something new that you bring, it is something prosthetic - a reduction in EMSH 260 million. You add to this a further 205 million. I shall then refer to it. The question also remains about tax declarations, in the sense that the one-day extension given is the best answer to those who were begging SYRIZA governments for extensions, etc. But they should be careful. All of these, that is, from various chambers of chambers, accountant associations, etc. They denounced SYRIZA, let's now see what's happened. And answer us sometime, how many thousands of tax statements have been left out of the system. Finally, the question remains, which, for parliamentary reasons, needs to be answered: in the report by the State General Accounting Office accompanying the bill, in the case of B.2, B.3 and B.4 there are references to loss of revenue, possible loss of revenue, lack of income, and you have not explained to us what this will be. If you want to legislate like this, respectful. I just remind you of what you were saying as Vice-Presidents or what you have been proclaiming so far. The rapporteur in his speech made a reference to'social justice'. In fact, Mr Spanaki, I would like to ask you this: the fact that fifteen thousand very rich, with a person's fortune of EUR 1 million, who will benefit from EUR 22 million, that is, about EUR 1,500 per owner - in these examples you have not mentioned - is an act of social justice? This is a deep class move you're making, and I wonder why you're doing it. And I say this in this sense: why do you not support these EUR 22 million in the middle-class, for which so much has been said as a New Democracy in the pre-election period? Why don't you strengthen the level by 60,000 euros? Also, why don't you strengthen the National Confederacy of Persons with Disabilities, which has sent a document - you all have it in your file - which calls for special arrangements in the EMA for our special categories of fellow citizens? And because many times in the past, many people in this Chamber have devoted time to discussing this issue, why don't you do these 22 million, instead of giving them to the rich and the very wealthy, direct them to regulations concerning people with disabilities? On the subject of HNPH - also another question in social justice courses - why do these 22 million do not lead them as a tax discount on the ‘Smile of the Child’, on the ‘World Ark’, on orphanages and other bodies, which for non-proprietary properties, namely for property not used for their purposes, are forced and paid for HNPH, and many times also have New Democracy MPs right here made comments to us and asked us these issues and we had to respond? Please respond very much, because you are strengthening the rich and the very rich with such a large amount of money. I could also refer to lower tiles of assets, but I get the outrageous sum of 22 million for the very rich. We're setting up a hundred and twenty doses. I asked the committee yesterday, and I did not get an answer. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, the tolerance that existed in the previous speaker. I'm not asking for anything more. So, with regard to the question submitted to the committee yesterday, will the date of 31-12-2018 be extended, that is to say the date fixed by tax obligations? Will it be extended, with another date - with or without 30 June 2019 - to include VAT obligations and other obligations, yes or no? Will you also implement what GFCM requests by means of a document that has also been sent to you, namely specific extensions to the regulation of tax debts in a hundred and twenty instalments by 31-12-2019, because the two-month period will be too small? And don't listen to any arguments of the style 'and you torture the blacks'. We have discussed these too many times. Let the political argument change a little in this Chamber. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] I'm closing up with two remarks. One is for your reference to 'the last time debt adjustment'. I understand why you're doing this. And I've had to say things like that from this Step. But be honest about what is happening. If we do not provide some sort of debt regulation, which, together with the course of the economy, can serve taxpayers, we will have to have other such arrangements. Furthermore, in this respect Parliament's Scientific Service quite rightly says that 'this article is a proclamation and suggestion to the future legislature, which, however, cannot limit the adoption of corresponding regulations'. And I close with the announcement on the issue of tax changes that will come later, so that we do not consider our vote 'in principle yes' to be in agreement with all that you have said so far or with what you are planning. Of course, we will have time in the next period, whether in the House or outside Parliament, to discuss the major changes that the tax system needs, to discuss the provisions that you will bring with which you will abolish the twenty-nine unfair taxes that SYRIZA had brought, including the end of the electronic cigarette or the end in the plastic bag. We expect you to bring in provisions that will restore the injustices you are accusing us of, after you have discovered a financial area. We also expect, at some point in the House, that this detailed debate on the organisation of tax services should take place and on how the country's tax system will be, because the abolition of the ILO in e.g.84, in conjunction with what is being discussed in another Chamber for the ultimate state, where there is the possibility, unfortunately, of placeing head of control services on individuals, creates a bleak future for these services. Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u52	We too, Mr. Comrade. I invite the President of the Greek Solution Mr. Velopoulos to Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, at some point we must find a common place and a reasonable one. To start with a rhetorical question: Is the tax unfair? We all agree it is. And what do we do so that this tax does not exist? I think we are doing nothing. Because now the New Democracy tells us that it will hurt less than the one who pays. The pain is pain. The bloodbath of the daily life of the Greek man, who can't handle it, will continue to exist. You haven't changed anything. Don't rejoice about a victory we've won. It reminds me of the victory of the Tower, not Dimas. The tower win. HISH declares virtually confiscation of property. It reminds me of Turkish rule, where the sultan put a tax because he wanted it. You have built an abortion, a monster called ENVIA, and instead of killing it to end the Greek, to be relieved, you say, "There will be, but it will whip you less". That's not reasonable, that's absurd. And if you'd like, I'd like to say it differently. Why do all citizens hate the Greek state? You know? Do you understand that? Because the Greek state is obligated to conduct a robbery, but when the state itself owes the citizen, it does not give him the same interest rate. How can the citizen not hate the state after and how can he not be illegal whenever it can evade taxation? He's wrong. He hates the state. Some people in here think the state is them. No, the state is the citizen, each one separately. You want money. You want to make, he says, 10, 20, 25 billion. You do well and you want to take it off. Why don't you hear Mr. Michalo screaming about the 8 billion-billion-year-old parade that we can get tomorrow morning? Why didn't the government do something specific about the paramilitary trade from the beginning? It is today Mr Michalos's letter to Minister Georgiadis, with whom he says that 8 billion euros is the trade. Eight billion dollars ready! So why don't you go there and go somewhere else? Why, in other words, saves and well you have to tell the Greek with the knife in the neck, 'an hundred and twenty instalments will you pay'? What if he doesn't pay what's going on? What if he can't? Unemployment large, wages small, loans a lot, debts a lot. How will he pay? If he doesn't pay, what do we do to him? We're taking his house? Will he take his public house? Is the Greek government going to initiate proceedings? Minister, I want an answer. When he does not pay the hundred and twenty instalments, why very simply did he lose his job in the first five months, eight months, ten months, twelve months, what will the government do? He's going to confiscate his house? He's going to take his home, which is a paternity home, which is from ancient times a priest? What are you gonna do? What's the end of it? You know what this reminds me of? It's either a spider or a rifle. Pick and take. If I don't, what are you gonna get? But he hasn't told you. What are we gonna do? You tell me in here. Because I think we should consider the citizen at some point. But you will tell me that the government is now preparing - I have learned from Mr Georgiadis - regulatory law - no one has spoken and, unfortunately, I say it - for decriminating on bank managers with red loans. This is a crime, Minister. There can be no rule of law and democracy that some can legislate, make decisions without being accountable to the law. You'll tell me that there's some of the previous governments. It's none of my business. A bad precedent, you change it, you delete it, you finish it, you kill it, you don't let it go. In other words, the executive of the "tada Bank", the "Velo Bank" will take any decision he wants, will not apologize anywhere, and if he does something illegal, he cannot be punished. That's impunity! Is that a democracy? Is that a Constitution? So you define the Constitution and the Rule of Law? You're talking to someone else. You're making mistakes. I hear that Eurobank gives shareholders a dividend - you listen, ladies and gentlemen, because we are well told here - by red loans. It includes thirty - six thousand loans, twenty - one thousand housing, fifteen thousand red consumers. And the shareholders will take it! Where? Since the death of the Greek. And the Greek Parliament allows it, the Ministries, the previous ones, the aftermath. And we wonder why he voted 45%, 50%, 55% of Greeks, not 100%? In the end, we will only vote to make governments, the three hundred in here. No one will believe us, because all this is not lawful, it is not reasonable, it is unreasonable. Research today, which your channel - 'SCAI' - has done, the New Democracy channel - has said that we are working half the days of the year, so that we can pay taxes, and you tell me for a hundred and twenty instalments! The other two days a year, so he can pay taxes. He'll steal them. He'll steal the I.R., Minister. The simplest. To survive, you'll steal. And when you have an unjust state, you seize it, it's for granted. Why don't you do what they do in America? Copy the American tax system. It's that simple. There is no simpler system, but every minister makes legislation, tax reform, takes out a plurality and other pluralism, so that people can do their jobs and get their way. This is the neo-Greek state, the polynomon of the modern Greek state: every minister makes ten laws. Search since 1974, and then how many tax reforms we have. Hundreds and everyone is talking about the same thing: 'We will hit the tax evasion, we will end the tax evasion', but the patient dies - the citizen - and tax evasion and tax evasion exist. So there's something you don't do well. The particular model, the American model, is the best. Let us all agree in here to copy it, in simple ways and procedures, is not so complicated. Why do we have to discover America on our own, after they've found better measures than we have to take the money? Minister, 413% increased the legacy apologies. We had a hundred and fifty thousand releases in 2019 and you tell me to pay the other hundred twenty instalments? They'll give you the houses after all. They'll spare you, because it's pain, "mattoma", to give your father's house or home to put your head underneath. I say this as simple as I can speak, because I address your hearts, your feelings. Because there are people who have feelings and hearts in here. There are. I may be an entrepreneur and be very costly, but there are people who make 300 or 400 euros a month and cannot survive and you say to him "payed 250 euros". Hey, it can't be! But it can't be. He's not a thief, he's not a crook, he can't! It's very simple, he can't pay. I'd like to go a little bit to our new Greeks. I have listened to the Minister today, ladies and gentlemen - I will not say his name, but I am sad, because I appreciate him - to say this incomprehensible: he who does not pays a ticket to the subway must feel the scum of society. I'm sorry, Minister, but if I don't have to pay? Nobody wants to be a thief, you guys. If you have and don't pay, you're a crook. He told SKAI, ladies and gentlemen. I'm trying not to say the name. Don't challenge me, look for yourself. And I appreciate him because he's a serious and honest man. How did he miss that? A scumbag who can't pay? Christ and Mary, that is, incredible things! [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President of Greek Solution is ringing.]] You have the well-known journalists, which many of them, a thousand people are rushing to join the municipalities, the ministries - everyone will have two - three - and they have raised the pension issue of 20,000 euros as a major. Communication tricks and fireworks on the back of the Greek people. Automation you want. How many are there? Why don't you say? It's five, six, seven, eight, ten? Hang them! But not playing with this game, the dirty, the communication, in agreement and the means you have, directly or indirectly, and mocking the Greek people, because they have taken two or three euros or will take 20,000 euros, which, if you look here, have the same contributions, as has been said, of millions of euros. And if the legislator was wrong, change the law, don't flag it, and you say "all thieves and crooks who get a pension - a monkey." Why, if you want to look for pensions for monkeys, look for the Bulgarians, the Romanians who allegedly live in Greece, while they don't stay here, stay in Bulgaria and get pensions in Greece or even vice versa. Also, I'm going to tell you something very simple. Today I listen to all the channels, as if there has been an order, 'Wrinkle', which we say in popular expression, 'tax evasion, tax evasion, the Greeks, the islands', etc. I've never seen such a state, self-sufficient, self-destruct, hear the stranger, the German, that Greek tax evade, are crooks, pickles. What's that thing? I don't understand that, Minister. All channels with a machete in the hand, "the restaurant escapes, tax the fisherman, evade Greek" while the reporter does not evade his boss, the big-timer. Never! He doesn't even have bond loans! Never! They are unfounded and moral or, in any case, they are angels. I say, to understand that when you disperse yourself, don't expect others to say good words about you. In closing, let me tell you something very simple that none of you said. Eight hundred thousand businesses cannot book overtax. Isn't that right, Mr. Spaniard? Eight hundred thousand businesses have long been unable to close the books. What are we talking about in here? I do not understand the logic of discussing things that do not apply. Mr. Mitsotakis is a smoker and a athlete. He decided to quit smoking in the Greeks. All right, let's quit smoking. Do you realize that the focus shops in the Netherlands that were applied or in Germany that I live have lost 35% -40% of their turnover? Do you realize that you may lead to unemployment a lot of people with this choice? Pick each shop. It only wants to be smokers, to be smokers or, if they want to be non-smokers, to be non-smokers. What kind of fascism is that, guys? The right of non-smoker to respect it. To go to a non-smoker shop. We also have social implications here. We'll get unemployment. Waitressers, bartenders, accountants from various catering stores will be fired. Do you understand what you're doing? Does the Prime Minister understand what he's doing? Has he realised that he had no dialogue with anyone and decided on his own as Caesars, "we cut the cigarette off to the Greeks?" Are we all right? A dialogue with the catering shops that give us money, taxes, VAT, were we hitching? We'll cut them off. The state will lose VAT, the IRS will lose, fine, Mitsotakis will be Prime Minister. That doesn't make sense. I apologise, but I think democratic dialogue is a dialogue. You invite them and you talk to them. They should suggest measures, too. You cannot say 'My head hurts'. I have the Otto's resolution here. I don't know if you've read it. It's Otto's smoking resolution. It's been forbidden ever since. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In closing to mention something about Mr. Mitsotakis, who is in Cyprus. I hope it's all right with him. When he comes back with the good, this "shell" of the EOZ will you introduce it? You're gonna fix it? The AOZ, which safeguards our plot, our home, our national sovereignty, will determine it? New Democratic Members tell the Prime Minister, in order to defend the country, he must have established and designated an EEZ. If you don't determine EOZ, you can't talk about oil extraction. Piat told you too. What did Piat tell you? You can't in the Aegean or Kastelorizo because you don't have an EOZ. That's what he said indirectly. Are you gonna do it, or are you gonna do it a garrison like the Macedonian? If you don't make it a garrison, bring it to the vote together. We'll vote together. It's a major fortified project by the EOZ. It's over and over! I'm hanging up with Corcona. It's been commented on. Listen, ladies and gentlemen. When I say life is life, some tell us we're extreme. If Corkonea's life and every terrorist, killer, were life, no one would ever get out of there. For preserves - I say it directly - drug dealers, pedophiles, but also for other serious crimes of terrorism, one is the sentence, life, never come out again either of Corconese or of no one. The rest is hypocrisy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u54	And we, Mr. Comrade. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Lebanese, has asked for the floor, and I call for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u55	Madam President, won't we talk? It's our turn to talk, and my colleagues are intervening...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u56	What can we do? That's the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u57	No respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u58	You know the Rules of Procedure better than I do.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Madam President. I'm sorry, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u60	Would you like to answer Mr. Velopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u61	The bill, which we are discussing today, is the first bill of the new Government of New Democracy and gives us the opportunity to draw three fundamental political conclusions. The first is that the New Democracy fully respects the Greek people. What we have said to the people in the election, we come and do after-elections, and we do so faster and better than we promised. The Greek citizen will see in 2019, in August, the cleansing of HISFIA already reduced, while our announcement was in 2020. A year earlier, that is, we will implement our promise. So the absolute respect for the citizen is that. It also highlights the great difference with Civic Anti-Civilization. We promised a few measured and finally doing more, while SYRIZA promised everything to everyone, including the abolition of ENPIA, as we all remember and eventually discovered delusional and truth. However, respect for the citizen is also seen by something else. It seems from this preparedness of our government to legislate in a record time what we need. What does that prove, ladies and gentlemen? It shows that throughout the last few months, that throughout this great pre-election period, it has not been ours, it has not been our power, it has been the victory in the elections, it has been our intention to prepare as best it can, by building a general and implementable plan, which could solve the problems that afflict our country over the last ten years. So he was seriously preparing, not only on the issue of the programme, but also on the issue of the people who were direct partners of the then President of the New Democracy in order to draw up this programme that we are coming to implement today. Proof of this seriousness and of the logic that governs Mr.Mitsotakis is the first present bill that we support here today. We knew how difficult the situation we received and thought that it should not go to a single day. And what we promised the Greek people, we do. It won't really go a day lost. The second fundamental political conclusion is that the New Democracy was, is, is and will be the party that embraces all Greeks, without discrimination, without divisions. This bill, understood by the Greek people, relieves its vast majority. All property owners will see a decrease in their clearing houses. It even shows particular sensitivity to the non-preferential, those who, in the words of SYRIZA, supported, but with his works he hit them unresolved. So it is New Democracy - and we are proving this again - the great truly popular party. It has as its main axes of policy, social justice, social cohesion and development for all. Mr Alexiadis challenged our rapporteur a moment ago to explain to him what social justice is going to mean and why the New Democracy is the party that is responsible for this principle. So social justice is, for us, proportional relief and not equalisation. Social justice is not to exclude hundreds of thousands of Greek and Greek citizens, as you are asking us to do, but to include them in these tax reliefs. Social justice, however, tell your colleague when he comes back to the Chamber, is not just one of the immediate measures taken by a government, it is also created by the revitalization of the economy. These measures, which we are bringing together, are obviously aimed at alleviating our citizens, but, secondaryly, at developing our economy. And, in any case, because all these tears we heard yesterday in the committee and yesterday in the committee that Mr Alexiades threw with all that sensitivity that he shows today, since he has entered Anti-Population, why did you not even implement them in the last few months that, as Mr Tsakalots said, this financial area has been created, while, on the contrary, you have chosen to continue your policy towards the middle class? On the contrary, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, our view, but also the view of the large majority of the Greek people, as demonstrated on 7 July, is precisely that it is the policy of SYRIZA that operates on a class mark. Even today he insists on wanting to rule out all those thousands that I told you before the relief measures. So you remain unrepentant of your policy as a government that hit the middle-class and admitted it by your ministers and here in the Greek Parliament. You have increased direct and indirect taxes, which, as you know, is precisely the proof that social justice is, rather, a theory in your mind. The result of this policy that you have pursued was an increase of 46% of the outstanding public debts, compared to 2014 that the government left at the time of the New Democracy. The growth, therefore, of private debt, which has reached the glossy sum of EUR 104 billion as net capital. Mrs Papanatsiou, whom we personally, and all of us in the New Democracy, appreciate very much for her character, but also for her creation, tried to perform an exercise to show what happened in the days of SYRIZA, in response to this argument, practically used this expression - I think - that 'the rate of growth is not declining' and made some comparisons with the figures. But he did not question these figures, and that is the reality. Up there is the private debt, so much has increased the debt of the businesses of natural persons and households in our country, and that is the result of your policy. The third political conclusion is that we have a fundamental ideological difference from the SYRIZA parade. In the great liberal party, which I have the honour of serving, we believe in the strength and ideology of development, beyond and from left and right-wing ideas. This first bill we are voting on today is a purely development bill. We believe - and we apply it in practice - that any financial area, Mr Tsakalote, which you are analyzing - and if it is greater, the credits of those who have worked, will not be taken from you or from the next government, as was provoked by the committee yesterday to say whether it will have the political responsibility of these acts in December and whether the budget - based on our own political ideology, but also on the practical exercise of the government power that the people have given us, is the surplus of this to go directly to tax relief and tax reductions, not because we have nothing to do with this history, because in order to take this economy forward - and when we say the economy of the small and medium-sized Greek business - we must reduce taxes. This was the Greek people's check on 7 July, and we follow that check. We think, at the same time, which is foreign to you, that the strengthening of medium-incomes and the provision of a real second chance to Greek entrepreneurship, to these small businesses, which, as Mr Voloudakis has said, can be an IKE from a café in a village in Chania or in Messolongs, so these businesses which are facing these difficulties and these second opportunities that we give them can bring macroeconomic consequences to investments, to the economic climate, to the labour market - for which you are very much cut off - and, of course, to all the budgets. In particular, therefore, with this draft law that we are voting on today - I will not be detailed here, because the previous speakers have said it - we are reducing ENPIA for all, and - I repeat - this seems from the statistics, we are now discussing it all these days, with particular attention to those with the smallest properties in our country. We do more accessible than the one that existed, the regulation of the hundred twenty doses for all Greeks and Greek women who currently have problems. We remove the distinction between natural and legal persons who, as we have said many times, left thousands of small and medium-sized businesses in our country outside. We reduce the interest rate from 5% to 3% and suspend seizures and forced collection measures. We stress - and this still has become a point of criticism - that this favourable regulation is the last emergency settlement to be made. I have heard the concern of Mr Scandalidis, whom I honour for his great experience, and I think that our aim and work of all of us to lift our sleeves and put our head down is to disprove his concerns and he, like his party, as well as the whole of the House, is to be happy with the performance of our government, so that we never again need to make such special arrangements in our country and in our economy. In these ways, then, that I have analysed and analysed better than I have been the special speakers, we are strengthening growth, and I say this again, because it has been discussed in the Chamber, we give social justice, not because we have some ideological prejudice in this respect, but because that is what the Greek market wants, that is what the Greek society is asking for, strict and fair rules for everyone. That is why the Greek people have voted for us - I repeat - and that is what we will do. Ladies and gentlemen, this is our attitude in a few words. This is the expression of our worldview, that the liberal economy works properly and effectively when - and I repeat this - it works for the benefit of all Greeks and all Greeks. This has asked us to ensure, as we have said, that the sovereign Greek people are assured that this is what we will do, just as we promised him. The principle is now with this bill that we shall be voting on. And because all of us, but also myself, are pleased about these creative debates that we are having and the low tons that are being followed at least in this first debate in committee and in plenary, I think we are going in the right direction. I believe that the direction that Mr Mitsotakis drew from the election - and that is where we did not find you allies - that is, the policy that unites, not the one that separates, the one that creates, composes and does not plunge, creates no breaches in society, comes and becomes a policy of all tendencies. I am very pleased that most - I say most parties will not do so - will vote in favour of this development and fair bill. And finally, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, we will not come to tell you this punctual memory that someone has told you, that we will have you drink the bitter glass to the end and come to this Chamber you will say yes to all the bills. We won't say that. We want, with our creative arguments, to convince you that our policy is in the interests of the Greeks as a whole and to go along with these votes. So welcoming your support and hope that the mistakes of the past made by your parliamentary group and your Chief will not be repeated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Michael Katrin has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to express my condolences to the loss of Manolis Skoulakis, a genuinely fragile politician, who has interrupted and honored the Greek Parliament from 1981 to 2010 and the Municipality of Chania from 2010 to 2014 and who, apparently, has been raped to meet his dear wife who recently lost. But the loss of the brilliant scientist of exquisite and technocrat, a new man of Gregory Tasoula, who a few hours ago unfortunately said goodbye, makes today particularly difficult for all of us in the Change Movement. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today contains a number of positive provisions which certainly - and I think no one disagrees in this Chamber - relieve thousands of our fellow citizens. That is why we have said from the outset that we are positive and we are voting in favour of it both at the outset and on the articles. No one in here can argue that reducing HPAI is certainly a positive measure, a relief measure. Of course, Minister, it is not clear whether what is reflected in the text will apply, that it is only for this year, or - what the Minister said yesterday - we are starting this year, cultivating the expectations that next year there will also be a further reduction in HISA. And because the people with wisdom say that the devil is hiding in the details or that what he shines is not gold, Minister, you will have to answer clearly what will be done in the opening process of the SYRIZA government, which you will immediately complete, in order to harmonise objective and commercial values that you know very well that it will eliminate any reduction of the ENPI in the people. And that is not what we say, but it has been written in approved means such as "KATHMERINA". It says clearly that an increase in ENPI will bring the integration of two thousand regions into the objective, that in 2019 and 2020 the objective should be to button on commercial values, and that, of course, if it is done by you and the agreement that the outgoing government has signed and signed, it will lead to all people's neighbourhoods in an increase of up to 50% and a reduction of 30% in precise areas. And because I know that you are going to say that this is not the case for this year - and obviously it cannot be the case for this year, because in one month's time, the cleansing of HNPH will come out - you will have to expressly answer here to the National Representation what you will do with this process that has been initiated, because this may explain your rush for reasons of stubbornness to be recorded in political history that you have now reduced HNPH, while six months from now, with the increase in the objective itself, the reduction of HNPH will evaporate. I put the relevant article in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, in order not to blame us for being miserable and seeing them all bad and black, we must say that the draft law contains several positive measures, such as making companies subject to the 100 twenty-dollar system - a chronic request from the trading world in which, I think, the majority of the parties agree and advocate - that the reduction in the amount of the monthly paid-up - because, yes, ladies and gentlemen, all of us are of great value, because we all know our fellow citizens who spend 10 euros and do not want to underestimate this and it is a positive measure - the reduction of the interest rate, the lifting of seizures and forced execution measures. As our rapporteur has already said, there is a need to make some corrective moves, such as adjusting the rate for intermediate-value dwellings, reducing HPAI in the buildings that are maintained and bioliquid. And, of course, there is no provision for a definitive abolition of the tax on agricultural parcels which has been voted on by the previous government, but has been temporarily suspended and this is being extended. However, we are asking - and you must also give a clear answer to this - whether you intend to relieve the parcels of this supplementary tax. No provision is made for the possibility of regulating the consequent taxpayers. No consistency reward, no discount. And at some point it should also be at the National Representation, but also at the decision-making centres, that there should be a serious discussion about the 100% advance payment of tax which should be reduced for the consistent taxpayers and that it should be an incentive, because you know very well that it has no financial impact. I told the committee and yesterday that you should take into account the statement from the ESDC with some very interesting remarks, because I also know the sensitivity you have for people with disabilities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There are several grey points in the General Accounting Report that speaks of a lack of revenue of EUR 205 million, it costs this measure. Two other sources of lack of revenue that the Minister itself subscribes to, and the report itself expressly and categorically speaks of a delay in the collection of revenues, which is not agreed by the Minister, Mr Stagiras, who does not see, but is not able to clearly identify, that there will be a medium-term increase in revenue in the medium to long term, which the General Accounting Report does not see. So we're talking black holes? And I say that because a few months ago, Mr. Tsipras pre-electioned a package of benefits. And then you talked very easily about a black hole. Or are you going to a payment stop, Mr. Besiropoulos, the known recipe that has practically dried up the market? I come to the last possibility of regulating an exceptional nature, which you say emphatically and forcefully about the debts that have been established up to 31/12-2018. It is understandable that the government's anguish ahead of us and the imminent assessment at the end of the week will show that it is hard and impeccable to finance and will not give another opportunity. Is it suddenly from 8 July or from 2019, Minister, that the economic situation in the country has been normalised and that has happened so easily for both businesses and for natural persons? Are companies in addition to the tax debts that are regulated also due to the insurance funds? Did the Minister sing yesterday, but do we expect him to confirm it today and soon to print it, or do business debts not have bank lending in red loans? I mean, I think we should be a little more careful, because the real economy has structural problems, and unfortunately, the regulation of the hundred and twenty instalments comes as a manna from heaven for the vast majority of professionals, indicative of the very difficult situation of the economy. So positive, but fragmented, the government's initiative. We, Minister, expect with interest your initiatives on too many axes of tax policy. You have announced, on 3 June, a large number of measures. We in every bill will bring you the package of measures that you have announced, we will remind you and we will present it to you to see the consistency between speech and projects, because I fear that many of them will be reviewed. We, therefore, because we have already tabled a proposal for a law, which I have tabled for the Minutes, since November 2018, which Mr Voutsis unfortunately did not consider appropriate to discuss during the previous parliamentary term, are reintroducing. We have a series of measures that we consider to be in the right direction and relieve the business world, but also natural persons. In summary, I will mention one: Reduction of the corporate tax rate from 29% to 20%. Three-year income tax and pension contributions for young people starting business. Repeal of the special solidarity contribution to natural persons. Repeal, Minister, of the end of trade. Establish a specific undisclosed commercial account of professionals and undertakings. Also, facilitating the integration of small and medium-sized enterprises into the extra-judicial mechanism, which is very important for companies that have unfortunately ceased their activities. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, tax policy is certainly not being offered to create impressions that the new government, when taking up its duties, will alleviate citizens, in a post-election ring, which makes sense, but does not often give the necessary solutions and answers. There is a need for tax policy that creates conditions of stability and credibility. Despite our objections, we are voting in favour of the provisions of this bill, as we did not hesitate to do in such initiatives that were in the same direction and in the government of SYRIZA, because these are initiatives that relieve citizens and why we in the Change Movement at the heart of our attention were, are and will be the non-preferential ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u64	We too, Mr. Comrade. The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution Mr Mylonakis has the floor now. To prepare Mr. Marinos from the Communist Party of Greece. Here you go, Mr. Mylonakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u65	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the impression that the delusions of 2015 by Mr Tsipras have begun and are now being transferred towards the New Democracy. We have come here today to vote on a mini-tax bill. Because, as the Minister said yesterday and today, the State Secretary, in September, will have a full tax bill, in which we will say and analyse all of what the Greek people say and want. So we come to see what is going on with SYRIZA, who says to the New Democracy "I gave you a very good economy". The New Democracy comes in and says "it will reduce ENVY about 22% by weight and 10% by the time". It does not, however, say anything about the issue, ladies and gentlemen. What's the matter? The issue is the ENPIA, which started with an EMCDDA, if you remember, in 2011 by order of lenders. In 2013, the government of Samaras made him ENPIA, where the major property tax came in. And it remained this tax until 2015. In 2015 SYRIZA said "I will abolish him by a law" and the Prime Minister now, Mr Mitsotakis, said "I will decrease". Yes, sir. Will this law finally be abolished? Just before the President of the Greek Solution, Kyriakos Velopoulos told you that gentlemen of the New Democracy and of PASOK, you created a monster. So the monster has to kill this. If we don't kill the monster, we kill the property. So, what do you want to tell us? That the ENPI collected 2.6 billion plus the additional tax of 3.2 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u66	Attestation 3.2 and collection 2.6.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u67	That's right. Confirmed. And I ask now: how many millions do you lighten the Greek taxpayer? The General Accounting Office says 205 plus 260, recorded from its side by the previous Law, 4611/19. Very good. And we ask now: will this tax continue? It will continue. In fact, yesterday the Minister, Mr. Undersecretary, told us that the most likely thing is to be transferred to the municipalities, to the municipalities as well. Yes, sir. So this monster, which was born in 2011 and 2013, is not, in order to understand it, a Greek citizen, that is, not to give him the cheese and does not see the light, to be abolished. One is that. Two. First of all, we have said so, we have made it clear in the interests of the citizen. This unfair tax must be abolished completely. If I ask one of the Members present, I am sure we will agree that HISPIA is an unfair tax. It's over and out. Let's see what this tax offers the Greek citizen. How will it ease him? He'll cut a place off. We agree that we will have a reduction in all Greek taxpayers who have a residence. Now look, when one has a house of seventy square meters, eighty square meters in the Peristeri. Let's also take to the area of Eastern Attica that I'm elected to in Menidi and has a home from his father in the village. Look, now, Mr. Secretary, we're coming to the supplementary tax. After paying for each real estate tax, we now come to accumulate taxes, unite them and pay taxes again. Isn't that unfair? I don't know. I think we all think it's unfair. Another issue that we need to see in HISBIA again. These are suggestions to see if we can fix something. What about unpaid dwellings, non-electrical dwellings? We need to see that, too. They told me colleagues, former and now military, who are serving on the islands, Evros, etc. and have a home, for example, in Athens, which they cannot rent. Watch what's going on. They're forced not to pay the power. They shut it down so they don't pay. What will happen now, will they continue to pay for these non-electrical dwellings, the unpaid dwellings? That's what I think we need to see. Another issue is the rise of objective values. A number of colleagues have said so before. I believe that by the end of 2019, at the beginning of 2020, objective values will have absorbed the reduction, that is, the profit of each of us, because we are all citizens, we are all paying. This is an issue that we need to see, because with the rise of objective values and their equation with trade, this reduction will also be gone. It's going to be a equal boat, equal to things. Now let's see what happens with the hundred and twenty doses. First of all, we must say, in order to clarify something, because many will believe, by speaking to Mylonakis, that it does not agree with the reduction of taxes, in any case, on citizens. Of course, every reduction in taxes is welcome, especially from the Greek Solution, which has said from the outset that it is following a programme for society, a programme to bring the citizens back where they were before the entry of the memoranda, before the entry of the lenders into our lives in 2010. Because that's all, and we have to tell the world, it's creditors' orders. And the lenders continue to give orders to every government, regardless of whether each government - and SYRIZA lately and New Democracy now - tells us that the economy came out of the memoranda. The economy has not come out of the memos. And you know that very well. We'll be on a permanent memorial by 2060. Come on, let's see what's going on with the hundred and twenty doses. And that, of course, is in the right direction - we say it again. But be careful here. This is the third time, Minister, this. One time it was with n.4321, the law of Ms. Valvaani, who failed. Why did not many fail to enter the arrangement or enter into the arrangement and then two, three months later, did they stop paying? We come to Law 4611/2019 and the modification you bring. Your flag - and you did well that you brought it in this way, because of course it had to be done right from the start - that the commitments for public measures, namely, the 2014 Act, should be suspended. We are talking about the commitments of money and banks and assets so that everyone can pay and get into regulation. Because if you've got the account committed to him, how's he gonna get in the arrangement? So we come to a hundred twenty doses. The main arrangements are 12 instalments. We said about twenty-four doses and thirty-six doses definitely. For twenty-four doses, however, all arrangements must be made. The new settings of a hundred twenty-dollars - I wish we could go out liars - and they won't pull. Why won't they pull? Because the Greek's back from overtax has been raised. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. He gets beaten all the time, ungrateful, from everywhere. He's got to pay a settlement for the insurance funds. We come with a hundred and twenty doses for taxation. We're coming with the PPC arrangement. We have the bank. We always pay, pay, pay. So one who gets 1000 euros a month in what arrangement to get in? You want him to set up the insurance fund? He's going to set up the bank? You want him to set up so he doesn't lose the house? To get to the IRS, PPC, that he can't pay? So it's gonna make 1,000 euros, and I've already said 1,500 euros. In the end, it'll open a hole and fall in. It's laughing at these. These things can't be done. I'm sure something should be done at a hundred and twenty doses. Not if someone can't pay the two instalments, we can take his head off, we can take his house. This thing can't be done. So that's what the government has to do with it and go into four instalments, etc. He's the one who can't pay, not pay. This bill, despite the important flaws and objections we have put forward, will be voting for it because it softens even little the pain of the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that under the decision of the President of Parliament of 30 July 2019 under Rule 49 A of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure for the IH's Parliamentary Period, the Committee on Public Enterprises, Public Procurement and Social Security. The relevant decision has been posted to the 'Parliamentary Transparency' and is recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u69	Mr Georgios Marinos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the debate in the parliamentary committee yesterday on the ENPI and the hundred and twenty-two instalments became a methodical effort to mislead the people. And this continues today with the participation of the Government of New Democracy, SYRIZA and the Change Movement. Why are we talking about deception? First, the ENPIA didn't fall out of the sky, but it has its own story. The PASOK government in 2011 opened the road with the engraving through PPC, with the so-called "extreme special ending of electrified structured spaces". This was completed by the New Democracy government in 2013, the SYRIZA government shielded him and continues with him now New Democracy. HNVIA was imposed as a chosen hard tax on a very unfair tax system through which billions of euros are raised by the people of labor to serve the bloody surpluses and finance the big capital. The working class, the self-employed, the pensioners, the well-known underages pay 95% of taxes. Secondly, HNVIA has a significant share in the bankruptcy of hundreds of thousands of popular households, who lose about EUR 2,500,000 per year. In the debate in the House too, a concerted effort is being made to ensure that people's thoughts are embedded in the preservation and permanentization by being transferred to the municipalities of this unfair hard tax. The JRC is also interested in the small relief of the people's households and is placed with "residents" in the bill, because it requires the abolition of the HNVIA for the working people's families, claiming an increase in the taxation of profits and the property of the great capital. The JRC requires the abolition of the ENPI and other tax measures. These include the amendments tabled by the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, expressing the demands of hundreds of thousands of workers, self-employed and retired. We do not agree to pay a folk family for the house that spit blood on it and to support it, and in many cases it still owes it. What should the employee, the pensioner, the small farmer and the self-employed be first paid? The current ENPI and the raisin from income tax, Minister, which come these days, the high indirect taxes or the instalments and interest to pay off, by paying the broken anti-population policy? Thirdly, we have heard a great deal about sustainable development for all, both for exploited and exploited. We have heard positions aimed at covering sharp social class inequalities, the characteristic of capitalist barbarism. These approaches, however, are out of reality. As unrealistic are the social justice mentioned just now by the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. The act speaks. Industrial workers are chasing the cut, which they even pay with their lives. They're trying to take them for a walk. In addition, anti-grass tax policy is robbing them. Their industrialists, however, don't know what they've got. They enjoy tax exemptions, reduced rates of profit tax. The shipowners are narrowing under the boat and the tax reaps them, while the shipowners are treasured and enjoy fifty-five and more tax exemptions. They are not taxed either on their profits or on their assets, which exceed 100,000,000,000 dollars. Tourism workers, foodstuffs do not raise their heads and suffer under low wages and bad working conditions. They're tortured by tax rafts. And the big landlords or the big landlords of restaurants are fascinating for their profits and enjoying tax exemptions and funding. These apply to each sector. Workers' struggle for low-wage survival and tax policy rock on their heads. Hunger pensions and pensioners to raise euros - euros to pay tax and all together to meet PPC's high tariffs or bad commercialised health. The Communist Party of Greece will insist on revealing the classic nature of the policy of the Government of New Democracy and other urban parties - managers of the exploitation system, so that the misfortune of our people does not pass and the need to overthrow this terrible situation becomes aware. It will insist on the effort to raise high, very high the demandingness of the workers and their claiming capacity to strengthen the struggle for real relief, to recover the great losses and to satisfy the popular needs. Finally, we want to note that it is right to give rise to the sense of the law of our people and youth that the judicial decision that has reduced the sentence of the cold killer, the fifteen-year-old Alexander Gregopoulou, Corconea, who was sentenced first to life sentence. We consider this unacceptable and want to be denounced by this step too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u71	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Gregoriadis from Mera25 has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u72	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I will make a few comments on the amendment relating to the work of the Hellenic Republic, which just a few minutes ago reached our hands and which relates to increasing the level of buildings in this investment. The only argument you have on the part of the government to defend this amendment, which, of course, is completely irrelevant to the bill we are discussing at the moment, is - I quote - 'that it does not in any way worsen the housing environment of the neighbouring buildings and residential areas, because it refers to heights of buildings and facilities allowed within the area or area concerned'. In short, "false" beautifully in the urban pathways of decades that scandalously allowed very high buildings in pieces of the Greek beach road and municipality, you now do, as you customize, even a huge, brave gift to Mr. Latsis, that is, about what all the Memorandum governments always do with Mr. Latsis. That's weird. Perhaps some of you, ladies and gentlemen, know that throughout the campaign we have linked the potential and immediate return of the New Democracy to power with defence, by promoting the re-engineering of the most parasitic oligarchy in our country. This starts taking flesh and bones apparently from this moment. And so that the people who listen to us - for that is why we are here, to speak and to inform the people who are listening to us - what "gifts to Mr. Latsis" means, in time every time there is one of these parasitic oligars, we will call him by his name here, taking our responsibility and undoing it in front of the Greek people. So everyone who hears what this gift means to Mr Latsis, let us, for example, take a previous gift from a previous government, a memorandum and it - what a coincidence - to Mr Latsis. It's the little gift in relation to Mall. Then Mr. Latsis, as he used to do, showed up really making the most jealous proposal for Mall, that is, he wanted the least and earned the rightly, someone would say. That's it. So he testified the best offer, limiting - supposedly - his profits. But then the government and once the tender had been concluded, it appeared and renegotiated the offer for Mall, changing the terms - o of the miracle - for the benefit of Mr Latsis himself. This, of course, is not just that it is scandalously favouring Mr Latsis whenever it is done, but it is also unjustly wrong for all the people who had taken part in any of these competitions. Also - to make it quite clear, because it is the most important one - as you all understand it, this amendment to the bill that we are discussing today, but completely irrelevant to what we, the Merra25, have tabled yesterday, on the advance of 100% of the tax. The conclusions are yours. It's obvious what's relevant and what's irrelevant. We do the white black thing very easily in the House. Now I'm learning that and I'm very worried. I am continuing: ladies and gentlemen, the small taste of the tax bill that we are getting today is extremely worrying about what awaits us as a people after Parliament's holidays, when its main volume of voting comes. As you all know, but most of you unfortunately continue to do that you do not know, the Greek economy after ten consecutive years of monuments is a small "Titian" that has fallen on a huge iceberg. This iceberg is called Troika and is probably larger than Antarctica. The provision for the reductions that you now introduce to HNVO - which, by the way, simulate the taxation of a property owner at an objective value of EUR 80,001 with another owner who has an objective value of EUR 999,000 - understand how it will be intended to help the poor entrants. In addition, the - in many introductory words - 'promotion', since it facilitates much more those who have not at the hundred and twenty doses, only as an attempt to close the verbs of our 'Titanian' with a chirot can be taken into account. We understand that you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, understand this very well and of course understand that you cannot do anything better, since those who actually make decisions on the crucial economic issues simply do not allow you to do so. From the government's programming statements, we always warn you that you are very badly programmed without accounting for the hotel owner. You, however, continue to pretend to be free to make your own political decisions about our economy. And here it is with them and with them what a comic-training level of exposure you are getting at some point right now. All the shattered generous tax relief you have put on the vote for citizens - and most likely that is why you have the power today, for that very class - not with me, but with the General Accounting Office of the State, it is just 205 poor million euros. The remaining 250 were a polite sponsorship of SYRIZA to debt-payers and are already enrolled in the 2019 budget by the previous government. For anyone who does not understand yet, this terrible tax relief - which will change everything in the economy and bring great investment - is only 0.11% of GDP, our Gross National Product. Obviously, something less than coal the treasure. At the same time, in the catastrophic room of our debt-purpose, in case you haven't taken it yet, a huge "elephant", called "100% tax advance, is now slimming". I'm sorry, what neoliberal party are you who don't understand the obvious about every capitalist, that without its abolition, we're just all mocking society together? We have just tabled an amendment to abolish it yesterday. You rejected it as irrelevant, although you are well aware that it is absolutely relevant - at least do not deny it to me - absolutely more than the amendment on the investment of the Greek. You simply want, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, to avoid even the debate on the amendment that we tabled, as this debate takes place, on the one hand, the absolute poverty of your arguments will arise and, on the other hand, your hospital effort to bring up our country with a tick. Ladies and gentlemen, without any obsessed attitude as Mera25, we will systematically return to the same conclusion and always have the same painful obligation to remind you. Our country has lost most of its national sovereignty for ten years and as long as its governments continue not to share their guilty secrets - remember, I imagine, their guilty secret - with our innocent people - our innocent people, I fear you have forgotten him - will never gain the popular support that, unfortunately, is necessary to try if not the rupture - we have ceased to hope so - at least the invocation of a rupture. Why don't you dare invoke that you might come to a break? In other words - and I conclude - the deception of our fellow citizens that you are supposedly negotiating with the troika for a better future has been completely revealed by the first quarter of the debate on the first bill you bring to Parliament for vote. Whether this bill is passed or not passed, for our winter people, it will not change anything and if the bills passed by the Greek Parliament do not change the life of Greek citizens, then some people here work "little gamble", unfortunately continuing the theatre performances of the insane theatre at the theatre of our democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Hetas has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I go to the bill, as far as the amendment to the Greek investment amendment, which we took just now, I have to say this as a Greek solution: once the legislation is complied with, we are only opposed to the construction of the casino. It is an issue that we have developed and analysed and we will be opposed to. We do not consider the gambling and bleeding of the Greek people to be an investment. In a question from our President, Mr. Velopoulos, Mr.Adoni Georgiadis, Mr. Georgiadis replied that they would not be allowed to play at the casino of Greeks. If he then assures us that he will legislate, then we will have absolutely no objection. This is a small comment on the amendment on investment in Greek, which came to us a little while ago, because I think it is important that all others be aware. Gentlemen of the government, since you took over, you have made your own flag the great facilities for debtors in taxes and reductions in HISPIA. You're telling us you want to lighten the middle class. Obviously you're ignored, of course, what the middle class is. So to define here today in this Chamber what we mean in the middle class and who we belong, because I put myself in the middle class. They're probably ignoring it to your executives. I would remind you that, according to a statement by Mrs Bakoyannis on 28 June 2019 on state television, in the middle class those who have an income of EUR 20,000 to EUR 70,000 belong. That's what Mrs. Bakoyannis said. I'll give it to you in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Prime Minister in his programme statements said that medium-term social strata - listen - have an average real estate of 80,000 euros up to 1 million euros. I don't belong in this middle class, though. I think I am in another middle class and not in this middle class, which has up to EUR 80,000 and up to EUR 1 million. The figures of the Independent Public Revenue Authority disprove them both. 92% of Greeks have an income of up to 30,000 euros and up to 100,000 euros of real estate has 80% of Greeks. So the evidence is different. So the real victims of ENVY and the real middle-class need relief and not those who have real estate as much as EUR 1 million. What if someone owns 800,000, 700,000 or even 600,000 euros, is it a middle class? For my own data at least and I think of the Greeks, who are following us at the moment, this middle class is not meant. We called it before the elections. We are trying to be in this Chamber, as many people as we can, in order to listen to all our colleagues, all the parties and all the parties. We have no tape to say 'no to everything', 'yes to everything'. We have a point of view. We are not a party of zero - we have said so many times - nor have we come here to only hold a sterile opposition. Oh, no. We have proposals that we are tabling. We will say 'yes' to many, we will say 'no' to others and so we will go in the next - first - God - at least four years. We want to build and not degrade. That's our target. Clearly, we will support all measures that are in a direction of relief of the middle class, which will make Greeks economically easier. We need to help the Greek households at all costs. I am going to give a small parentheses for the hundred and twenty instalments, because we believe - and we say so - that it is in the right direction. However, it does not include companies that have a turnover of more than EUR 2 million. And we call them as proposals, as a debate. More than 2 million euros, do you include them?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u75	The criterion is to have a basic debt of EUR 1 million. Those with a basic debt of more than EUR 1 million are excluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u76	It includes some 20 billion of this bill. So much you expect to collect from the 104 that are out there open. Are you going to tell us the rest 84 what's going to happen? And what this "last chance" will say, this blackmailing that "those who are getting ahead now, the door closes, does not open for anyone else". Of course, we have been listening to this for thirty years and every time the same amendment comes back. I'm going back to HISBIA a little. No matter how much reduction you do, you don't do thanks to us to the Greek people. As long as we pay EVIA, we pay rent for our home. It's clear. We've got a little house and we're paying HISPIA. It's like paying rent for our house. This tax should be abolished as soon as possible. The arrangements for the ENPI are moving yes in a positive direction, but it would be nice to hear our proposals. Take care of them because they are immediately effective and will correct the bad texts and the 'grey' zones. There were six specific proposals. Mr. Villards mentioned it earlier. I won't get tired any longer. I referred to gray zones. Tell us whether the reduced collection of HPAI by the municipalities, such as a reduction in the funds of the municipalities, an increase in municipal fees, privatization of services, a reduction in staff. I'm asking if he's hiding something. We want to be clear and take account of our comments. In conclusion, I would like to say that, following today and yesterday and in the previous years, the colleagues of the New Democracy and SYRIZA for who more or less reduced ENPIA reminds me of me - at least - 'a little pregnant'. There's not a little pregnant. It's either you or you're not. And right now, the Greek people, the Greeks, are unfortunately, as we are also hostages in our homes because of HISFIA. Improve the gaps in the bill. Start preparing the ground for the abolition of this unconstitutional and unacceptable law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Loverdos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, after the European elections, the country is at a good but complex economic situation. The cost of borrowing the ten-year bond is less than 2%. The stock market is on a continuous upward path. The head of the European Central Bank presides for interest rates reduction and a new quantitative relaxation programme. The Governor of the Bank of Greece is aware that in June we had a record of six years in the deposits. And the question that is being asked is whether we will benefit from this positive economic juncture or whether we will lose a train again. The political climate is favourable. One cannot say that it prevents economic developments and, as many people have said in my speech in the programming declarations, it seems for a moment that the political climate - the most positive political climate in relation to the last few years at least - is a good channel to have growth and growth of the economy. For the time being, as far as Parliament is concerned, and what we as members of the legislature have as an obligation is to assess whether this positive juncture is being exploited or whether it is not being exploited. This is not the case either by wishing or by our good or bad mood. A sample unique to our own assessments as members of the legislature are the draft laws that incorporate government policies. So far, ladies and gentlemen, we have two draft laws to assess. One, which is the current mini-legislative bill, is in a positive direction, and the other, which relates to the final state, the allegedly, the ultimate state, is a very negative sign of a parliamentary initiative on the part of the government and the majority of Parliament, as we will have the opportunity to analyse at the next plenary sittings and as our colleagues in the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice have already evaluated. So we have two readings. A positive one and a negative one. It can therefore be said that we do not start so well. My assessment is that we don't start well. Because today's mini-legislative - I say again - is moving in a positive direction, but the state that has to do with the major problem of the Greek economy, which is economic growth and growth, is a feeder of bureaucracy, as we will have the opportunity to analyse, again, at the next meetings. Mr Scandalidis said positively and yesterday in the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs and, today, in terms of HNPH and its forecasts and in terms of the hundred and twenty instalments for tax due. Of course he added our own remarks as a political party. From these remarks I would also like to stress, in my own speech, the need to limit the 100% tax advance - I said this in plenary - for the next financial year, which is for a business or for a free trader, a murderous choice made by SYRIZA, to reach 100%. There has been no hint after the elections on this top change to take place. In addition, all members of the National Representation have been sent to requests from the ESDC, i.e. disabled people, on the basis of which they request special regulation with regard to the ENPI. And here we have no responses from the government. We have also asked the Standing Committee on Finance the question, why does this draft law not extend its positive arrangements, and in the case of the hundred and twenty instalments for debts from insurance contributions? Look, is it very reasonable for someone who listens to us to say "do you abide by the financial space available when it comes to the government's ENPI regulation or the hundred and twenty-five instalments of taxes due and you also make additional proposals?" How does this position stand, which has two sides opposite to each other? Me and us as a Change Movement, we also heard the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance in the debate on the government's planning statements, but we heard the Minister of Finance yesterday in the Committee on Economic Affairs. The budgetary debate on the part of the House was opened, from the government's side, and nothing was given. So we're free. Yesterday the Minister to the members of the Standing Committee asked: is there any financial area or is there not? That is right, only to ask him, not to us, because, if there is a financial area, then we too are free to propose the implementation of the entire programme. Because what we say today is positive belongs to our programme. Our two previous colleagues spoke - and Mr Scandalidis and Mr Katrinis - so I do not want to add any more words on this. But you owe an answer. Is there a financial area or does it not exist? As the Minister of Finance, Mr Stagiras, mentioned only the optimistic view of the economy, and when he had to land in something special, he told us that the market was positive - I agree with that - to reduce VAT in the field of businesses in the tourism sector to 13%. And what table do we distribute? The one that estimated the hiding and non-returning of VAT at the time. I'm not questioning it. They may generally confirm this, but the debate on budgetary space is opened by the opposition and the government, and there are no clarifications. Undersecretary and Government Representative Mr. Petsas made reference to possible sources of revenue. For example, he mentioned the returns from the bonds, from the European Central Bank and the central banks of the Member States of the euro area to 1.600,000, if my recent memory is cheating on me. The question here is that this economic size is not related to public revenues for the current year 2019- refers to 2020- and does not relate to public revenues as such. This goes for the repayment of the debt. That is why the government must negotiate, but it has cut us from the programming declarations that by 2021 the primary surplus is not negotiated. So you have to tell us what's being negotiated. Neither have you told us that, nor has Mr Stagioras told us. We are therefore extremely concerned and have the power, after you leave it all unclear and by reading in the newspapers the interviews of government officials - which give two or three days a day - and the approaches taken by the report, to see that many things can be done. This is the result of blatant governmental statements, so what should counterpopulation do after you leave them all unclear? To record its own supplementary proposals. What do you think? You are talking about 30-20-10 escalating reduction of HISPIA. We say that you should add one more scale to this view of the value of real estate. We also say to listen to what disabled people tell you. We are also saying to reduce HNVO to 50% for those buildings that have a positive ecological balance, as well as for those traditional buildings which have been found to have been kept. We have no financial space limitation from your own government record to make these reports, so we are free to make these additions that we consider necessary with regard to the ENPIA. I'm closing in the hundred and twenty instalments. The question we have addressed to the government is why the present regulation on the hundred and twenty instalments of tax due does not concern the insurance funds. Because there, yes, the hundred and twenty doses introduced by the SYRIZA government were hundred and twenty doses and were not falsified, but there were differences. There's a difference in the interest rate. That's where he stays at 5%. There is a difference in the possibility of discounting. There is no possibility of discounting. And there's a difference in relation to the irresponsible. There's no such thing as the irresponsible. Why not align yourself in the area of insurance contributions, just as you did with tax debt regulations? You have to. But we are just trying to have a debate on this, ladies and gentlemen, from now on, we are going to be overwhelming about reality, a real fact. I'm a lawyer, an active lawyer. I know from my colleagues that there is a legal inability to identify the debt of lawyers who owe contributions, up to 70%. In other words, the legal fund cannot tell them exactly how much they owe them. In CSAH, in health care, this inability to determine is 80%. At TSMEDE, engineers at 85%, and OAU, freelance professionals, reach 65%, the old TEBE, the self-secured. This is a situation that has surrendered to you. But it's in your hands. Today, I hear Mr Brutsi saying that, beyond September, there will be no room for regulating these contributions, with funds giving no answer to the person insured for what he owes, so that he cannot get into the arrangements. What's he gonna do about what he received from SYRIZA? That's the situation today. Saying "September and finally" what solution is this when all those who have a problem at the rate I mentioned cannot regulate their debts? And even if you're going to consult with the data that EKA gives you and with this data you go to make the adjustment, the fund tells you: "There's no given thing that you're bringing me. Other what the OCLAF states say and what you really owe, which we cannot count." And here's a problem. Thirdly, an example of a complaint from an insured person: since they cannot regulate the old ones because they cannot calculate what he owes, he pays his current debts. But the money it gives does not cover current debts. They go into the hole of their own debt and go back. So he can't get tax information. This situation will be handled by Mr. Brutsi. What's going on and it says "September and end"? With what data in his hands, he says that? It found the giant pensions of 25 thousand euros, which the 'prepared' previous government did not take care to regulate. However, this does not justify his statement today if I have heard it well - I think I have heard it well - that 'September and finally'. For the insurance funds, therefore, no intervention today. From the Minister's words, September is the end month. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is the situation in the funds that I have mentioned. In closing, we support the draft law. That is what our previous speakers have said. However, I listen with great distrust, Mr Besiropoulos, and you say that this is the last regulation. Others have said that. I said that in 2010, too. It is good to say this to show a determination, but history shows that the ministers who have said this have been disproved. Instead of saying this, perhaps you should have foreseen a positive measure for those who fulfil their tax obligations, which is what we have in our programme, which you have promised, but you have forgotten.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u79	We'll bring...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u80	'Will'. Here, now that you regulate the hundreds of twenty instalments for tax debt, you have not included this and we consider it particularly negative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Logiadis has the floor since Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u82	Madam President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will speak as an economist, as an entrepreneur, as an investor. I'm a hotelier in the tourist sector in Crete. The way we're talking about the ENPIA today reminds me of a puzzle image with a thousand pieces of which we're catching a piece, the ENPIA. It's like a cherry on a big cake that's toxic and too poisonous. We're picking up a piece of the jigsaw puzzle, and we're not looking or we don't want to look at the whole picture. And what's that big picture of the puzzle? It is a picture of fear, it is a picture of the bleeding of the Greek citizen, his destruction and his slavery, locked in a debt prison. Taxation is both an international and domestic issue. At international level we have the tax havens, which we have mentioned before, and within the European Union we have different tax rates that create huge imbalances. As an entrepreneur in the tourism sector, I could have my company's head office in Luxembourg, where the tax rates are much lower than in Greece. I haven't. I have my seat in Crete and I'm proud of it. I could have my seat in Delaware, a paradise, the Cayman Islands, or somewhere else. I don't do that. These are all major problems that we have to deal with. For us, taxation is the biggest problem for households, professionals and businesses. I would like to mention two points which I consider to be very important: firstly, the lack of a stable fiscal framework which allows for both business and household planning and, secondly, the actual mismanagement of the control mechanisms. We are constantly seeing new laws and a continuous change in tax legislation. Writing leading to corruption, laws with retroactive power and new unforeseen burdens on households and businesses are a picture of uncertainty affecting both consumption and investment. We realise, of course, that as long as our economy is committed to achieving annual superfluous primary surpluses that have been imposed on us, the fiscal framework will remain flexible, deliberately unstable, that is to say, so that the infamous 'cuters' can be activated when the objective is removed. Auditing mechanisms: The first thing you do, gentlemen of the government, is to abolish de facto the ILO, by degrading it from autonomous service to an office essentially a Directorate-General. This move creates unfair competition in favour of non-homogenous ones. Basically with this movement, you close your eye on the tax-gatherers, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, 3.5% primary surplus means bleeding the private sector, meaning austerity, it means overtaxation. Government and Civic Opposition are committed to these goals. Today you are bringing some early relief measures, as you move. These are the very least that the lenders have allowed you, we'll fill in. We, as a PARTA25, tabled an amendment yesterday trying to make this draft law genuinely therapeutic. We have put the 100% tax advance at the centre, proposing that it be abolished in two years' time and, of course, rejected. As far as ENPI is concerned, I ask: does it have to be reduced? Of course it must be reduced. The question, however, is who should be excluded and who should be taxed more. In my business, I pay 10 thousand euros, it's gonna be 9 thousand. And what happened? That doesn't help me with anything. Others are the problems. The government in its regulations basically calls the owners of real estate assets between 400 thousand and 1 million, making them a gift of some thousands of euros, while the relief for the low income layers, the owners of small real estate, is about 30, 50, 100 euros. It is some crumbs and ash in the eyes of the overwhelming majority of citizens, disorientating from the main theme, decent living. We also tabled an amendment to the ENPIA aimed at social justice. Houses of up to EUR 70 000 are exempted from HNVO, from EUR 70 000 to EUR 500 000, a 25% reduction, no change in property between EUR 500 000 and EUR 1 million, and an increase of 10% for property. This is tax justice and a fair burden-sharing. I call on my fellow Members to accept this amendment. Finally, as far as the hundred and twenty instalments are concerned, the question is how and why this due periodic debt is produced, because it is growing over time, so that we can get to the need for settlements, instalments, etc. The regulation is positive, but it manages the consequences of a much greater problem. Ladies and gentlemen, we must at long last tackle the source of our budgetary problems, debt and exorbitant surpluses, and stop dismantling in order to cure aspirin cancer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr Euklidis Tsakalotos has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to begin by congratulating the financial staff of SYRIZA, because, apparently, you will see why I say 'from what looks like' - we have convinced the Governor of the Bank of Greece in the past twenty days that, at the end of the year, we will not have a surplus of 2.9%, but we will have 3.5% and these measures taken. I say 'it seems' because, before the European elections for one month and before the national elections, it was almost every day telling us about the problem we have and how much money the SYRIZA government spends there and we will have a problem, now I have not heard him put for the government. Of course, you will tell me that the Bank of Greece is an independent authority. Such independence we haven't seen since the great vezier Iznogud wanted to be a Caliph in the position of Caliph! We are now on the basis of the bill. Two or three issues have been raised which we need to discuss a little more. We agree that since you add 205 million to our own measures, it is obvious that you are helping another larger part of the population. We are pleased to help those who are over 60,000 euros, over 100,000 euros, over 150,000 euros, marginal and over 350,000 euros. We can accept that with such property you can help them with 200 million. This is where the middle-class thing comes in. As far as we are concerned, and I think of the entire Greek people, the property of more than EUR 500,000 and more than EUR 1 million is not middle class, with whatever view one might think of things. You're going to tell me 20 million euros, you're spending more than EUR 1 million on property, but you're spending EUR 50 million on property of more than EUR 500,000, so roughly EUR 70 to EUR 80 million. Is that too much? How does an economist answer, big or not big? There is only one way in economic theory in the first class of microeconomics in the universities: the cost of opportunity. What could you do instead of spending it to help these social groups with over 500,000 euros and over a million euros? I have two proposals and we have put one proposal down to HISPIA again with a different distribution. So you could pay nothing for the properties of over 500,000 euros, reduce it to 10% to 500,000 euros, 20% to 350,000 euros and go by saying and be progressive. I'll go back to what's progressive and what's justice. That would be a strategy, to decide what groups are of the middle classes, not to take anything rich and to have a different reduction in the ENPIA. The other is that these EUR 70-80 million would not make much difference even in the middle classes, so we are doing two hospitals, doing five health centers, spending something different and going on a dosage between reducing taxes and the social state, so that not only the populaces can be favoured, but also the middle layers because they are also going to hospitals. Be careful, because that way you go you will recall Warren Buffet's saying, one of the richest people in the world, who complained to his own government that he spends less as a percentage of her income than his cleanser. That was Warren Buffet's complaint. So I have to tell you, Mr Levane, that there are two principles here, because you said about justice. There is the principle of distributive justice. This is an entire bibliography, what you need to share, to whom and to what criteria. And there's what the market wants. These things are two different principles. When you talk about justice, you cannot tell me what the market is saying, because in politics, every citizen is voting for one vote, while on the market someone who has 1 million euros votes one million times and someone who has 1 euros once. So it's another thing what we want for growth and what the market wants. I imagine you do not have the principle of 'what the market wants'. I hope you have a potion. Even you'll have created a potion that you're going to say is a fair request, that's not fair and everything else. So in distributive justice we have to have principles that are in distributive justice. We can't talk about it because the market wants it. And I cannot think of any principle justifying this for the richest here over EUR 500,000 and over EUR 1 million in this economy, in this society and in these inequalities. Listening to Mr. Lebanese, but more to Mr. Spanakis - and unfortunately, there are not the companions of the KKE, and why I wanted to remind them of John Reid's book "Ten days that have shocked the world", which was after the October Revolution - you have almost convinced us or want to convince us that we had the two days that shocked the Greek economy here. Can we put it a little in a box what are you doing here? We started in September with Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras' announcements of 930 million that happened, after 2019 we received another 1.3 billion, or a total of 2.2 billion, just over 1%, and you come now and add to it 200 million. Well, now, do not exaggerate that this is the great change that will affect and relieve and bring growth. In other words, bring 0.1% less than GDP to boost demand. Welcome? Welcome, but don't show it that things are changing here, that it brought a new government something that the Greek people must go out on the streets and make a party as if it were the Queen's birthday in Britain! You've taken a small prosthetic step of 200 million, 0,1%. So your basic theorem that you seem to believe and worrys me - because I think there are realists in your government, but there are what we call 'true believers' that they have lost, they have bitten the sheet of neoliberalism - is that if we reduce taxes, we will have growth, we will increase revenue. So this test doesn't exist today, i.e. by 0.1% increase we won't be able to check if I'm right or if your true believers are right. I am very grateful to you, Mr Stakoura, of the 'true believers'. I don't know if I'm harming you with the internal things of the New Democracy. I hope not, because I didn't mean to. So let me sum up. We are in favour of Article 1 which is for HISPIA. We would prefer and consider it a little more honest than you were to be different articles and to be able to vote against the reduction in taxes on property of more than EUR 500,000 and more than a million euros. I do not think you will. If you do, welcome, we will vote against it and vote on everything else. We shall also vote in favour of the hundred and twenty instalments, but I think that this bill is'much to do about nothing', a lot of discussion about very little. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. George Vlachos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government consistent with what it has announced before the elections is coming today in very short time, must confess, and it is a sign of writing. It therefore brings a sample of writing and not, if you wish, promises, theories, words and many 'will'. He comes and speaks directly in practice. So he brought in and we will vote today for a bill with several improvements. We heard the opposition make two approaches. One is 'you know, it is good, but it is not much', as Mr Tsakalotos said, which said that'plus 200 are, we have brought more'. No one has of course prevented you from bringing more and I will tell you a little further in my speech in the past what you have answered. However, these improvements that we are talking about ultimately concern, if not the whole of Greek society, but a very large number of our fellow citizens, who have indeed seen the government initiative in all these days. That is why the acceptance of these improvements, you see, has been made almost by the whole of the counterpopulation, both in terms of the substance of these improvements and in terms of the urgency procedure. They all agreed on the urgency of the procedure. What does that mean? Observation that what the government brings ultimately needed and will be incorporated as soon as possible into the daily life of Greek citizens, because some of our fellow citizens - thousands of, I say - expect them to do so and how. In other words, this position and opposition bears witness to the necessity and usefulness of what we are going to vote on today. Of course, we have heard some remarks from the Quaestors, but colleagues have not been tempted today to bid. They forget, however, that they cannot use a phrase and arguments they used until 2015. These have now been judged. This impulse, this "promise of everything" is over. Here, if at some point the Greek people, when it comes to the time, decides on Census, it will obviously weigh on consistency and responsibility rather than on compulsion. Indeed, before - well, the roles change - I for a while thinking about Mrs Papanatsiou - still have not realised that she is not speaking as Minister, yet has been able to change the costume and wear that of Antipopulation, to make comments, to make improvements, to ask for more. Today we remembered the small islands, as if there were no small villages and nothing else. This all, the people who listen to it easily won't ask you why you didn't do it until yesterday, where you actually ruled? You say we'll do it. The "will" won't save anything. Many could claim with the "would". So here, instead of feeling the need to explain a few things, why you did not do things that you consider self-evident today, things that you consider fair, you come today and say, miserable by approaching the subject literally, "what is good, but not enough, something more". And more than that, you especially know that you need proper preparation. It is not all decided in a short time, as we would like. After all, you have taught us that all these years. Because I too would have remarks, for example, Minister, on this today, that, yes, there are cases where we have not seen them, there are injustices that remain. We were also saying yesterday with the New Democracy colleagues that they could join and reward the consequences of Law4321/2015. To be a reward, to lower their doses, to become more. We are all talking about this, and we are rejecting anything, as are others that have been heard here by colleagues, but we must say that we are actually legislating ten days after the formation of the government, in urgent procedure and trying to deal with all those burning things, all that we have identified. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] We could fill out a lot. In a previous bill, Mrs Papanatsiou, as Mr Chakalotos left, when I asked him, "Why can't his follow-ups be joined", he said, "I hear it as a fair, they'll be included" and they're not being included, and they're slowly unregulated. Zero! They're still waiting. So we won't continue. Something's changing here. We have said little before the elections and we are consistently trying to do more than we have said. And that will continue and will be supported by all the New Democracy colleagues, because this is what the Greek society is looking for, and everyone needs it. In conclusion, Madam President, together with the congratulations on the initiative of colleagues in the Ministry's political leadership, we would like you, Minister, to record all these remarks which are heard by all the colleagues of all the wings, at the end - so that in the next period, with more time to see all the things that have been heard before, so that some who, too, think are fair places and are about a lot of Greek society to bring them into discussion and - why not? - the next time we vote. Only with such initiatives will society understand that we are coming back to normality, which is asking for and waiting. I mean, what? Her own anxiety by her representatives from the Step by the Greek Parliament to move her to the government and the government to listen to the MPs, to listen to these daily problems and to respond to specific acts by legislating and giving solutions. This is our approach, this will be consistent from now on, our mission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister for Development, Mr. Georgiadis, has the floor. How much time do you want, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u88	At least, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as you all know, we have started the effort to get investment into Greek. In this context, in order to enable the investment to take place, joint ministerial decisions must be adopted at an extremely short notice, so that the casino contest can be conducted and then the distribution and transfer operation can take place. Joint ministerial rulings must be adopted in such a way that they do not leave any ambiguity in the interpretation which an appeal could have brought, which would have luck in a possible court. In this context, therefore, we are tabling this amendment, which is neither an amendment to the Convention nor to the relevant law, but only an interpretation of the provisions, such as what is defined as a high building. As you know, in the casino area it has already been approved by the Presidential Decree, which has recently been judged and fully legal by the Council of State, the possibility for the casino to make these famous skyscrapers, which we talked about last time. The term "high building" is therefore defined as more than thirty-two meters, which according to the New Building Regulation is the designated high building. But here, we have a completely specific case, which is specified, so that it can be written in the joint ministerial decision without a doubt and is defined in the 100-mile zone, which, once again by the Presidential Decree of 2018, has been established that there can be no higher or equally higher buildings, that is to say, hiding the surrounding view, that this concerns the over thirty-two-mile buildings and paragraph (b) concerns the low casino buildings. Because the casino has the high buildings, but also has the low buildings. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] Paragraph (b) concerns the low-cost casino buildings. I repeat that this amendment does not bring about any change in the convention or in the law at all, but it is only clear about so-called legal certainty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u89	Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. We have no objections. If the actions you take for the Greek help the society as a whole, we will be very pleased. However, excesses should be avoided, 'in one week' and so on. We are pleased to hear this and have no objection to seeing this investment progress. I want to start a little backwards and say that in the "Geopolitan of Chaos" a famous writer wrote that the man who controls the media puts and the rules of democracy. I don't know if he was right or wrong, but it's good for the gatherings to work and think about whether it has anything to do with our reality. I'll explain why I'm saying that. Yesterday and yesterday I heard orchid from various channels about something that happened, an exaggeration. Before I get there, however, I would like without any hesitation to say that the bill on the hundred and twenty instalments and the ENPIA is in the positive direction. Don't hide now, it's good. And 5% that becomes 3% is good and 30% that gets 20% is good and that seizures are stopped is good and much more. When we call it serious opposition, we mean it. We will support it, and we will support it. We have two or three objections. For example, we believe that whoever has a fortune of more than EUR 500,000 and more than EUR 1,000 000 should not - let us say - be favoured in no way, because we could give this money to some who suffer. It's not a crime, though. We have been differentiated there and we have also proposed an amendment. But I want to go somewhere else, and I'll come to the previous subject where the media yesterday and the other night made incredible noise. I was listening with my ears. They did not make all the media noise - I want to be fair - and all the newspapers and I do not now want to make advertising. Opposite newspapers - previously, not now - have not dealt with this at all. And I explain: we have heard Mr Brutsi - who recently, I don't know, wants to be at the centre, something he does - channels the press to the press that the SYRIZA regime was giving great pensions. We saw the number 24,000, we saw the number 20,000, we saw the number 18,000, the number 8,000. Really - if you'll excuse the expression - you're pinching, you're saying what's going on. Were things like that going on and we didn't get it? Shall we put a little bit of order on this? First of all, I would like to ask - I have asked three times - and Mr Brutsi - who is absent from the Chamber - whether one of these figures actually got this pension if this pension was paid, if there is one person who has been paid for this wonderful pension. I'm asking again: is there even one person? In other words, Mr Brutsis discovered high pensions. Did he discover a person who took these pensions? We want him to answer us. No one had received such pensions. And I can explain: there are three categories of insured persons. I will not go into the first two - which I think we all agree - where the pension is based. In the first category, it does not go to the worst case over 3,166 euros. In the second, even when pensions are two, namely from two sources, it does not go beyond 2,000 to 3,000 euros. And it's a third charge, which is worth it here to hear from Mr. Brutsis again. I'm sorry to mention his name, but there was a terrible noise yesterday. They all opened a channel and waited to see what was going to happen. So there are some people who were insured under old regimes before 2016 - we do not care about the law number - and they asked for retirement after 2016 and after 1-1-2019. Just because this old system for certain categories of insured persons did not provide for ceilings on contributions, there were no pension ceilings. It's a fact. That is why the government had drawn up a draft, a legislation that exists, which set a pension ceiling at twelfths of the national pension. I say it again, it's printed, there's and you can have it. Early elections took place, and that never came to the surface. Mr Brutsis, however, used it as if it were a fact and I ask him for the fourth time to tell us whether or not a person has received such a pension. No one's got that kind of pension. The mandate given to the EPC not to issue high pensions was the reason that this leftover arrangement was not carried out.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Papachristopoulos, you've been over six minutes. How much more time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u92	I don't want to. If you give me one, you give me one. If you tell me to stop, I'm stopping.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u93	Complete your sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u94	How much time do I have? Do I have a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u95	Yeah, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u96	Good, thanks. With make news we've played a lot in the last four years. I don't want to remind the Prime Minister's house in auction and where he died. I could say a lot. It is a pity, however, to continue this violin. I saw the Prime Minister - and I say it - a mildness, a good climate and I am the first to say that today's bill is in the positive direction and we have no objection to that. Let anyone who does good be who wants to be, as long as it is good for society as a whole. I would like to say this: The first samples of writing in another bill coming tomorrow or the day after tomorrow are not good, as is a wave of reunification that I saw with a minister, who can be disliked, but is honest, conflicted frontally with the strife, and I mean Paul Paul Paulakis and put order in health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. Mr Arvanitides has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the mere fact that the first bill of my parliamentary term is economical and urgent shows that our economy, but also the daily life of the citizens, still have a long way to go until we talk about a return to normality. The measures you are bringing, of course, are of great importance in alleviating citizens and in such an effort no one can be negative. In the articles, there could be a different escalation of sums in the HOPIA, or even some distinct measures of additional protection for disabled persons. However, fragmentary legislation and individual arrangements are not what we would call'relaunching of the economy'. The country has a huge need for sustainable growth at a high rate and for a long period of several years, and then we can only say that we are going back into normality. We need another mixture of economic policy and we expect the government to present a comprehensive programme on how, when, by what means, policies will achieve it. Only then can we have a serious debate on how and with what tax measures the government will make resources to serve this whole plan. First of all, of course, any debate on the development of such a project, but also its effectiveness, should start from the renegotiation of the primary surplus from 3.5% to 2%. If there is no differentiation in this number, in this Memorandum of Understanding, it will be very difficult for the country to acquire a financial space to unify other policies. We as a Change Movement and in the previous parliamentary term have tabled various ideas, proposals, amendments and legislative initiatives for such measures that must be taken immediately so that social justice can be attributed to and supported by the weaker social groups, the middle class, young people and farmers. I mention, for example, our proposal to support young people for five years starting their own business and must be exempt from taxes and levies, to provide tax incentives for recruiting young unemployed people in the private sector, to reduce production costs for farmers and to return the VAT rate to 13%. Of course we expect the Minister to tell us what he intends to do about the taxation of agricultural parcels, which is suspended, as you know, by 1 January 2020. Our position is that we urgently need to legislate for a definitive discharge of agricultural parcels. I therefore think that the Minister should make it clear how the state treats the well-paid. Election on the agenda of both the Prime Minister and the ministers stressed the need to reward the consistent taxpayers. Now, as you say, in the first symbolic draft of the new Government of New Democracy, we do not see, but we do not hear you say anything. So what are your intentions on this matter? Ladies and gentlemen, I will insist and insist on every debate on the economy that we need to have the great goal picture, which is not only sustainable growth at a high pace for a long period of time, for another new production model. If we do not see all of this, if there are no divisions and not just regulation, such as this bill, we will, unfortunately, reentry into the vicious circle of recession. We need a productive transformation tailored to the demands of the fourth industrial revolution, in a changing world that our country will produce products and services with added value. No matter how much tax relief we legislate, no matter how much the property market is stimulated, they will not in themselves bring about the much-needed development and change of the way in which the country produces. Let's remember that this recipe we lived after the Olympic Games in the period 2005-2008, when from the acquired speed of Olympic works, the economy was growing and the New Democracy government at the time proceeded with tax relief. But we saw, immediately after a fall, a recession, a crisis. So the opportunity was lost to take advantage of all the added value left by the Olympic Games and the obvious need that any productive model until then had reached its limits and needed other directions. I recognise that it is very important that Greeks and Greeks do not need to work half a year to pay taxes on tax, as did the recent research carried out by the Centre for Liberal Studies and, indeed, when the total amount of tax and insurance contributions is almost twice as high as that for the living needs they face. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to need a minimum of time, Mr. President. On the other hand, you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, must not fall into the trap and delusion of liberal ideas. The tax tool is not an automatic development pilot. So let us not be more spectators in the same work. The ages of illusion are now over. The delusions are over, the SYRIZA ideologies are over and there is no time to lose with new ideas, this time from the New Democracy area. If this opportunity is lost at the end of a economic cycle too, if we do not move towards a radical production process, with solid bases and sustainable development, we will no longer be blamed for our bad roots, nor will foreigners. So let us use the opportunity to create a new start in the economy. Let us change the target for the surpluses and the transformation of the surplus fund into a public property fund. Let us pursue sustainable development and high targets for several years with radical productive reconstruction. This is our compass of economic policy, and on this basis it will be our programme of progressive opposition to any economic and development bill that the new government will bring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr Arvanitidis. Mr Katsotis has said the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the JRC parliamentary group tabled three amendments. You haven't been placed for them. You're obviously rejecting them. What are these amendments? The first concerns the abolition of HISPIA for the property of the people's family, for the first and second housing that meets the needs of housing and recreation. That's how the taxi nipple will relax from the people's family. The rejection by you, as by SYRIZA before, shows your common strategy that burdens the burdens of crisis and development on the people. That's normality for you. The second concerns the deletion of interest, surcharges and reduction of the debts of the people's families from public debts, arrangements for the insurance funds of the non-wages and those insured in the OGA. This deletes the total interest and surcharges for debts in the government of up to EUR 20,000 and a 30% reduction in the initial accredited debt for debtors with an annual taxable income of up to EUR 20,000. For the unemployed, the deletion amounts to 50%. On the basis of our amendment, the contribution to solidarity and the fee for taxable incomes of up to EUR 20,000 is abolished. With our amendment, interest and surcharges on debts of up to EUR 50,000 to the insurance funds of the self-employed are deleted. Interest and surcharges on debts of up to EUR 20,000 shall be deleted for OGA insured persons. Our amendment abolishes the contribution of the health sector and the debts resulting therefrom. A pension is granted to those who have fulfilled the conditions, since the total debt does not exceed EUR 50,000. The debt resulting from these provisions to the insurance funds and the public is regulated in interest-free monthly, equal instalments which on an annual basis do not exceed 5% of the annual taxable income of up to EUR 20,000. The rejection, Minister, of this amendment - as it was before SYRIZA, because we had tabled it before - shows that the victims of politics will continue to be the popular strata that the nipple in their necks will tighten even further. The third amendment concerns the granting of a benefit for dangerous and unhealthy work to workers in the Greek Defence Systems. In 2011, Law 2024 provided for the grant of the allowance and defined the beneficiaries, the terms, conditions and the payment procedure. In 2015, L.4354, as well as in 2016, it was foreseen to continue its payment and specified categories and qualifications of employees. But, Minister, it does not include workers in NSAs who, by the nature of their work, are exposed to unhealthy and dangerous conditions. Our amendment provides for payment of the allowance to the employees of the NSAs, of the factories of Achaia, Lavrio, Mandras and Hymettos in three categories: the first based on the sections and specialties amounting to EUR 150, in the second category to EUR 70, in the third category EUR 35. The amendment refers in detail, Mr Minister, the departments and workshops, the qualifications employed in the three categories, as well as the exceptions to the payment of the allowance. We call on you to respond if you accept this amendment and, if not, how this injustice is justified at the expense of the workers. The Government of New Democracy, with its arrangements under this draft law, continues, like the previous SYRIZA, to try to bring workers into the guises of state funds, the self-employed, the poor farm to pay the debts created by your policy, which loaded the capitalist crisis with the Memorandums and the hundreds of law enforcement. The smuggling of wages, pensions and income totals, as well as the ribbon with the great tax raid, led a large majority of the people who produced and produced the unscrupulous wealth, to owe. The one who owes millions is an investor and the one who owes even a euro as a bad payer. To the worker within one night you have reduced the minimum wage up to 32%, at the same time reduced the tax on him from EUR 12,000 to EUR 8,636 and from EUR 10,500 to 22% for the free traders, from EUR 1. You have introduced new taxes, such as HOPIA, the contribution of solidarity, other than anti-popular indirect taxes such as VAT on first-hand goods. We note that ENVIA has been amended seventeen times so far, but it remains HNVIA, the hard, anti-grass tax. Accordingly, throughout this period, tax relief continued in large enterprises, tax exemptions and the provocative taxation of shipowners. This policy characterises all the governments that have managed the needs of capital, breaking workers and popular strata. Today, New Democracy begins with the reduction of HPAI in order to make it easier to justify the next tax legislation, which has, moreover, been announced for the benefit of business groups, such as over-depreciation of 200%, the reduction in capital taxes from 28% to 20% in two years, a reduction in the tax on dividends to 5%. The large capital pays - it is known - only EUR 3 billion from the EUR 55 billion budget. The tax pays only the popular layers, not the industrialists and the shipowners. You show the hundred and twenty doses as a relief. What you are doing is trying to legitimise in the consciousness of the workers unjust, anti-linguistic taxes and debts, to form a legal and technical framework to facilitate the repayment of the debts of the people's layers that they cannot repay. That is not a provision, to pay in instalments the great taxes and red loans. The only solution to the problem lies in the workers' own claims, in the legal proposals put forward by the JRC, which provide for the abolition of HICPIA, the radical cut in the debts of the people's families, by charging the burden only on large capital.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u101	Mr. Katsotis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u102	I shall conclude, Mr President. We call on the working class, the self-employed, the poor farmer not to compromise with anti-Fraud policy, to make a case of his struggle with his own needs, the amendments made by the JRC, which respond to the acute problems, the overthrowing of the dictatorship of capital. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u103	Be well. Mr. Varoufakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it was necessary for the government to bring tax bills. The economy of the country has been in a deep state for many years. You're the treating physician, Mr. Stakoura. You were obliged to bring tax bills. But let's take a look at what you brought, because the numbers can't hide the truth, since we're honest in reading them. We are talking about 465 million euros, of which 205 million euros was a polite sponsorship of the previous government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u105	The EUR 265 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u106	My calculation is 205 million euros. You'll allow me to talk about this later. Essentially, your intervention with regard to the ENPI is of no importance. We have a 0.11% of GDP. Macroeconomicly, there will be no serious reinforcement of the active demand for investment through it. But let's see this game you're playing with SYRIZA overcrowd. The government of SYRIZA until recently played over the surplus of 3.5%. These are tips that are not negative. I have no objection to getting a little financial support to the pensioner. You give it through HISPIA. But what exactly do you give? The rapporteur of the New Democracy spoke of social justice and there was a dispute with SYRIZA on class. What do we regard as social justice? From your information, Minister, from your Ministry, it appears that our fellow citizens with an objective property value above EUR 1 million are around 0,2% of the population. The part of the reliefs that will benefit them is 5%. In fact it is at EUR 1,567 per natural or legal person. In other words, if we compare a family with an objective property value of around EUR 80,000 that will receive around EUR 90, the amount that will receive a rich family or a wealthy business from your relief is this: for every 1 euro that the family will get with the 80,000 euros property, the rich family will get 17.4 euros. However, because you are also talking about the middle-class that was not covered by the previous SYRIZA regulations, let's go to a family of 200,000 euros of objective value. It'll take 170 euros. That is why it is for every 1 euro to benefit the family with 200,000 euros, a rich family will receive EUR 9.2. That's not social justice. The fact that your bill of law is not in the direction of social justice could be a mistake. Unfortunately, however, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, the amendment that the Greek Government has brought to this Chamber today is simply as if you had planned it to convince us, those who are not fully convinced, that this is a chosen classicity, that this government - as Mer25 said in an election, on the fourth memorial that SYRIZA undisturbedly brought, you will build the most parasitic oligarchy. We, as a PARTA25, have a specific amendment, which we are putting to the debate and the crisis of all the wings of this House: For property with an objective value below EUR 70,000, zero-ENPIA. It is not possible for a poor family in Perama to pay even EUR 1 for a house that, according to the Greek state, has an objective value below EUR 70,000. What we are proposing is this: between EUR 70,000 and EUR 500,000 let us make the cut that you are proposing, mid-weightly around 25%. At the same time we propose between EUR 500,000 and EUR 1 million no change. Leave it where it is. It is not possible for someone who has an object value of 900,000 euros to make any reductions to him when you do not remove HNPH for the sufferers who have a studio somewhere. And we are proposing - this is the principle of progressive taxation - for property with more than EUR 1 million, an increase of 10%. And if you question the principle of the progressiveity of the tax system, you question what has introduced some cultural elements into capitalism after World War II. We will agree with the amendment that the Change Movement brings to a 50% reduction in the traditional settlements in the preserved and agricultural parcels. We will not agree with the friends of the JRC, because we do not believe that a property of EUR 2 million, EUR 3 million, falls under the popular residence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u107	Is that what we said?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u108	Who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u109	You said to abolish the first and second residences.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u110	To cover the people's family.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u111	Yeah, I'm not a folk family. I demand to pay over what I pay today.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u112	Let go of that now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u113	Why would I leave them? Since I'm telling you I'm demanding? Can I tell you I'm not demanding it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u114	You're falsifying our position.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u115	That's not what I meant.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u116	That's your cause.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u117	I just think that, in accordance with your amendment, and I will include in the full relief, the abolition of the ENPIA. It's something I can't plead for. Let's go to 20 doses now. I have listened very carefully to the rapporteur from the New Democracy. If I didn't know what had happened in this country, I would have thought - from what I heard - that the government dues were ejected into the air after 2014, from 2015 onwards. Well, it's not like that, ladies and gentlemen. Once we entered the memorandum, we had an increase in the outstanding debts of EUR 3.6 billion in 2011, another EUR 7 billion in 2012, another EUR 11 billion in 2013, another EUR 9 billion in 2013 and in 2014, when you were at the Ministry, another EUR 14 billion in 2014. Since then, of course, we have had a further increase of 28 billion. In other words, about 7 billion a year. Last time you were at the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Stakoura, we had an increase in the outstanding debts of 14 billion. In recent years we have had an average of 7 billion. I do not want to criticise you in relation to SYRIZA, who is better, who is worse. It doesn't matter. The reason we have more than 100 billion outstanding public debts is the fourfold bankruptcy from which the country is suffering. A bankrupt, bankrupt, bankrupt households, bankrupt businesses. From this we're not going to get out of the memorial populism. From this we're not going to go out with bills like what you brought today. We, as a PARTA25, tabled an amendment yesterday to abolish the 100% tax advance, starting at the beginning of companies with fewer than five employees. It is a reproach that they are paying the 2020 tax today. But this amendment was rejected as irrelevant to the tax bill. But Mr. Latsi's gift, with which you insist to remind us of your mobility, was not irrelevant to the tax bill. Ladies and gentlemen, it is VAT and red loans that will judge whether there will be growth dynamics in that country. These are completely absent from this tax bill. This tax bill does not relate to any of the points, to any of the aspects that hurt the Greek private sector, to businesses, to the popular layers, to the middle class. Minister, the previous government tried to mislead the Greek people by talking about debt relief, when all it did was get more than 100 billion, which was repayments by 2030, pushed them in the future and got payment facilities. Ladies and gentlemen, the payment facilities of an unsustainable debt do not make it more sustainable. What they do is deepen bankruptcy, push it towards the future and trap Greek society - whether it is the public or private - into an even less sustainable debt. The hundred and twenty instalments are the only part of your bill that we are going to vote for. And we will vote for it only because there is the prediction to end seizures in order to reduce the doses from thirty to twenty. bankruptcy, which is the real problem behind this story, is not going to be dealt with with by this tax bill. So you're bringing us a bill that you're trying to falsify us as a tax or a move to alleviate the middle class. What middle class? In the last eight memorial years, she's been destroyed. They've destroyed the working class, they've destroyed the middle class. She's been poored. You are now coming with a redistribution of minimum income and tax exemptions to improve on the basis of one to seventeen of the situation. These 1,600 euros that a family will take to Akali to know they won't put them to consumption. Probably their child's apps in i-tunes will be done. It's in the wrong direction, it's misleading, it's classic. We are voting against them. In fact, as Mera25 we are sad that we are the only party to vote against this bill. We could never. He wouldn't take our hand. We would not be able to hear the voice of saying that we are voting in the first place for a tax bill that is completely irrelevant to the country's tax problem and a tax bill that is supposed to be in favour of the middle-class, when it does nothing about the middle-class, does nothing about the working class, does everything for Mr. Latsis and your friends in Ekali. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u118	The Minister for Finance, Mr Stavros, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank you for the excellent level of debate we have had today and yesterday in the committee with arguments on the substance of policies. In my programme statements I stressed that the new government sets as a fundamental objective the high and sustainable growth and growth of the economy with a fairer distribution of the wealth produced, with increasing full-time jobs, with sound public finances, with a sound banking sector, covering the investment gap, with an outward-looking digital footprint, with the general return of the economy and the country to normality. The approach of this objective has already been launched by the New Democracy Government to move the country and, above all, the economy towards an upward virtuous spiral. In this regard, hierarchical targets are the low borrowing costs, the country's return to investment grade, the improvement of the sustainability of public debt, and hence the strengthening of the country's negotiating capacity to reduce primary surpluses. The economic aspects of all our policies in all the real areas of the public spheres are moving in this logic. They move along with that logic. Already in the early days of new government without triumphant triumphs are recorded in the field of the economy some positive signs that affect budget results, as well as in response to colleagues' questions. In the last two weeks Greek state bills were issued at the lowest cost of the last fifteen years. Seven-year bonds were issued at the cost of borrowing half of the corresponding 2018 issue, 1.9% compared to 3.5%. Responsible European officials said that this was due to the prospects of the new government and its economic policy proposals. The economic climate index has been reinforced, noting the highest performance since July 2008, and for the first time exceeding the Eurozone average since 2014. Since 2014, we haven't seen this. I guess it closes an unpleasant circle of the economy. The process of completely lifting the capital restrictions imposed on the country following the disastrous negotiation of the first half of 2015 is under way. The first fiscal draft of the Government, which provides for the budgetary framework and the budgetary priorities of the Government of New Democracy, has been tabled and we are debating today the first reasoned reductions in taxes and the enlargement of the institutional framework for the debts of the citizens to tax, earlier than our election commitments. I would also remind you that Mr Varoufakis quite rightly mentioned this as a result of the over-taxation of households and businesses. So we come to correct on the basis of the priorities we have and the space we have, I repeat, mistakes from the previous government. We have many private debts too. Indeed. The debts of private individuals have not been created in the last four years. There were, but they were never increased to four years by 46%, thus reaching EUR 104 billion today, confirming that the capacity of natural and legal persons, households and businesses had been exhausted. This legislative initiative, therefore, which we are debating today, has a strong dimension, social and development. It is a step upwards, step forward in the virtuous circle, in the virtuous spiral I talked to you about. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under discussion sets two priorities. Priority: ENVIRONMENT is reduced by 22% from 2019. This reduction in taxes, as I said yesterday, does not exclude a Greek citizen. All citizens will see a reduction in the burden on their real estate. This reduction, however, is not horizontal. It's much bigger for low incomes and middle-class. The middle class that has been so badly affected in recent years by the conscious choice of the SYRIZA government to exaggerate it. We heard about this issue yesterday and today, incredible inaccuracies by colleagues, MPs of the Opposition. I heard something today about crumbs, ash in the eyes. Let us say some truths about the New Democracy Government and its parliamentary group. First truth: The Government of New Democracy had said in an election that it would go ahead with a reduction in HICP, as well as other direct and indirect taxes on natural and legal persons from 2020 onwards. Finally, it goes on to reduce the EMCDDA earlier than it had previously promised, and they will follow, based on our planning, and the next ones. We have already committed ourselves to reducing the tax on businesses from 28% to 24% for the incomes of 2019 to I repeat, for the incomes of 2019 to 2020. Second truth: the New Democracy's commitment to a 30% reduction is valid in full. Third truth: The proposed reduction of ENVY does not give much to a few. Let's explain that. The very large properties, namely those with over EUR 1 million real estate, are only fourteen thousand eight hundred forty-one in a total of seven million of three hundred thousand taxpayers. And they also pay a supplementary tax, which no one has said in this Chamber. They're also paying a supplementary tax. The relief that these citizens will see is in fact EUR 22 million of the EUR 465 million which is the total cost, that is to say only 5% of the total relief from the reduction in the EMSDDA. I heard from the Qualified Opposition that 'after you found a financial space, go up to EUR 500 000'. First of all, because I did a little research into the Minutes of the House, the previous government and the Minister responsible claimed that up to EUR 200 000 would run out of middle order. Today, all of a sudden, the middle-class goalposts went to 500 thousand euros. So it's easy to move the middle-class goalposts for Civic Anti-Civilization. I have heard another argument that from the amount resulting from the difference over EUR 500 000, it could be used to build building infrastructure - I have heard it today - for health. First of all, let me remind you that for days SYRIZA no health infrastructure has been made. Evaluative crises, on the priorities for policies, are perfectly legitimate, as long as they do not go beyond the limits of aggressionist populism. I would remind you that in the country all health infrastructures have been made in connection with the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK. In our own policy, we believe that, with the triggering of the process of growth in the economy, much more public building infrastructure will be available in a second round. So growth for us is the project. Fourth truth: The proposed reduction of HPAI does indeed give many people, especially the economically weaker and medium-sized ones. Hold on to two percentages: The reduction of seven million two hundred thousand people with real estate from EUR 1 to EUR 500 000 is 86% of the total relief. That is, until the incomes you want us to take the regulation, there is a benefit of 86% of the total relief. Those with no real estate of up to 200 thousand euros will benefit 67% of the total relief. So that's social sensitivity, that's social justice. Four hundred and seventy-four thousand of our compatriots, worth more than 200 thousand euros, many of whom belong in the middle class and who would not see any relief from the previous government, will benefit, for the first time under this arrangement. A million three hundred thousand of our compatriots with a real estate value of between EUR 80 000 and EUR 200 000 will see greater relief with the regulation of the Government of New Democracy in relation to the previous regulation. How much reduction will they see? From EUR 90 to EUR 170. In conclusion, the New Democracy Government is immediately relieved by millions of owners, mainly low incomes and middle-class. The real estate market is stimulated and the quality of the bank's loan portfolio is improved. And all of this, I will repeat it and say it all the time, in terms of portability and proportionality, in terms of efficiency and justice, because that is what we believe in the proponents of social liberalism. The principle of proportionality, which we support, contradicts the selective benefit of only one category against others. First of all, it is at the foot of the anomaly exemption from a favourable measure of certain categories of our compatriots. Equality therefore requires, if a reduction in tax is to come, that all of this be brought to fruition, depending on the basis of their powers. And that's not classic. Class distinction is exclusion and exclusion. Analogous application for everyone is simple and self-evidently fair and consistent with our Constitution. Finally, let us not forget that property often fails to generate revenue to the owner, especially when the owner can pay a supplementary tax. This citizen must therefore also be protected. So I repeat: proportional equality, depending on the basis of each citizen's powers. The second priority: improving and extending the institutional framework for the regulation of an hundred and twenty-dollars. The minimum monthly payment shall be reduced from EUR 30 to EUR 20. Why is that important? Of the total of three million trillions of debtors, two million eight hundred thousand have debts from 15 euros to 3,600 euros. This category will therefore be able to join the hundred 20 instalments with a minimum of 20 euros. Thus, there is the possibility of increasing doses, encouraging consistency, alleviating debtors. The interest rate charged to households and businesses is reduced by 5%, currently at 3%, in order not to have a high burden on the debtor and on grounds of equality with public debt. And as I said yesterday, this in a government bill that will be submitted this week also extends to the insurance funds. The regulation is widened in up to a hundred twenty instalments with all legal persons having a basic debt of up to a million euros. What does a basic debt mean? This is the amount of subordinated liabilities that are not included in the balance sheet. With this arrangement we can cover much more legal persons than the ones that ran for the previous government to cover with PPP, when it understood the mistake in the law of a hundred and twenty instalments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u120	Minister, how much longer do you need?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u121	I need five minutes. Thank you very much. The debtor may, at any stage of the settlement, choose the one-off repayment of the remaining instalments or the transfer to a lesser number of instalments at the same time as the remaining amount of increases and interest corresponding to the number of monthly instalments finally selected. Where an amount of at least twice the monthly adjustment rate is paid during the entry into the arrangement, an equal exemption shall be granted for total incremental increases and late payment interest. Also very important is the fact that for those who join and follow the arrangement, seizures and the continuation of enforcement measures are suspended. Debtholders who already have a problem in regulating their debts with the existing institutional framework may choose, if they so wish, to be subject to the arrangements of the present institutional framework. This draft law makes it clear that this extremely favourable regulation will be the last. After it expires, there will be a permanent, financially reasonable and fair system of fixed arrangements that will prevent the need to resort again to exceptional arrangements in the future. We therefore have set a well-known and stable framework of rules from the outset. This is how we build stability with citizens, so we seek to regain citizens' confidence and, yes, we expect far more public revenue than this regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, as a government, we are going in the public interest and not the markets, as I have heard from the Qualified Opposition. We hear them, but we do not decay. We are defenders of the social market economy with a system of values that combines old and tested good values with new and promising, with honesty, measure and moderation, with ethos, realism, dignity and hard work, away from deceptive, creative ambiguity, ideality and domination. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I repeat that the aim of the fiscal policy of the new Government of New Democracy is to reconcile the development dimension with social care, without jeopardising the fiscal stability of the country, with the movement of healthy, productive and extroverted entrepreneurship, with an increase in the available income of households, in particular the middle-class which has been declining in recent years, a middle-class which, on the basis of labour-income and natural wealth criteria, we want to be the major part of the Greek economy and society, a middle-class which, as backbone of the Greek economy and society, must play an active role in development and progress, operating exemplarily. Ladies and gentlemen, the new New Democracy Government, by planning and implementing policies in all areas of the public sphere, seeks to reconstruct the country's productive and creative forces as a prerequisite for sustainable development, social prosperity, restoration of normality in the country. I am realistically optimistic that we will succeed. In conclusion, I would like to point out that as far as the Ministerial Amendment is concerned...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u122	Minister, I'm sorry, but you're embarrassing me. You've reached 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u123	Yes, I should also like to reply to the amendments. With regard to the Ministerial Amendment No 8 and number 8, the title of the bill is added to the end 'and other provisions'. No parliamentary amendment can be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u124	Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Communist Party, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u125	Mr President, I would like to speak. I have the right...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u126	Yes, but Mr. Karathanasopoulos has not spoken at all. Immediately after Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u127	So the regulations don't apply? I want to make it clear to know another time, do I have that right or don't I have it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Tsakalotos, Mr. Karathanasopoulos had requested the floor and immediately afterwards...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u129	No, it's not like that. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u130	Mr. Karathanasopoulos has never spoken before. Have a seat. Don't worry, you'll talk, Mr. Chakaloto.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u131	It's not right what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u132	You'll talk right after.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u133	So you're changing the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u134	You're right, Mr. Chakaloto.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u135	Mr. Loverdos says I'm right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u136	Mr. Loverdos has said more. If he's right about that, he'll have the rest. Take care of that. Mr. Tsakalotos, sit now and talk to Mr. Karathanasopoulos and then to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u137	I want the Bureau to tell us what rights we have in order not to do so. You cannot change the Rules of Procedure. Give us a full analysis of what rights we have. And you're making a double mistake, because I asked you to speak and I made sense to you...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Karathanasopoulos had climbed up and...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u139	This isn't about what you're saying. Don't you know the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u140	Why are you so sad?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u141	Because you don't know the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u142	Have a minute and you'll talk right after Mr. Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. Today's debate, like yesterday, has also highlighted a huge legalisation operation by all parties, other than the JRC, in the popular awareness of the anti-grassroots character of the tax system. This nature of the tax system with micro-mediums does not change. It is anti-grassy, because almost all revenues are derived from the popular layers, while, on the contrary, business groups only contribute 5%, having legal tax exemptions - shipowners have fifty five tax exemptions - using the business groups in creative accounting, concealing revenues and profits by exploiting tax havens. Of course this situation will worsen even further than the current government, like the previous SYRIZA, has seen the development dimension of tax policy. In other words, companies will become less and less involved in tax revenues, less and less will be involved. For this very reason and the measures, for example, of the previous government were clear: a reduction in the tax rate for legal persons, a reduction in the distributed profits. And today the New Democracy Government takes SYRIZA's scourge and further reduces the tax on legal persons, further reduces the tax on distributed profits. This, then, highlights the anti-grassroots, the classic character of the tax system that is not going to change with certain small-scales, since it is actually taking from the people and basically gives the lion's share of business groups through state spending, state funding to monopolies. All this at a time when the tax system is getting worse by given budgetary discipline, as a basic policy of the European Union, and the bloody primary surpluses by 2060. Public income tax has also been a common component of your policies, of the previous governments and of the current government. And this is reasonably reflected in the exact same chart of outstanding debts, when it appears that 95.8% of taxpayers owe only 6.2% of outstanding debts of 104 billion. In other words, the vast majority that owes tax to up to EUR 20,000 owes only 6.2%. And this charge was swollen, escalated at the time of the memorials, precisely because of the tax choices made by the previous governments, which the current government is doing and maintains. From this point of view, the amendments you bring to the law on the regulation of 20 instalments are precisely a challenge in our view, why exactly what do you want? You want to tighten up the nipple on the neck of the populace, when they have to fulfil their current tax obligations, because it is precisely in this regulation that you also incorporate businesses with a basic debt of up to EUR 1 million. In fact, PASOK is pushing you to take advantage of this provision and for the insurance system for the hundred and twenty instalments, that is to say, to join legal persons, who - take care - when they owe the insurance funds the illegally withheld contributions of their employees. So here's how you use each measure just to ensure and shield the competitiveness of business groups. This basically leads to the legitimisation of the anti-grassroots tax system and workers accepting whatever arrangements are made. So our concept of the tax system is quite different. We say that people's families need to be exempt from tax burdens and pay big capital, business groups, economic oligarchy. In contrast to this, you legalise the ravages even when a number of parties seem to have better to deal with inequalities. Even such a logic in legitimising characters leads, like HICPIA. So, what do you say all parties? You say: "Look at you, for the house that with a thousand labors and sacrifices you made and you may owe it you have to pay rent." That's what you tell him. You claim that he has to do and he has to accept it, even small - small, but you have to pay even if you owe. So, pay for the whole so there can be what? To have tax revenues, to give them to creditors and business groups, while reducing the costs of care and health. And from this point of view, the regulation brought about by the HIS government is challenging. Very quickly you copy the methods of the previous government. Of course, from the mathematics, we went to neo-democratic mathematics, Minister. Is it possible to say that we give many people a lot, when the opposite is the case? You give a few people and a lot of them. Why else would it mean that in one who has a real estate of up to EUR 60,000, you give him EUR 95, while in one who has a real estate of more than EUR 1 million, you give him EUR 1,550 in half-weight? Is that the same? Is there a comparison measure? That is the essence, EUR 95 to the poor, EUR 1,500 to the rich. So here's what your regulation is and where it leads. It is precisely to legitimize the world that everyone must contribute to the State's revenues so that lenders and the needs of business groups can be served. And from this point of view, we were not impressed by Mr Varoufakis' attitude towards the JRC's amendment. Mr Varoufakis or agram is or is a provocator, because the JRC's amendment says very specifically: HNVIA is being abolished in the first and secondary housing, which meets the needs of housing and recreation of the people's family, while at the same time increasing the taxation of large real estate both by businesses and by natural persons. And the people's family is very specific in our analysis, resulting from its position in production and from popular incomes. From this point of view, neither Mr Varoufakis' position on production nor his income incorporates him into the people's family, but he is rather afraid that he will pay much more if the JRC's amendment was voted on. But that is not whether or not he will pay himself more or not. Another is the question of the provocative she wants to set up, playing very briefly the role of the left-wing scissors of the system. And what's that? To describe the JRC's proposals as a pillistic one. Is the maximist target of EUR 751 a lower wage? Can she cover her needs in a different way? No, they can't even cover. Are the objectives of the JRC, with this eruption of science and technology, with this rise in labour productivity? Instead of living better, he lives worse than in previous years and will live worse in the next few years. Everyone else responds to the needs. And Mr Varoufakis plays this provocative role, because he is, of course, ruining the soup in which he too is integrated. So, what soup? That things will get worse in the coming years, in the coming decades for the workers, for the wide-popular strata and the only care to be taken is for the poor and the impoverished, for dealing with the poverty generated by the system of capitalism and your policy through redistribution to the least. So this is the reason why the JRC's attack lies, because it can and can prove that it is possible today to meet all the needs of the people's family. And from this point of view, it also responds to what other forces are inclined to you - and SYRIZA and PASOK and others - that there is a national strategy, a national negotiation with the lenders, to do what? To reduce the primary surpluses. Is this going to change into something that the worker is experiencing, employers' arbitrariness, terrorism, poverty wages, overthrows in industrial relations, insurance? No, of course it's not going to change anything. What will change and what will improve? The State’s capacity and capacity to finance and support business groups. That is why all this debate on the pension ceiling is being held. Why do you want to do this? You want to legitimize the reality that says what? That 70% of pensioners receive a pension of up to 600 euros. On the contrary, there is the JRC's proposal for brave increases in pensions, for the return of the total loss stolen by pensioners and put as a smokescreen on the ceiling, says that you must create, leaving the floor of national pensions unchanged, this welfare pension of 350-360 euros, so that people can learn to live with smaller demands, because you have ensured that you manipulate the labour and popular movement, make it an applause of anti-class policy and at the same time tail of the interests of monopolistic groups. You will find us in this logic, because we want an organized, mass, a reconstructed labour movement that has a clear class orientation and conflicts with the interests of capital and monopolies that are the cause of the worsening position of the people's family until the more comprehensive ballots and overthrows, so that our people can live on the basis of the possibilities that exist today and meet all the needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u144	Mr. Chaakalot, do you want to use dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u145	I would like you to explain to me whether I can, apart from my speech, speak to a minister to have a three-minute term.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u146	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u147	I asked Mr Loverdos and he said that I had this right, because Mr Loverdos is a parliamentary representative for many years. I've only been here for five days, and I didn't know it. So I think you guys haven't beenhaved properly. You can clarify it, I might be wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u148	Mr Tsakaloto, you have been a parliamentarian for many years, and before you became a minister here. As you know, the prototype cycle was not closed and Karathanasopoulos was prioritised at this stage.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u149	So, according to you, the Rules of Procedure say they need to speak...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u150	Wait a minute, Mr. Chakaloto. That's the rule. To you, it's something else. With Mr. Loverdos you can consult and agree to others. I believe that you will not only agree on this. The Rules of Procedure are, however, in this respect. You want to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u151	I need a clarification...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u152	I told you the clarification. If you don't like it, it's your thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u153	So you're officially saying - to say it in my own words - that I have no right...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u154	Mr. Chaakalato...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u155	Can I finish?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u156	You have the right to do a dentistry, but since the prototype cycle is not closed, Mr. Karathasopoulos is a priority.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u157	I didn't ask for a dentistry, and you know it well!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u158	The priority is to finish the prototype, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, who hadn't spoken, and then the others.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u159	So you say that the Rules of Procedure say that the right to speak after a Minister for three minutes, in addition to my time, is valid if - and only if - all the parliamentary representatives have spoken. Is that what you claim? We'll see about that. Let's talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u160	Do you want anything other than that now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u161	First of all, I would like you not to have that look and this irony. You're Vice President of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u162	Look, Mr. Chakaloto...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u163	This little thing elsewhere!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u164	I understand that when you can't...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u165	Do you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u166	Mr. Chakalato, please very much. You can't do what you're doing! You cannot, if you do not like anything, attack the Bureau. Understand? You can't do that!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u167	I'm attacking your little face! I asked the Minister for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u168	As far as the style is concerned, I don't like your style either, but I don't put it as a matter of fact. I say this...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u169	Mr President, can you understand that you are now Vice-President of the House?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u170	Mr. Chaakalot, I have an answer for everything. But since I am President-in-Office, I do not want to give you the answer I have. I would therefore ask you to continue, answer Mr Stakoura for three minutes and proceed with the procedure. I have an answer. Don't think I don't have an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u171	If you had done your job properly, I would have spoken immediately after the Minister, as the Rules say, and we would have finished. Obviously, you have a different way from all the previous Presidents I have met since 2012. Minister, my first question is if you consider, apart from the achievements of the Greek economy and the confidence it has returned, that all 120 percentage points of the interest rate has been reduced in Italy, this is also Mr Mitsotakis' work. I would like an answer, although Mr Mitsotakis has done so. The second question: you have told us that the delays have an increase of 40%. I would like an answer based on what percentage of this 40% increase is the result of increases in previous years, so what we say in English'snowball effect', the phenomenon of the avalanche. Because I think - and you can tell us the number - that 40% is totally misleading. It is the result of previous deadlines where there are increments. The third point I would like to say is for Mr Varoufakis. What did Mr. Varoufakis say in his speech? He said we didn't reduce the debt at all, but we pushed it back and that you could push it back and take it down. I would like you to tell us, Mr Stagira, if you agree with me and SYRIZA, that the short-term debt measures taken after the 2017 Eurogroup, by 2060, reduce the debt as a percentage of GDP and medium- and long-term measures still reduce it by 25 percentage points. Just so we know what the framework is in the debate we are going to have and we are all agreed that we know what numbers we are talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chakaloto. Mr Savvas Anastasiades has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people in the elections of 7 July 2019 gave the New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis a vote of confidence, a vote of hope and perspective. It accepted, in essence, the programme that we proposed to him and the agreement of truth that we proposed to him and instructed us to work effectively so that hope, optimism, progress and growth returns to our country, that the middle class, which in recent years, the years of the crisis, be rekindled as much as ever. The Greek people have given us a clear mandate to improve the everyday life of all Greeks, all citizens. The verdict of the Greek people in the last elections was clear. We are called upon to close the cycle of the crisis, we, the New Democracy, which, every time, in every difficulty in the country, has to bring the country back to progress and development. To take the country forward in a new era, with far fewer taxes, with more investment, with many and good new jobs, with an effective and efficient state, giving opportunities to all citizens. Today, only three weeks after the election, this mandate shall begin to apply by the government. We too honour the confidence shown by the Greek people, without much talk. The government's word from now on will be simple and real. 'We will say much less and we will do much more', the Prime Minister points out, at every opportunity given to him. To speak not in the future in time, but in time, in action and results. That is what today's government's initiative shows, quickly, without much talk. The readiness we displayed surprised many. No one expected the government to make such quick decisions on such important matters. Without delay, we are now moving on to the implementation of the first beneficial measures, the first measures to relieve citizens and society. In fact, this initiative comes a year earlier than the commitment we made to the people in elections. It is coming to alleviate, relieve workers, businesses, entrepreneurs, farmers, young, freelance professionals. We move on to relief measures for all citizens. We're moving on to reducing the EMCDDA, mid-stage, to 22%. No one is excluded from the tax reduction. It's not horizontal. Care is taken for the weakest fellow citizens and the middle class. In particular, for small property up to EUR 60,000, the reduction is 30%. For property from 60,000 to 70,000 euros, the reduction amounts to 27%. For property from 70,000 to 80,000 euros it amounts to 25%. For property from 80,000 to 1,000 000 euros, the reduction amounts to 20%. And in property of over 1,000,000 euros, the reduction amounts to 10%. Four hundred and seventy-three thousand forty taxpayers, who had no benefit from the previous regulation, will benefit from this arrangement. Ladies and gentlemen, there may be different approaches in implementing - and there have been too many approaches in this Chamber - but, at the general principle of reducing the HPAI, no one disagrees, and that seems to be evidenced by the fact that today's bill is accepted by a large majority in Parliament. Therefore, on this initiative of the government, millions of fellow citizens benefit and are immediately relieved of our property owners, the real estate market is stimulated and, of course, the bank portfolio is improved. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. Also, the same law improves and extends the institutional framework of the regulation of twenty-five instalments. The minimum monthly payment is reduced from EUR 30 to EUR 20 in order to allow too many of our fellow citizens, who were unable to enter this arrangement, to join in this arrangement. The interest rate that had so far imposed on the debtors who had joined the regulation with 5% is reduced to 3% with this arrangement. The regulation is widened in as many as a hundred twenty instalments subject to it and all legal persons, which did not exist in the previous regulation, with a basic debt of up to EUR 1 million. Any debtor at any stage of the settlement, if possible, can choose the one-off payment so that someone who has the option to facilitate and exit the setting. Also, for those who are joining and complying with the arrangement, all confiscation measures and forced recovery measures are suspended, which was very important, which was not in the previous regulations. Debtholders who have already entered the regulation of their debts with the current legal framework, with Law 4611/2019, are given the opportunity to choose those who wish to join this regulation, which is, of course, more beneficial. And here, Minister, we have also said so in committee, it would be very fair and very beneficial for this arrangement to have the possibility of including the debtors who had joined the regulation with No.4321. I think this will be very right for these debtors.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u174	Mr. Anastasiades, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u175	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. It is also laid down in the law that those who cannot afford two instalments from the arrangement are exempted. We have asked - and I think other colleagues have asked - to increase the number of doses. The hundred and twenty doses are enough. I conclude by saying that today's bill is just the beginning of the implementation of our programme and the beginning of the country's progress and development. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u176	Thank you. Mr. Xanthopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is my maiden speech in Parliament and you understand that I am also nervous and you will also forgive me some of the Sardam possibly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u178	You'll have more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u179	No, I'll keep him time to give him a sample of writing for my parliamentary term. I've adapted to five minutes. I am caught by a line of Euclid Tsakalotou, who, by addressing the cabinet, said that you would think that we are living John Reid's book "Ten days that have shocked the world", but I am referring to Louisi Pirantello "So, if you think so". Ladies and gentlemen, the figures tell the truth if we include them in a framework in which they operate, because otherwise they clearly falsify the facts. I would like to remind you of an exoneration, that statistic is science, which says that when a man eats two chickens and someone dies of asbesia, on average they have eaten from one chicken. You will understand, therefore, the fundamental contradiction when we appeal for two days - because I have followed the whole procedure yesterday in committee and today - the figures which are going on in the Chamber but which do not have a ground with social reality, what we lawyers call 'cui bono', for whom the benefit is. In this part, the issues raised by SYRIZA are catalysts. For the lowest portion of the benefit 7 euros and 700 euros for the highest portion of the benefits. This range of 80,000 to 1,000,000 assets that have this approach strongly demonstrates a class approach. And I'd like to say something that made me feel like it. You are constantly talking about ideologies and ideologies, and it is clear that we are talking about ideologies. Ideology is confusing, ladies and gentlemen. On ideologies there are programmatic controversies. I understand, of course, the logic of identifying ideology with ideology, because you want to end the ideologies. It is not the end of ideologies, ladies and gentlemen. They are present, they are pointing at us, they are demarcating us on the basis of that, and we are also in this Chamber, but also outside of society. We have made a proposal, which was rejected by the Minister, for the 500,000 or more that there should be no change. This will create a social reserve, which we can use as a society for the sufferers, for the many and below, which we say. You close your ears in this obvious and very sensible proposal. Many underneath have needs that we do not heal in your approach. So what we have said as a criticism of the class dimension of this legislation is true and you cannot object to it with reasonable arguments. The next approach I have to testify is for the hundred and twenty instalments. Of course, it is an extremely useful measure that you are proposing and I would like the House to appreciate that we are both, as SYRIZA and as a programme for opposition, firstly, standing positive. So these elements must be taken into account in the functioning of Parliament and in our political controversy. The proposal we have made - and I have the honour of being the signatories - for HISPIA to be exempted from the islands of less than a thousand inhabitants has not been accepted by the Minister. We believe, however, that it gives the stigma of interest. Above all, it does not remove the legitimacy of making proposals for the next election defeat because, if we adopt the majority opinion, which says 'why did you not do so while you were government', it means that for four years the opposition will have been subject to an institutional silence. This is against both the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and the functioning of the system. You understand that it cannot stand as an argument. I'm hanging up, ladies and gentlemen. We, as SYRIZA, as the left, having a programme opposition target, are voting on, but we do not forget who we are nor who we are against. That's how I imagine we'll go in the rest of the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u180	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Tsavdaridis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u181	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are coming to the plenary today to discuss a draft law by the New Democracy Government, to reduce HNPH and regulate the hundreds of twenty instalments, which opens up a new era in the governance of the country, a time that will be characterized by the consistency of speeches and works, which has been tragically missed in previous years, by the rapid design, implementation and control of the necessary cuts, reforms, but also policies, which the place needs so much to make the leap forward, but also by attempting to curb an old system of logic, the 'no bore', and the establishment of a new policy of everyday life, rationalisation, the measurable result, evaluation. In this light, this bill, which comes only fourteen days after the vow of the new Parliament, and even a year earlier than the election commitment of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, finally fills with hope the afflicted sacrifices of Greek society, a society that is finally seeing the parliament legislate on specific measures that benefit its pocket, policies that relieve, which heal, which correct, that are mobilizing, which they house. The reduction of HPAI by 22% in the mid-term is accepted by society and business with deep satisfaction, a reduction from which no one is excluded, while at the same time special attention is paid to the weakest citizens and to the middle-class, namely those categories of citizens that SYRIZA has dissolved with its economic policy, a direct and deep satisfaction for millions of owners and a rapid stimulus to the property market from a game of Prime Minister, who let SYRIZA frustrate uncomfortable excuses for supposedly favorable property owners. And I'm explaining: Yesterday in the Finance Committee, SYRIZA was not the Don Quixote who was chasing windmills, it was Don Quixote who was chasing himself. Without any serious argument you spoke, gentlemen of SYRIZA, about a class division of HISBIA reduction. You have even reached the point of discovering and supposedly risk of changing the measure after 2019. Ladies and gentlemen of Officerial Response, your argument is in the past. We now draw up the future with a mandate from society. I would simply stress that, firstly, the large-scale property owners you call for are only fourteen thousand eight hundred taxpayers, while small-scale owners are over four million, who will save up to 250 euros for their pockets from last year. Secondly, with this arrangement of about five hundred thousand taxpayers who did not have any benefit from your earlier regulation, they will benefit, while about three hundred thousand taxpayers will benefit more from the previous regulation. Third, the measure is permanent, will not change and start from 2019. Instead of jeopardising, scrubbing, we call on you to assist in the effort of social regeneration that we have already started, as it would be appropriate to stand by our decision to improve the institutional framework for regulating the hundreds of twenty doses, instead of exhausting your argument on sterile chips, which are talking about a new arrangement, supposedly retourism and supposedly a small lifting. Because, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, with the new arrangements, we are broadening the basis for debtors, as legal persons with a basic debt of up to EUR 1 million can now also be subject to a minimum of EUR 30 to EUR 20, so that more debtors can be consistent. We are reducing the interest rate from 5% to 3%, while motivating legal persons to choose a lower number of instalments to earn a large reduction in increment and interest, which is up to 100%. We are suspending seizures and forced collection measures for those who are part of and remain in the arrangement. We are strengthening the revenues in the state funds and, indirectly, improving the bank's portfolio for the benefit of its own entrepreneurship. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So, in practical terms, a company with an initial debt of EUR 90,000, which now has a debt of EUR 120,000 - I will need two minutes, Mr President, to complete - to date, gentlemen of SYRIZA, it has been possible to regulate the debt in twenty-four instalments with a monthly amount of EUR 6 000, and with the new regulation of the New Democracy, the instalment will be EUR 1.300 per month. If you consider these retourisms, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, let me say that you live in a parallel universe of yours. So let go of the barren criticism. With promises and genograms, political rationality is not possible. The dynamics, moreover, of determination and ultimately the change of attitude that we bring as a new government have already created a positive climate, both in international markets, where the cost of borrowing is lower - the ten-year bonds have a yield of less than 2% for the first time in history - and in society itself, as bank deposits have only increased by 1.5 billion euros in June and immediately after the European elections. And one last thing: The bill we are discussing came to Parliament in the form of urgency. Why is that? Because the reduction of HPAI should create those conditions so that there is a direct adjustment of the electronic clearing system so that the services can make it possible for them to post new reduced clearing notes on taxpayers' accounts at Taxisnet by 16 September. Also, with regard to the favorable regulation of a hundred and twenty instalments, there should be a rapid change in the electronic application through which tax debtors apply to be subject to the new regulation. This must be done in the summer at the benefit of the citizens and they will be done, because the problems do not understand the summers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u182	Mr. Tsavdaridis, you spent the two minutes you asked for me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u183	Mr President, I shall conclude. They do not understand from summers the late public debts, which would supposedly be zero in August 2018 and each month increased, do not understand from summer to summer the late private debts, which have increased by 46% since the end of 2014, but do not understand from summer and holidays nor the New Democracy Government, which came to scan the dust from the Nirvana of the previous four and a half years of SYRIZA's tragic governance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u184	Mr. SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think I am the last speaker, and in some way I see a very large presence of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, which prejudges that its leader will be here as well. In any case, I may be a little lucky to hear from you, even though we disagree greatly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u186	Your people won't hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government is bringing this mini-tax legislation as the first bill, obviously because there are deadlines, but obviously because it wants to give a positive signal to its electorate, especially to those who voted for them. And I say to the bones of the electorate, because they are, in particular, addressed to them in the large properties, over five hundred thousand of the value of the assets which are directed at the large part of the financial cost. Of course, there are serious questions which have not been answered and which have been put to you by Mr Chakalotos, as well as by other speakers on our part. The financial costs do not explain where you find them. You will explain, of course, why you will have to go to September - October, whether you want to or will not - where the extra financial costs are from when you were accusing us of budgetary derailment and improperness in the short term before the elections. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] However, do the financial costs find it from the recruitment freeze - is a first measure I have heard and I want answers, if possible - to health? In particular, I was informed that the so-called service changes, with two circulars of the Minister of Health, recruitments - transfers, etc. they're freezing. And this has been a reaction to the recruitment of doctors and nurses to regional hospitals, such as the Santorini Hospital, which has developed a competition since October 2018, has passed since the approval of the AACC, and today these people cannot be recruited, cannot complete their recruitment, since this mandate has been given to two Circulars of the Ministry of Health. Is it, then, a way to start finding the financial area? Second question: why do you put, although the debate has taken place, a single scale for a discount of EUR 80,000 to EUR 1 million? Can you address yourself in the same way and give the same discount to this huge range, from 80,000 euros to 1 million euros? Why are you also giving property worth more than EUR 1 million? We say it again, because that's reality. Essentially EUR 22 million is being given to people too rich, to people who have more than EUR 1 million. And the latter: If you do the calculations - and you have made them at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Stakoura -, 49% of the additional financial costs that you have put in addition to us - we had voted for HNVY with EUR 260 million, you put EUR 200-205 million now - the EUR 90 million is aimed at 3.5% of the taxpayers who have property. Is that social justice policy? Is that the policy for many? On the contrary, you give a lot to the few. That is what our President, Alexis Tsipras, told you in the programme statements, and that is confirmed by the first bill. On the other hand, our amendment, which you did not accept, puts a gradual relief to the property of up to EUR 500,000. We had voted for reductions by 200,000 euros. We're taking it to 500,000 euros after you found the financial area. The second issue is the issue of the hundred and twenty instalments. Obviously, it is positive that the issues relating to changing the dose from EUR 30 to EUR 20 and reducing the interest charges from 5% to 3% are positive. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, give me one more minute. The differentiation from the EUR 2 million turnover we introduced in the EUR 1 million basic debt has a great differential and favours the much larger companies, without guaranteeing the viability criteria of each business. And I'm closing. We had tabled an amendment to exemption from HNVO to the inhabitants of the small islands with a population of less than a thousand inhabitants, to the permanent residents and to the property situated on these islands, to the small islands. You turned it down. I would ask you, now and again, and the Prime Minister, to accept this amendment. This amendment and low cost has and gives these people who guard Thermopylae and our remote small islands, but also in the other islands, a breath, so that they can actually live in these places. These people shouldn't pay us, but we should pay them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u188	It is called in Stepma, MP Artis of the New Republic, Mr. Stylos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u189	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is directly implementing its election commitments. For us, for the New Democracy, for the Government, for the Lord Mitsotakis there is no day lost. We have an obligation towards Greek citizens to honour the people's mandate and to be worthy of their trust. Even greater is our obligation to make their lives better, with direct results initiatives. This includes both the first bill we are discussing today, with the new tax provisions, the reductions to the ENPI and the possibility given for the hundreds of twenty instalments, and the second bill, which relates to the final state, but also to the third bill, the multi-legislative bill that follows and relates to the abolition of asylum, violence and lawlessness in universities, the governance of the municipalities and the issues that improve government work in individual ministries. Let us not hide, ladies and gentlemen, behind barren controversy which leads nowhere. We have a positive motionum in front of us. Only with the change of government and the prospect of the new era of Kyriakos Mitsotakis the country's borrowing cost was considerably reduced, the ordinary citizens trust our banking system, the deposits of natural persons increased by EUR 1 billion in June alone, according to the Bank of Greece's figures. We are very close to the definitive lifting of capital controls, the dowry of SYRIZA - Varoufakis negotiations, which turned our banking system and economy back years. Ladies and gentlemen, a new period opens for the country, and this momentum must be exploited. This is what we want to do with our initiatives and the bill that is being discussed today, to reduce the tax burden for all Greeks, but mainly for the middle class, to release forces and resources, to send a message to the citizens of this country that there is a better prospect for their lives, other than the storm of taxes and contributions from the previous four years and that citizens deserve more than the poverty and stagnation benefits of the previous government. SYRIZA, in his attempt to make opposition, resorts to - let me speak - to misguided points. We hear the same millennial tape, "The neoliberal New Democracy, the Government of the technocrats, the government that serves the interests of the few and the chosen ones, which comes to give many and few to many," we hear that the bill we are debating today has nothing more to add than previous announcements. The best answer to all of this is - you know - the very reality, the numbers, they never lie. The citizens who listen to us will take the clearing house of HNPH next month, September 2019. About half a million of our fellow taxpayers did not have any benefit under the previous regulations and will benefit by this arrangement. I'm talking about the owners from 200,000 euros and over. Also, a million three thousand fellow citizens will benefit more from the previous regulation and I am referring to the property of EUR 80,000 to EUR 200,000. The 10% reduction in large estates over 1 million euros concerns only 5% of total relief. We are talking, in other words, only about fifteen thousand taxpayers. A total of three million nine hundred thousand of our fellow citizens will benefit from this arrangement. In the hundred and twenty instalments, for example, I mention that the regulation is being extended to all legal persons having a basic debt of up to EUR 1 million, the minimum monthly payment from EUR 30 to EUR 20 is being reduced from 5% to 3%, seizures and enforcement measures are suspended. The debtor may at any stage of the adjustment choose to pay off the remainder of the doses or to migrate to a lower number of doses. Ladies and gentlemen, all of this is not about the few and chosen, but about the many, the simple worker, the employee, the farmer of the countryside, the Greek region, the small and medium-sized businessman, who is squeezed by the taxes and has the right to make a new start. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In a minute, Mr President. This is all about the middle-class, so chased by the previous government, to remember it only by election. That's just the beginning. It will follow a series of other legislative initiatives. The ministers have already mentioned what will follow in the programming statements and our President. We have an obligation to move quickly, with efficiency and sensitivity to our weakest fellow citizens. We have an obligation to move from Greece to Greece to Greece of opportunities, to Greece of production, to Greece of entrepreneurship, to Greece of work, and that is what we will do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u190	The Prime Minister, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, nine days after the vote on the government's programme statements, the House is already discussing and voting within the next few hours one of the first three bills to be passed by 9 August and one of the ten bills that will be our compass in the next four years. It is our quick response to citizens' problems, which cannot wait, the proof that we had and have a plan, which brings immediate, tangible results, and our first seal on the new progress page that our country is now required to write. From this point of view, this bill could also be described as the identity of the new government, because, firstly, it responds to our pre-election commitment to alleviate the Greeks from heavy taxation, and even earlier than expected. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Secondly, because, by reducing ENPIA and significantly improving the one hundred twenty-dollar plan, it also favours millions of households, but also professionals and businesses. Thirdly, because the draft law which we will shortly be voting on has a clear, clear social sign, with studied forecasts, concerning all taxpayers, but, in particular, the weakest ones. In other words, it serves the objectives we have set from the outset, respecting our promises: the regeneration of the productive middle class, the revitalization of the real estate market, the change of a mixture of economic policy for new investments, growth and many good jobs and, ultimately, the growth of the national product so that this can be translated into greater income for each Greek and every Greek. Ladies and gentlemen, the two main speeches of this first bill, I think, have been extensively analysed by both the ministers and our rapporteur and by the honourable Members who have spoken and who have now been understood by the citizens. The first intervention cuts HPAI by 22% in 2019, with an additional cost of EUR 205 million. No one is excluded from this brave relief, but a relief that escalates fairly depending on the value of the property. In small estates up to 60,000 euros, the reduction is 30%. For values from 60,000 to 70,000 euros it is 27%. For real estate worth up to 80,000 euros, the decrease goes to 25%. And for real estate of between 80,000 euros and a million euros - and these are, in the end, most - HNVIA is falling by 20%, while for very large property the reduction is less, it is 10%. This means that some four million fellow citizens will immediately see, within the next six weeks, when their cleansing has been sent, alleviations to the taxation of their real estate, among them, and almost five hundred thousand owners, who were completely excluded from the election diversions of SYRIZA, as well as almost three hundred thousands of our fellow citizens, who, by our own regulation, will see a significantly greater benefit. The result will be a significant relief for citizens, a stimulation of the real estate market, and an improvement in the bank portfolio. At the same time, our second intervention, as we had undertaken in the run-up to the elections, broadens and improves the settlement of debts to the public through the one hundred and twenty-dollar system. The interest rate currently borne by businesses and households falls from 5% to 3%, obviously for reasons of equality, i.e. as much as the public interest rate on its debts to private individuals. The minimum monthly payment, as we were committed, falls from EUR 30 to EUR 20 per month, thereby favouring many more debtors. Legal persons will henceforth be subject to the arrangement with a basic debt of up to EUR 1 million. Options and incentives are also given to ensure that consistent debtors have access to additional discounts and exemptions. This means that it is finally relaxed by the dungeon that drowned millions of our fellow citizens in the years of the crisis. And most importantly, we may be linking the new arrangement for the hundred and twenty instalments to the unleashing of the accounts that were held in confiscation and forced measures. We give breath and freedom of movement to businessmen. The result: Entrepreneurs and professionals are again gaining a new opportunity, a second opportunity to be active again, and the state will now have a clear road, a roadmap, to gradually increase its revenues, but certainly. But I would like to stress one more point. The Minister for Finance also stressed it, and I want to make it quite clear and clear. This regulation will also be the last. It must therefore be exploited by all our fellow citizens, because there will be no more. Very soon, as the Minister of Finance has promised, we will bring in a permanent regulation mechanism. I stress that it will not have the same positive features. I therefore call on all debtors to take advantage of this last opportunity, because there will be no further regulation so generously. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat that my objective today is not so much to explain the arrangements of the bill or to highlight its social face. I have taken the floor, of course, because I would like to honour the parliamentary procedure. It is the first bill of the new government to be voted on in plenary. But I am taking the floor, above all, to highlight the political direction of our initiatives. The first tax reductions promoted by the government are not only a pre-election commitment. The immediate reduction in HISPIA is not just a strong response to those who promised to abolish it, but eventually increased it. And the new debt repayment system does not come as another alternative to a chronic problem. All these parallel actions, along with the new tax law that follows, form a coherent framework of economic action with specific measures and implementation timetables, but with clear social and political aiming: to liberate the productive forces of the place, to create new wealth, to which all Greeks will have a share. It is precisely this new political vision, which creates an understandable discomfort in opposition, because with old tools of thought it is difficult to capture our way of operation and so it often characterizes, I would simply say, "technical state" the one who seeks the result. He's looking for our political stigma on party maps that don't exist anymore. The same easy and simple exercises a spasmodic criticism, when for maintenance, when for modern titration. The answer, ladies and gentlemen, is self-reliable Greece with strong growth, a slogan that condenses our own political vision, a view that replaces traditional micro-participatory practice with what I call "modernly applied policy", and goes beyond familiar party borders. Societies are now very complex, to be interpreted in class terms of the 19th century. Reality is indeed causing inequalities, but they are much more complicated than what we have learned in the past. The technological eruption, the fluctuations in globalisation, the climate crisis creates completely new data and these magnify the problems of countries like Greece, which have lived away for years. The times therefore require radical thought and, above all, effective actions. That is why these two elements will henceforth pave the way for the whole of our policy. So this bill is not just a first parliamentary initiative by the new government. It is the first step-by-step shot of an economic perception with a specific political raw material. Its root is growth in the growth of national wealth in favour of many. Her strap is always the production middle class. Its natural environment is its 21st century and its political sign is progress. Its aim is always the light Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, the country is making the first steady, but certainly, steps to finally leave the experience of the crisis behind. Already, the State gains the confidence of the markets, borrowed at the lowest interest rate in the euro era. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Today's review of the European Commission finds something extremely critical, in my opinion, that the economic climate index from 101 units in June was eroded at 105.3 units in July, that is, only within a few weeks. I would like to point out to you that this is the highest level in Greece since 2008, before the crisis hit us. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That means, yes, our growth can achieve the 3% to 4% target we have set. Our policy, however, also gains the confidence of society, which sees a government which, unlike all previous ones, has promised less to do more and faster, and we are only at the beginning. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The big tax reform is about to come, which will simplify procedures, reduce taxes on every production activity, give bold incentives for productive investment, for foreign investment, also mobilize Greek capital, will relieve the banking system, introduce e-money in our transactions. This is a very important section. Two are the words - the key to our policy: the result and confidence. The first results of our policy, within just three weeks, are already visible to the citizens, while the country is starting to be surrounded by a grid of confidence, which makes us think that we are finally leaving behind the stone years of the crisis. And when the markets trust us, why should our partners not trust us? Mostly - and this is the most important - I ask that the Greeks trust us. They serve our bills and our decisions and in their own vision we remain militant. We deserve a better Greece and we can do it. I won't stop saying that, because we won't stop going forward until we go back to the country high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u192	Mr. Chakalotos has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr President. I would like, Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Stakoura, to do my own resoume and what is the outcome of this debate. I'll say five things, which I think we'll all agree on. Firstly, we brought a EUR 265 million relief, and you put more than EUR 205 million on it. In other words, your marginal contribution is about 0.1% of GDP, so we have a package of 470 million euros. The second thing we can agree on is that your marginal contribution to the poorest, with property below EUR 60,000, is zero. That is, from the EUR 205 million that you add to the EUR 265 million, not a single euro goes to less than EUR 60,000. Thirdly, we can agree on the following: for the very rich - we have had a debate, I do not know how much you, with Mr Stagiora, have followed with the parliamentary representative - we say that for over 500,000 euros and over 1 million euros we do not understand the principle of distributive justice it is the one that says that these 90 million euros, that is 50% of your marginal contribution - above what we had - must go to such rich people. And because you know from social sciences, the principle of opportunity costs - we are not talking now about whether it is a large or small number - it is where that money could go. We say instead of giving EUR 20 million to the fourteen thousand, this could be a health centre or a relief in medium-scale layers. Fourthly, we can agree with the EUR 205 million, namely a piece of EUR 100 million, going in the middle, as you and we would define them. That's why we're positive about the bill. Fifth thing we can all agree is that what you were telling us before, that we have destroyed the economy, that there is a memorandum, that there is enhanced supervision, that is not true, because you have been able to keep the EUR 265 million that we had, not only to add EUR 205 million. So these five things I think are an honest and fair compromise and a description of what we have done today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chakaloto.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u195	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u196	Minister Staikoras wants to give an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u197	Mr Colleagues, the policy is not cleared up. Politics is when you say the reality with arguments. So we agree on some things. We said we would reduce taxes from 2020 onwards. We've been reducing taxes since 2019. So we have to agree on that. Secondly, we agree that you have changed the goal posts of the middle class. I've got the minutes when you brought the arrangement for reducing HISBIA by 10%. You said that by 200,000 euros they are all middle-class. Today you are telling us that you are voting on the bill of the New Democracy Government, because the middle class has shifted to 500,000 euros. Eventually the goal posts of the middle class where are they for you? We say that 86% of the benefit, i.e. 400 million of the 465 million, is for citizens with real estate from EUR 1 to EUR 500,000. And these are low incomes and middle class. Let me remind you - to agree - that there is a supplementary tax of more than 250,000. So these citizens are also charged with another tax on real estate. I guess we can agree on some other elements, which I always like to testify to. To agree that the economy would go much better if you were not to come to the country's governance. These are not estimates of ours. They are estimates of the European Commission. Let's agree that the economy would go better if you didn't bump private debt for four years. In other words, citizens' debts to tax and insurance funds. To agree that the economy would go better, because competitiveness was improving in the country, until SYRIZA arrived and we lose competitiveness. To agree - I suppose you will agree - that you committed August 2018 to zeroing the public's debts to the private sector. And these ones are growing every month. We should agree that the Public Investment Programme should be implemented and for your days it has fallen to the lowest level of the last decade. And I guess we can agree on something else. Today, as the Prime Minister said, the economic climate in Greece has improved and passed for the first time since 2014 the European average. And I'm guessing - I don't know how much you're gonna agree, did you agree up to ten days ago with this person - that all of this, that is, the first is cowarding, positive samples for the Greek economy, where it's due? It is because of the economic prospects. And you know very well that there was a statement recently, Mr. Regling's interview, which said that the markets have confidence in the economic policies of the new government. With the same person you spoke to and agreed 15 days ago. So, if you want to agree, we can agree on them too. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] By the way, because I heard SYRIZA's colleague saying that they don't forget who they represent and who they have across, I suppose, because you're a new colleague, you weren't in this Parliament, in which some things were voted on over the last five years. Twenty-nine new taxes, mainly indirect taxes, were passed, which hit the lowest incomes. The previous government voted to abolish the CSCE, voted for seventeen cuts in pensions and cuts in new pensions. So let's see who represents what! This government, the Government of New Democracy, represents and will represent the middle class and lower incomes. We will always operate in terms of economic efficiency and social justice. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Last comment, Mr Chakaloto. Previously, you spoke with Mr Varoufakis and said whether I would agree with you or with him on the sustainability of the debt. That's a little weird, but anyway... First of all, we must make it clear that Greece has had a long-standing deficit and debt problem. He had timeless twin deficits and debts. The roots of the problem must be sought many decades ago. She's not here. The previous government, in 2011-2012, made significant interventions in terms of debt and debt profile. Charity period, interest rates, bond maturity. It has therefore significantly improved the sustainability of the public debt. That's not what I'm appraising or you. Institutions assess this through some reports called debt sustainability reports. In addition, the Commission notes that the debt debt debt is not the same as the debt debt that has been incurred in the past, and that the debt is the same as the debt debt that has been incurred in the past. Documents are publicly available. What happened next? Then you came. And what was the big difference? The big difference is that the estimated growth for the economy of 1,9% by 2060 fell to 1%. The viability of the public debt was thus significantly burdened. And so, yes, some good speeches have been made over your days. We have no more strategy and no more tactics as opposition and as government. It was necessary to intervene, but not enough to be able to say again that the debt is absolutely viable. Why? Because the country should achieve a high, sustainable, sustainable rate of economic growth. We, New Democracy, have a clear strategic plan of how it will achieve high and sustainable economic growth, the creation of many, good, quality jobs and the strengthening of social cohesion: by changing the social policy mix, by implementing structural changes, by strengthening liquidity in the real economy. We don't triumph. We are moving forward - a step with seriousness, determination and self-confidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u198	Thank you very much to the Minister of Finance, Mr Stavoura. Mr. Claus Gregoriadis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u199	Thank you very much, Mr President. I won't use them. I guess one's gonna be too much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am forced to speak. Believe me, I had no intention at this time, given that it was heard again by the last Member - spokesman of the New Democracy, before the Prime Minister, the well-known view, which we have heard two - three times since we swore to the Greek Parliament, about the allegedly negotiation of SYRIZA - Varoufakis and the damage or the costs that it brought to the Greek economy. To restore the truth, since we are in a sacred space, such as the Greek Parliament, I will say three things. Firstly, as we all know, Mr Varoufakis was Minister of Finance of a country that had a Prime Minister. He was a political leader and basically took all the serious decisions. And that was Mr. Alexis Tsipras. Secondly, as Mr Varoufakis has also been well-known and not disguised even though he has been lately published in his book 'Ignores defeated' in second-hand detail, he took the burden of this negotiation, after he had agreed with the Prime Minister, Mr Alexis Tsipras, that if the negotiation would lead to a dead end, at least the break would be invoked with the institutions, if not the break. That, in other words, the issue of removing us from the euro was in no case a taboo that is not being discussed. Because if you go to a taboo deal, which is not discussed, you don't go to a negotiation. You're going to surrender. Thirdly and above all: the Prime Minister at that time, Alexis Tsipras, when he decided to configure - his legitimate right - was not to say the opposite - actually pulled the carpet under his feet by emptied him completely. So I close by saying that we would know what the cost of negotiating Baroufakis is or of gain and redemption from the negotiation of Yiannis Varoufakis only if he was allowed to manage and the threat of breaking with the institutions, which was not done. To restore the truth. Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, too. The President of the Movement of Change, Mr. Fofi Gennimata, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u201	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the provisions concerning the ENPI and the regulations for the hundred and twenty instalments have declared that we are voting in favour of them. It is also included in the ELLAD in our proposal. For many months now, since about December, we have tabled a motion for a resolution to this effect in this House. And you know most of us that we have also been very hard to criticise the SYRIZA Government in the previous period, because the hundred and twenty doses had just become twenty-four especially for the weakest. I must, however, point out that this regulation on ENVIRONMENT concerns 2019. This does not ensure that the reduction will be applied for the coming years. It is clear that the fragmentary relief arrangements for households and businesses, however much as is strictly necessary, do not address the problems, because they are quite simply not part of an integrated plan for the development and reconstruction of the country. It also remains the crucial question: is there the necessary financial space? For as long as it is true, ladies and gentlemen, the dangerous to the economy and society, Mr Tsipras' commitments to the unbearable primary surpluses, as long as the target of 3.5%, which is a loop in the country's neck, there are risks of new cuts in the Public Investment Programme and new discounts in the social state. Without the new negotiation and the substantial changes to these objectives from 3.5% to 2% of GDP, it is impossible to implement a new mix of economic policy, and ultimately it is impossible to liberalise the necessary resources, which will ensure the country's exit from the crisis, with growth and social cohesion. Mr Mitsotakis has been diligently avoiding placing himself on the issue of these objectives. We have made it clear in time and too many times so far that obsession with these same objectives means sticking to the same policy. In other words, it means austerity, extermination, collapse of the public health system, deterioration of social costs and ultimately of the services offered to the citizens. It is obvious that under the great pressure we have exerted all this time, Mr Mitsotakis was forced to open the issue yesterday from Cyprus. First of all, positive. But the words are not enough. Today, as long as the Greek people ever expect specific acts and integrated solutions. So it's time, Mr. Mitsotakis, to speak cleanly. We have made it clear that we will contribute to this necessary new negotiation with partners and lenders. After all, we have done so with great responsibility and consistency since the summer of 2015 when we have been in a new crisis so far. But there is one big issue. In what terms and conditions? With what commitments for changes and reforms does the government believe that it can achieve this objective, namely the new negotiation and the change in the target for primary surpluses? I address you directly today the challenge of opening up your papers and moving forward into a public debate, from here, from Parliament, with all the political forces. There is no room, ladies and gentlemen, for discussions behind the Greek people. There is much more room for undertakings to remove basic rights for workers, pensioners and labour. Changes and reforms must be of a progressive nature and, of course, the acceptance of society, because only then can they be successful, free the country from what is consuming it, cope with public interests and interests, strengthen transparency, the exodus and the credibility of the state, the speed of justice, and guarantee a stable and efficient tax system. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), in writing. - (FR) The Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party supports the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the Group I say this because, unfortunately, you did not make any specific commitment and did not give us any specific answer to our questions during the debate on the government's programming declarations. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to refer to our proposal, which our rapporteur, Mr Costas Scandalidis, has already tabled earlier. We propose a 50% reduction of HISPIAN for property belonging to traditional and preserved settlements, as well as for individual properties classified as a keeper. Also, at the same reduction, of 50%, building in bioclimates, with an energy identity and a positive eco-print. Let us not forget that the excessive cost of maintenance and renovation of these property is multiple to the equivalent of the rest, and that such an arrangement will work very positively, both for life in these settlements and for the necessary measures to protect the environment. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement will vote against today's amendment by the Government, which alters the terms of the law and the agreement on the development of the metropolitan pole of Greek - Saint Cosma. Until yesterday the relevant Minister of Government assured us by saying: "We do not intend to change the law, its agreement and its terms for or against the company. We will implement the law passed by the Tsipras Government." It is quite clear that this amendment only serves the interests of the investor, since more favourable conditions are laid down for this than those currently in place. So there is a major issue. We want the big and contagious investments in the place. That is why we are in favour of investing in the Greek and we have been very critical of the previous SYRIZA government, which was unacceptably blocking its realization. However, investment presupposes State credibility and respect for the terms of the agreements and investors. When the terms change in this way, after a holiday, then there is a serious question of credibility and we give a very negative signal internationally, a sign that we will find before us, the public will find it when new investments are made. To conclude, therefore, I have one thing to say: withdraw the amendment and proceed with the work, on the basis of the terms agreed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u202	Thank you to the President of the Change Movement, Mr. Gennimata. Mr Vassilis Kegeroglu has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr President. We heard the Prime Minister talk about a number of issues. He focused on the fact that he sees a new field where, as he said a little - there will be no more conflict of ideas and there will be no different ideas, as the landscape has changed. There will be no confrontation of politicians, so there will be no political composition, because this will not be in the modern landscape. I believe that these are thoughts within the euphoria of the days because of the'milk month', because they really run counter to the function of democracy itself. New Democracy belongs to the European People's Party, as we know, with the specific policies for Europe and for each country. Given the existence of social conflicts - which it considers impossible to address - it has policies on economic aid, development and automation, from there on, through market rules on how society works. On the other hand, we have SYRIZA, which belongs to the Radicals of Europe and which, in fact, have the same perception, namely that the economy works on its own, produces its own wealth, without there being any plan, and the only concern that a government needs to have, and one policy is to over-tax this economy to manage the problems and the poor. Look, these are different concepts and they are very different from the needs of the country, and that is why it is as timely as the policy of the Change Movement, which is talking about sustainable development that includes policies that have to do with the climate crisis, of course, but also with the production of new wealth through a plan, which is not just about large investments, but all small and medium-sized ones. A sustainable development plan that is linked to and consistent with social justice, which means that it creates better conditions and contributes to improving the standard of living. Yeah, well, we have different opinions and that's not bad. They are your views and our views, and what we need today is to make a composition for the policies necessary for the country by adopting policies and other parties. It is not a shame to adopt a government proposal from the opposition. This is democracy. It is not democracy that is abolished, it must work better. And this is my opposition to what the Prime Minister said. We have heard a lot of things in the programme statements. However, we have not heard an integrated plan for development and social justice, although we have often heard the terms of 'development and social cohesion', but only as a headline. It is the bill that we are discussing today in fragmentary terms, because it does not clearly include an overall tax policy, a tax system that the government could have discussed from the outset. The argument that in the next few days the HICP clearers could have been avoided in various ways and that the system already operated differently and that clearing agents were issued in order to pay the HICP with the new prices. However, I would like to make a reference to taxation, which, to be a tool for development and a body for social justice, should have three features and one condition. The three features are: Firstly, the unfavourable proportion of indirect and direct taxes should be changed. The indirect taxes imposed by SYRIZA, of course, which are borne by the large majority of the people, including the weak, must be drastically reduced. Weaker pays the same as the mighty. This must be changed and it is the first condition. The second condition, apart from the universal reduction of taxes, is that, apart from the degression of overtaxation imposed in the country, there should also be a further reduction in taxes linked to the creation of jobs. We have said a simple thought: for every EUR 1,000 wage and non-wage costs the company will be exempted from taxes for EUR 1,500. The third feature, which must have a fair tax system, is that it must be linked to growth, to investment in the company itself, of course, in order to expand, modernise, to increase its activities. This means reintroducing a tax-free reserve, it means exemptions from specific taxes linked to investment and so on. I now come to the premise. A prerequisite for a fully functioning fair tax system with the above characteristics in the context of a development plan is the renegotiation of the high surpluses. That's a prerequisite. On 7 July, Mr Mitsotakis, I think the Greek people voted to leave the country's neck. Not only did the SYRIZA government vote to leave, it did not just vote for you to come. The country has voted to change its policy. You must give a clear answer if today you are able to change this policy or if you want to change this policy, because we can all, together with a national negotiating team, now that the people's mandate is fresh, renegotiate these high surpluses for 2020 and 2021. What does it mean that 2020-2021 should be trusted and come in 2022, 2023 and then see what is going on? But there will be no growth if this noose continues on the neck of the country and society. I'll say two things about this bill, and I'll close it. In addition to the proposals that have already been heard about the reduction of 50% of ISPA in specific categories, such as traditional settlements, buildings and bioliquids, we must see the extension of 30% to the middle-ownership. I don't understand. Do you think the middle property is big, the one that's over 60,000 or over 80,000, and you think you're making a smaller cut? Thirty percent. That was your election commitment. This can be done now and be an element of social justice. You need to see the arrangement with the parcels to be definitively exempted from the additional tax. With regard to the regulation of 20 doses, I would like to say this. Look, you do not include, Minister, the possibility of including those who consistently comply with the hundred-dollar adjustment. These people, who now have a hundred-dollar adjustment, pay a interest rate of about 6%. Aren't they going to have a reduction in interest rates? Why are the consequents of the 100 doses excluded? That's a matter. And the second thing is that you need to change logic over being the last date of September 30. And I'll tell you why. Aren't you telling me, is it only the debtor's will to pay or the possibilities and conditions to pay? Until 30 September, do you think the difficulties of overtaxation, which has been brought about by the stagnation of the previous political situation, will have been removed so that they can fulfil their obligations? Oh, no. So it's contradictory what you're saying. If these negative situations are removed by 30 September, then we don't have to do anything. It should therefore be foreseen that it will also be possible for the regulation to be incorporated into the regulation after 30 September, but at a burden. You should either pay those which you had to pay from 30 September to 10 December, for example, as an advance or in some ways to have red. But not that there will never be any other arrangement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u204	Please hang up, Mr. Kegeroglu. You're far beyond time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u205	Mr Colleague, thank you very much for the tolerance of time. I have one last point to make. The proposal from the ESDP, which has been presented to you in detail for people with disabilities, must be adopted, even at the last minute. You must see with sensitivity this category of our fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u206	Mr Stavros Kalogannis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u207	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the new government's first tax bill, which contains very positive regulations for all our fellow citizens. In particular, the regulation of the reduction of natural persons, which has been in force since this year and which introduces the draft law we are discussing, relieves all our fellow citizens, as no one is excluded from its scope. Care is taken for the weakest and middle class, namely those who have been most affected by SYRIZA - ANEL governments over the last four years. The provisions on 20 instalments substantially improve and broaden the existing institutional framework. Among other things, the minimum monthly payment at EUR 20 is reduced to 5% to 3%, and all legal persons with a basic debt of up to EUR 1 million are suspended for the purposes of the arrangement. These are very important regulations which will be implemented immediately, namely all our fellow citizens will benefit immediately from them. I would like to congratulate the Ministry of Finance's political leadership, which acts as Prime Minister Mitsotakis's pro-familiar programme commitments. We have tabled a number of proposals, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, during the debate on the draft law in the relevant Committee on Economic Affairs, to improve the rules we are debating. As far as HNPH is concerned, there are some cases of great injustice for owners of certain categories, such as owners of property in traditional settlements, where it is a key factor. This factor plays a key role in calculating the objective value of real estate and, of course, HISPIA. I've given you, Minister, a detailed memorandum. Please warmly see and face this injustice. The second case is the owners of non-electricalised real estate. It is unfair to charge property owners with HICPs, when their property is not only untapped, but is not even powered. For the hundred and twenty instalments the proposals, which have been tabled, are many. For example, I mention the possibility of reducing debt increases. And I would ask the Minister very much in this respect, whatever margin he has to take out and include them in the final draft law. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, the arrangements discussed are very positive. The government shows in practice that it observes what it has announced, and this even more increases its credibility towards our fellow citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the principle of this legislature is very positive. I wholeheartedly hope that the Ministry of Finance and the Government will continue in the same direction as our fellow citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, too, Mr. Kalogannis. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement Mr. Loverdos has the floor for three minutes to close the meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u209	Perhaps, Mr President, there is much to be done. I take the floor because, when I spoke as a Parliamentary representative, the Minister of Finance came from Lamia and addressed to you with a number of arguments, because yesterday in the committee you asked yourself, when the opposition put forward proposals in addition to the measures which it brings to today's minus bill, if there is ultimately a budget space, or if there is not, making an indirect criticism of the opposition, which wanted to be the specific draft law not so small but also to include other arrangements, as Mrs Gennimata said, Mr Scandalides and I in my speech, Mr Kegeroglou now and other colleagues. Listen. The issue was raised when the Prime Minister announced these measures in plenary in the debate on the timetable statements. We were expecting you to give the necessary clarification. Looking very carefully at what you said, I can see and move back to the Chamber that you were too optimistic and as a single element, but of what we expected to hear, you mentioned how much the reduction in VAT in the tourism sector in 2013 contributed to having fewer entrepreneurs who avoid paying VAT. You have tabled a relevant table in the plenary debate. No other references were made. We, however, expect to hear from you what is or is not there for a financial area and how wide this area is. We do not expect the newspaper report to find out what the reality is, because they also reproduce the report provided by some ministers who often do not know and which contain accurate data. For example, a phrase of the Government representative, Mr Petsa, was strongly reproduced in 2020 that there is a financial area, in any case there are revenues that were not provided and I made reference to the bonds of the European Central Bank and the European Union's central banks of EUR 1.600 000. I said that this revenue, as we all know, goes directly to debt. It is not public budget revenue, so there is a need for a negotiation here which you will or will not do. However, the more you assure us that the primary surpluses for 2019 and 2020 are what we know, both our question, Minister, is reasonable. So what were we expecting from you? And I think today is lost, because you are not going to answer what you have not said in so many of your speeches. However, what still remains a question - and the question is not a rhetorical one at all - is a real question - is what financial space is there so that the opposition is also aware of what it says, because the more you leave it in cash, the more each party is entitled to add proposals. Please very much, if you are in the mood, give an answer as briefly as you can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u210	Thank you. The Minister for Development and Investment Mr Georgiadis requested the floor. Here, you have the floor for three minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u211	I won't need three minutes, Mr. President. Just for the Minutes more than that, because it was heard that the amendment we tabled for the Greek is changing the terms of the contract, I would like to say once again that it does not change the terms of the contract, which is, moreover, 2012, the law of the contract is later. It is clear from the terminology used - Mrs Perka, I am sure she understands it - for reasons of legal certainty, so that the CSM which will be issued cannot be easily offended by a bad trust in the courts. It says what it defines, what is the definition of the tall building and the others I have said before. I think that every good-faithed person understands only from the reference to the law that there is no change in the contract, whether for or against the company, none at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u213	Are there other speakers?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u214	It's Mr. Kavadas and Mrs. Lykoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u215	Let me get my answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u216	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u217	Thank you very much. First of all, to apologize. I wanted to be at the beginning of the meeting, but for reasons that you know very well, I couldn't be.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u218	We know him why.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u219	This is the financial area this year on the basis of the economic data we have today. So we run out of the 2019 budget area with this draft law. This financial area is with the estimates and the projections of revenues, the expenditure estimates, the one hundred and twenty instalments that we believe will go much better with the last chance we have today and with the wider, better path of the economy than was the case a month ago. These data have been taken into account for 2019. In 2020, we will assess the course of the 2019 economy, which you know is projected and 2020, we will exhaust any trading margin for all of the things you mentioned, the way in which various sizes are recorded within or outside a programme that counts or does not count in the programme as revenues, we will exhausted every negotiating margin in terms of budgetary objectives, and it was also a commitment by the Prime Minister. So for 2019, which is the crucial question you asked me, with today's data, we have exhausted all the financial space we had for this year.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Minister. Mr Athanasios Kavada has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the first bill of the new government, a bill which will actually bring relief to the citizens. The Greeks will see in a few days' time a reduced tax on real estate, and this will be done with the Government of New Democracy. The new government, implementing its election commitments, brings urgent immediate implementation arrangements and sends a clear message that it respects its commitments and that it has a plan that will boost the real economy and true hope to the Greeks. These arrangements relate to the reduction of the EMCDDA and the improvement of the regulation of a hundred twenty-dollar payment for public debts, arrangements that will directly relieve thousands of our fellow citizens. In particular, for the ENPI this year's clearing house, which the citizens will receive in a few days, will have an average of 22% lower tax. And it is important to stress that these reductions are coming a year earlier than we had announced before the elections. These reductions mainly concern low and medium-sized populations. In particular, for small property of up to EUR 60,000 a 30% reduction, for property of up to EUR 70,000 a 27% reduction, for property of up to EUR 80,000 a 25% reduction, for property of up to 1 000 000 a 20% reduction, while for very large property of 10%. The main aim of the government is to relieve immediately millions of owners, to stimulate the real estate market and gradually to regain the value they have lost. Ladies and gentlemen, we hear some voices from the Opposition that this arrangement is the same as the one they had brought before the elections. Only by the evil one can I take the view that these statements are made, as the data disprove them. Approximately three million nine hundred taxpayers will see greater reductions in HICP's clearing house than the previous government's proposals. Moreover, about half a million taxpayers, who did not have any benefit under the previous legislation, will benefit by this arrangement. With this bill, however, ladies and gentlemen, it is not just the reduction of HISPIA. The improvement and expansion of the institutional framework for the regulation of an hundred and twenty-dollars is also coming. With these improvements citizens and businesses will be able to use a second opportunity and to get rid of the stress of seizures and auctions. The improvements in this case focus on three points: encouraging the consistency of the debtors, their relief and the incentives to pay their obligations in time. In particular, this proposal for a law reduces the minimum monthly payment from EUR 30, currently in force, to EUR 20. The current interest rate on households and businesses is down from 5% to 3%. The regulation is being extended to all legal persons with a basic debt of up to EUR 1,000 000. The possibility of one-off payments of the remaining number of instalments or the transfer to a smaller number of instalments, while exempting the corresponding amount of interest and surcharges, shall be allowed. By subjecting it to regulation and compliance, all forced collection measures and seizures shall be suspended. In addition, where an amount equal to twice the monthly instalment of the arrangement is paid during the accession to the regulation, an exemption shall be granted on an equal footing with the total increases and late payment interest. Finally, debtors who have already been regulated under the current rules under Law 4611/2019 may choose, if they wish, to join the new scheme. With this improved and enlarged proposal, it is therefore clear that citizens will have an important opportunity to settle their public debts, as well as making it clear that this will be the last exceptionally favourable regulation. The State is now heading towards a regularity regime, and after the expiry of this arrangement there will be a permanent and fair system of fixed arrangements that will prevent the need to resort to exceptional arrangements. Ladies and gentlemen, the new government is doing its election announcements and is directly bringing about arrangements that alleviate millions of our fellow citizens. Also, it is being prepared and will come to the House later, and the new Code of Income Tax, which will aim to permanently reduce the tax rates for natural persons and businesses, maintain the tax as it stands, as well as investment incentives. By 10 August, it will have come to the House and the bill dealing with the abolition of asylum at universities, with issues relating to the governance of municipalities and issues that improve the functioning of the government and government work in individual ministries. The country, ladies and gentlemen, has finally acquired a government with a concrete plan. Our plan includes reducing burdens on taxpayers, while developing the economy through investment. We really believe that these arrangements, which we are discussing today, are in the interests of the citizens and we call on all the governments of the House to vote in favour of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u222	Thank you. We're closing up with Mrs. Evangelia Likaulis for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u223	Mr President, I can ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u224	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u225	I have tabled an amendment concerning houses which have been eroded as a result of natural disaster in the Community of Amynthian Florinas and we are calling for the exemption from HISPIA. The amendment has been tabled, but I have not heard anything, which is why I am coming back.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u226	I said it in my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u227	The position is taken on the amendments accepted by the Minister. As far as I know, the Minister does not accept the amendment. In addition, it states that it is not acceptable to do so now. Mrs. Liikolis has the floor, from Larissa Prefecture.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is my first speech from the Step of the Greek Parliament and we are used to being given the opportunity to thank all the citizens who trusted in our faces their present and future and the future of their children and our country. At least from this step I have the opportunity, for the first time, to say that I understand this status as a special debt and a heavy responsibility. It is true that I was thinking, before our parliamentary term began, that I would very much like to come to the House with a positive speech which has a positive sign, for something very big and very important, which would have been a very big change in things. It is also true that I lost the great moment I had in my three-day government's programming statements. I was very excited about saying things that are very important and that change the scenery. But I realised very quickly that the mottos that triumphed in the election and proved successful, commercially, for your Government, are not in line with reality nor with the true intentions of the government. No integrated financial plan was presented by the Prime Minister, no negotiation was opened with the partners for the surplus, no negotiation veto was held on the notorious and much-discussed Ambassadors' agreement. On the other hand, they were captured within me and strongly, as a continuation perhaps of these aggressive verbs, which were used by the government in an election, such as the "scanning" government, which "reinforces" - no positive sign - the post-election practices, which were inextricably linked to the logic of "law and order", "law and state", "law and state", "a control state", "state of control", "state of control". Especially for the latter, you will allow me to comment, as a man I have been serving for twenty-five years in self-government and with great respect to all colleagues that we people of selfgovernment when listening to the term 'final state', have a sensitivity, we have reflexively on it. The ultimate state has a great deal of goodwill for the people of self-government, and this is not by accident, as it has always been for us a high purpose, a high objective. Self-government, therefore, has always demanded that the final state simply by a difference, we thought it was positive and that it should go ahead. Unfortunately, as a member of the respective committee in the next Chamber, it has been thoroughly dealt with in this bill, its positive sign has been 'drought', who are you saying? The Prime Minister himself swallowed it. He swallowed it and already "does" it with the arrangements for a huge public service that he makes around him, with his own signature, with his own choice, with his own control and, finally, his own accountability. So that was the intake we have had in recent days and hours and I say it here as a statement of experience. We will then have a lot to talk about next week. I fully understand the President-in-Office's tactics. But they are the first samples of the government's writing and we cannot get rid of the real intentions. The conclusion is one. The previous speakers have said so, as well as our rapporteur and our parliamentary representative deserved. Unfortunately, there was no 'on the type of suns', an integrated proposal which would introduce us into the logic of the government. We didn't see a plan in detail. We have not seen a clear and complete plan. We were unable to leave our soul free, together with our stamp, our signature and say that we subscribe to these measures. On the other hand, we have seen a measure which cannot, of course, be signed, which relates to HISBIA, which is about one hundred and twenty instalments. But that's not the whole thing. It's the place. The whole thing remains a very big question. We have introduced concrete proposals. The President of the Change Movement a moment ago and the other special rapporteurs have tabled our proposals in writing. It's about special groups of people. It's about special classes of people. But to God, it also involves special categories of people who really need it. Because, in fact, if this measure is introduced by the government for the weak and the weaker, then in any case it should include the proposals concerning the disabled movement, the disabled people, who I do not think - I have studied them - it is indeed, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that they are not common sense. So do we not have the common sense to vote on these? I think so. Finally, I want to make a comment, so that I do not repeat the circles and arguments of the other colleagues. A moment ago, Mr President, I read the amendment - and you will allow me to say my position as legal - and the explanatory memorandum to the amendment, which is exactly one and a half series. But this one-and-a-half series is very critical. It is not a series that says in its explanatory statement. It is a series which opens, enlarges, does not clarify, gives other form to the provision and to the person who knows how to read simple letters and not legal texts. Nor was there any clarification in the explanatory statement - and I am ending with it - who asks for clarification. Has it been raised by any question that this provision should be clarified? Who put that? Is there any chance that a explanatory statement - so many laws have passed and we read them daily - will there be no ambiguity of the law? So the explanatory statement is inadequate, it is unclear. It is a one-way road for our own party - in accordance with the legal order - not to vote in favour of it. This is because we would have completely and clearly abstained from the procedure laid down in the Constitution and the law on the drafting of the recitals. Moreover, with your majesty, Minister, but also with your simple common sense, I believe that all these proposals for traditional settlements and for preserved buildings, but also for vulnerable groups of disabled people, will be accepted. I'll listen to it and watch it with great pleasure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u229	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Treasury of Finance is adjourned: 'Reduction of HISPIA and improvements in the settlement of debts to the Tax Administration of Law 4611/2019 (A ^73) and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u230	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u231	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u232	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u233	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u234	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u235	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u236	The Finance Ministry’s bill: ‘Reduction of HISPIA and improvements in the settlement of debts to the Tax Administration of Law 4611/2019 (A ^73) and other provisions’, was accepted in principle by a majority. We are going to vote on the articles and they will be voted on separately. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u237	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u238	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u239	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u240	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u241	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u242	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u243	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u244	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u245	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u246	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u247	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u248	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u249	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u250	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 8 and a special number 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u251	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u252	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u253	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u254	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u255	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u256	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u257	Therefore, the amendment under general number 8 and a special 8 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u258	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u259	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u260	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u261	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u262	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u263	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u264	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the Law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Reduction of HISPIA and improvements in the settlement of debts to the Tax Administration of Law 4611/2019 (A ^73) and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and by a majority. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u265	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u266	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u267	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u268	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u269	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u270	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u271	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Reduction of HISPIA and improvements in the settlement of debts to the Tax Administration of Law 4611/2019 (A ^73) and other provisions’ has been accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u272	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u273	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-30-S1-commons.u274	With the consent of the House at the time of 19.10 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday, July 31, 2019 and 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: discussion and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, on applications for waiver of immunity by the Member, Mr Paul Polakis (two motions for resolutions), in accordance with the special agenda distributed.
