ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS First of all, I would like to inform the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-two students and students and an educational attendant from the High School of Denmark Frederiksberg Gymnasium. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We just need to explain to you that we are going to have the topical and urgent debate and that is why in this House there are only a few colleagues here. It is the process in which Members ask the Minister on a matter of topicality and the Minister responsible is here to answer. The issues that we are going to discuss are educational issues and concern you for sure, so I think your presence is interesting. Four questions will be answered today. They will be answered by the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Gavroglou. So we start with the second debate under number 418/12-3-2019 on the second time question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on the Minister's decision on "Introduction of Students to Departments of Music Studies". Here, Mr. Colleague, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. As is well known, Minister, in the summer that passed us, in 2018 and specifically in the law on the Ionian University, if I remember well for the University of Ioannina, the way in which students were introduced to university music schools has changed, not to all - look at them, we did not understand that - but at four out of six. The former system of introduction and the School of Musical Studies of Aristotle in Thessaloniki were excluded and remained in force, as was of course the same school of the University of Athens. In these schools now, the other four, i.e. in Corfu, in Yannina, in the University of Macedonia, change the way to import. This is therefore provided for in the relevant Law, Law 4559, but the adoption of a ministerial decision specialising and analysing these different types of examinations is delayed for six months and is issued only on February 14, 2019 and published in the FEK on 20 February. Look, three months literally before the pan-Hellenic examinations were carried out to change the rules of the examinations, I do not think it is the best, Minister. We do not understand why this decision has been delayed for six months and why this has been quickly implemented. As you can see, it is quite difficult - to be impossible - for candidates to prepare. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In fact, students who choose the music sector - I end, Mr President - will have to prepare themselves for two different types of examinations if they want to go to Athens or to Aristotle with the old system, and if they want the new schools, the other four schools, with the new system. You can understand that this creates very serious problems and, indeed, an object for which there is no specific material at school and of course there are no corresponding manuals. So we urge you, Minister, to suspend this ministerial decision. We're not just asking you. You're asked by parents, children. Even the University of Macedonia asks for it in the letter sent to you and you know it. Of course you and your Ministry must also take care to ensure that students receive the necessary manuals and can be prepared in time and normally in schools and not in the educational market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u3	Minister, because Mr Saridis has a question with almost the same subject, would you have a problem discussing the questions at the same time and having twice as much time to answer both of them?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u4	I have no problem, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u5	So, for the time economy, I would like to read Mr Saridis' question. This is the fourth question under number 395/1-32019 in the second cycle of the Thessaloniki Parliamentary I MEP Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The new ministerial decision to introduce students into the music departments of the country is blocking the dreams of the students." Mr. Saridis, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, a student begins with certain rules, under certain conditions, in September for his new year, so he can claim and realize his dreams. During the school year these rules are changed. There's a ministerial decision on February 22 for these students who are in general high school and want to actually achieve their dream in some musical departments of university schools and change the rules of the game. From two specific lessons that they should actually study, everything is changed. So we ask the Minister, as Mr Delis has already been put on the same subject, what criteria are these changes applied three months before the Greek examinations and not since the beginning of the next school year, as are study manuals to include changes in the material provided for in the Ministerial Decision? Are teachers trained to cope with this very brief period of time and to protect, as is the responsibility of the students for equal treatment in their attempt to introduce into the music departments of the Ionian University, the University of Macedonia and the University of Ioannina? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u7	Minister, because we are talking about music and because much has been said in the last few days and because of the military and student parade and about whether the "Macedonia renowned" piracy will be played by bands, could I ask if what they say is true is now being ordered to stop being played by our bands "Macedonia renowned"? Let us know if you have any view, some information on this, because I think it concerns all Greeks. You understand that it is a matter of topicality. That is why I take the opportunity to put it, since we are talking about music, if you will answer us at the same time. Here, Minister, you have the floor for six minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, with all due respect the question you raise is not a matter of music and I think we are here today and I am prepared to answer the questions. It's a matter that...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u9	Respectable, but I found the opportunity because it's also a matter of education. You know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u10	In a sense, everything is a matter of education. You know that, too. First of all, I would like to apologize for being ten minutes late. We need to make it clear that it is important that our university departments are not completely homogenised in their curriculum programs for our students and students. There are differentiations from one section to another, which is why many times the choices made by the candidate students and students are preferences not only per city, but also per department, because they think that one section offers things that are closer to their own interests. With this logic, we are in constant consultation with the departments, so that we can see whether there is any need for further knowledge, so that children who enter universities can follow the programme better and more adequately. That was the logic. The fact that this is not the case with the Music Department of the University of Thessaloniki and the University of Athens is because these departments have a more theoretical programme - that is not to underestimate the curriculum - rather than a programme that strengthens too much and the learning of specific institutions. Now I want to ask you whether in recent years - not just because of our government - there was something institutionalised and there is no reaction to postpone for a year. I'm obviously in general, but at some point we have to get into a normality. Since last August this has been known. I agree with you that there is a ministerial decision that came out in February, not to establish it, but to give details of how the questions are to be formed. But you know, the main thing we are interested in is to move away from a logic that ministerial decisions should say to the slightest detail of what will be considered, how it will be considered, etc. Either we learn the general education and outside this extremely narrow framework of its legislation, whatever legislation, or everything will be in this codified way, which children in the end learn how to pass examinations and do not know the content at all. So in August we knew. Clearly, we said this again in November 2018. The material of the exams is fully covered by the books of general education of the 1st, 2nd and 3th grades, it is not apart from it. And of course, this year, for the first time, is the average of the two courses under consideration. You know, if anyone was getting under the base in one of the two, he couldn't move. In any case, we think that this regulation meets the needs of students and students for these two sections I have mentioned. Secondly, it strengthens its overall structure as candidates for what they want to study. On this occasion, Mr President, I would like to say something about the Rectors' Conference in Heraklion last Saturday. It is very important that our universities should also be involved in the process of preparing our students for admission to universities. What do we mean by that? It must be per cognitive region, for example mathematicians, philologists, all departments, all our universities, to tell us what kind of first-year students and students want. It is of great importance in preparing children for teachers to know, but also in the state of what kind of profile universities need. This will help far too much in an even more rationalisation of these extremely pressing and many times psycho-corruptional pan-Hellenic exams. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Delis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u12	Minister, let me begin by saying that the answers you have given are not convincing, especially with regard to the diversification of university departments. As is well known, the JRC is in favour of uniform higher education. Of course, there will be differences, but there will be differences in individual, and in any case there will be no differences in theory and practice. Because there can be no university courses of music that deal only with the theory and similar university departments only with the act. We think that, especially in music, theory and act go hand in hand, not to mention life. In any case, we do not think it is necessary to know exactly how the children will be involved, how and exactly what the children who want to go to these musical sections will be examined in these specific examinations. We don't think it's a detail. For example, should the Ministry not think, in any case, of giving some candidates the right to give these tests with the oldest system, with what was known all previous years? And let's go see, because I have your ministerial decision here, the "Musical Execution" and the "Musical Concept and Knowledge", that is, the lessons that will be considered by the children. Are these taught in the context of secondary education? Are they taught with a sufficient degree? Of course not. Are they taught in GELs and PAALs? The history of music is taught, mostly taught in music schools, but without the corresponding book and usually from notes given by teachers. Study manuals for European and Byzantine music - I now tell you pieces of educational, to which students will be examined in order to pass into these musical sections - do not exist. There are, of course, trade, suggestion by teachers and parents go and buy it, and these books may be different. In any case, neither indifference is naturally guaranteed behind a complaint about the ability of a candidate to perform an instrument. In any case, Minister, he asks you, as I told you, and the Department of Music Science and Art of the University of Macedonia in Thessalonica and I will submit in the minutes the letter from that university department. They are also asking you - having tabled their objections to individual issues raised in relation to the examinations - to suspend this measure for this year. And we do not think that it is convincing, too, to say that this is usually the case. Now there is very serious and very specific reason - everyone understands it - to suspend this measure, in any case, from the next pan-Hellenic examinations. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Delis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Speaking of which, Mr Minister, the new system of access to higher education is cooked, I must say that it is a system with which the Third High School is effectively canceled. For the first time, while so far throughout history, school years have been growing, they are actually decreasing. High school III is no longer a normal school class, and it becomes a school class. The only ones who applaud you for that are the schoolteachers. Parents, students, teachers, everyone is across the street. You insist. You have envied the glory of the oldest, Mr. Arseni. We give you an advice, Minister, not to testify or to think that this can be done and go more easily, in or around Easter, because you will find in front of you both the parents and the students and the teachers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Mr. Saridis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I will agree with you that universities should be involved in the process of what students we need in the future as a society and as a country. I would also agree with you that there really are universities with a little different curriculum, and that is how education is served in a way. I will disagree with you on the idea that we can differentiate - and I return to it again - the rules of the game just in the middle of a school year. It is not revolutionary, Minister, to change the rules to these children who are trying and having some dreams. So this ministerial decision of yours could come out two months later, it could come out two months ago, in order to be more prepared for these students and to be able to best claim their entry into the music departments they choose. In any case, Minister, because all the arguments have been heard by the previous colleague, I would ask that this ministerial decision be suspended, that this school year ends in the best way, for all students, for parents and for the government, Minister. Because such decisions harm students, parents and, above all, the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u15	Thank you for the time, Mr. Saridis. The Minister has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. We insist that this was known as August. There is an examination of the basic use of the instrument and the musical education of the candidates. This is something that we have debated very systematically for a long time with the respective sections and we have come up with something that is an optimal solution for everyone. However, I would like to make a few comments on what Mr Delis said, who referred to the proposal we are making and we have come to the consultation on the third grade. He called it "cooking". Let's just say it was a word he missed. Because we cannot talk about something we have been talking about for a year and we have only heard cries from your party. We never heard a proposal here. You say it is unacceptable to reduce the years of general education, while the whole world is growing. Are you happy as a party with what's going on in High school today? Do you think that children, as the system is structured, get general education or want to continue a system with incredible pathogens? That doesn't have a lot of answers. It is 'yes' or 'no'. You say 'yes' from your standpoint. I want to know what is the way you choose to get the kids into universities. Do you know who that is? The way you choose is today, i.e. more internships, more in particular...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u17	You're wrong and you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u18	Unfortunately, I'm not mistaken. And I say 'unfortunately', because I have read your texts, your party, as carefully as you do. And I am looking for this proposal, which will bring about this radical, revolutionary change that you are saying. So what do we say? We are talking about following something that, in any case, is not something that is being done for the first time in Greece. What's that? In infinite parts of the world - not to tell you in all parts of the world - the Third High School is an intermediate time that is the continuation of the Second High School at the level of general education and preparation for the university. There's no other way. There's no other model. And don't underestimate what we suggest, that is, the few lessons, the four lessons and the six hours. Don't say that's gonna increase the internships. Why would the kids go to the nursery when they have only four lessons and great comfort with a material that is completely manageable? You play a very bad role in society when you panic that this thing is doubling, triple matter, that all this is schooling and undermining general education. General education is not about having fifteen lessons, about one hour, the other two hours. General education is to be able to form and prepare. And preparing to the university is part of this education. So school will form and will not be what it will prepare exclusively for the university exams. You know, over the last sixty years - and I would ask you to study the different systems - is the first time that children have been given free access. And I want you to place: Are you in favour or against? Because what we have done to broaden the opportunities for education in society you have voted against. I remind you of two-year-old pre-school education, what you are now only projecting on panic terms. So I would ask you to drop the tons and bring us proposals. You didn't have any suggestions on appointments. You had nothing but one criticism. So if it is the criticism of such issues, then it should be in a way that really reflects reality and not make its own reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u19	The fact that you do not like our proposals does not mean that they do not exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u20	Please, Mr. Colleague, you don't sound. Thank you, Mr. Minister. The second, under number 424/18-32019, is the first question by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religion, on the subject: "The founding of a department of tourism based in Rhodes and the supremacy of “ASTER” with its accession to the University of the Aegean", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the honourable Member, Mr. Konsola. The first question under number 427/19-32019 of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Panagiotis Kouroublis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Refund fees for large hydroelectric power stations", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister for the Environment and Energy Mr. George Statakis, due to a workload. The first question under number 425/18-32019 of the second question of the New Democracy MP, Charalambous Athanasiou, to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject: "Inhumane and degrading, for Lesvos and Greece, the current situation in the Centre for the Reception of Moria", will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister for Migration Policy, Mr. Vitsa, due to a workload. The fifth, with No. 279/15-1-2019 topical question for the second cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Direct actions to introduce Crete into the transport equivalent" will not be discussed by the Deputy Minister of Shipping and Island Policy Mr. Nektarios Santorini, due to the fact that the same question as the Member himself has been discussed again. For all this, there is a letter from the Government Secretariat and Mr Kaidazis. Now we will discuss the third question with number 400/4-32019 in the second question of the Attica MEP Mr Athanasios Bourras to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on the subject: 'Reopening of the General School of Magulas as an examination centre'. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would remind you of the particular sensitivity that you, like myself, have in the fields of education, since we have exhausted our professional career as teachers in higher education. About a year ago you showed this sensitivity in this same area after the destructive floods of Mandra, with the arrangement that you made after my own time again a timely question, in which you responded positively and gave the particular molecules to the children of Mandra, Magula and Nea Peramos. I would like to remind you of what the President mentioned, namely the reopening of the General High School of Magulas as an examination centre. Let me just tell you that at the moment we are talking about this area, i.e. Mandra, Magulas and Nea Peramos, is still in emergency, after the second flood that took place in June 2018, that is a few months ago. Time not completed yet. I must tell you that people, students, parents and guardians of the pupils of Magulas live in an area that I must remind you that they were a special municipality, a large municipality, in the centre of a region, of the Triasian Field, which is so much offered to the national economy. Because in this area, Minister, 40% of the heavy industry is hosted. There's the only landfill in the Ghost, next door. There are the big refineries in the country. There are heavy industries, metallurgy. There are logistics that move products throughout the country. I would like to tell you that in this region people are hospitable to help the country, but they also expect a corresponding response from the state. I appeal to you, because I have to tell you what they are asking for. They did all the right things. They ask for the reopening of the General School of Magulas as an examination centre. I was very happy to respond as a Member of the West Attica now, after the separation, as you know, to Eastern and Western Attica. They ask for the reopening, because it acted as a center until 2010, which became the law of "Kallikrati" and - to remind you - the Ragosi law, which has steeply interrupted the operation. All data to be fulfilled shall be filled. The equipment is there. The proceedings have been conducted. I tabled a written question on 29 January. I did not get a reply in twenty days, as foreseen, and I was forced, because you are about to take the ministerial decision to define the centres of examination, and I asked about this timely question coming back to us and asking - please - to include the General High School of Magulas as an examination centre. I'll tell the rest of it in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Bourras, you were right to say that the General High School of Magulas until 2010 was an examination centre and you were right to refer to the problems that this region has encountered recently. You know that last year was in Elefsina, the 1st and 2nd GL, aspropyrgos, Mandra, Nea Peramos, Megaras, Ano Liosias and Zephyri, the examination centres. As far as I understand it, there's a number of fifty eight-nine children. It doesn't matter the exact number, but it's between fifty and sixty kids. He's in an area afflicted. Although the other centres of inquiry are very close, in two and a half kilometres, I think we need to accept your request, which is a request from other Members. Mr. Panzas and Mr. Baltas have mentioned it. I think that this request needs to be met, and we are in the process of being satisfied, and that you also carry it to the interested parties. There will be a ministerial decision that goes out with all the examination centers and will certainly include the GEL Magulas in them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Buras has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u25	I am very pleased and fully satisfied at the moment, Mr Minister, that you are pleased with the general feeling of the region. You mentioned other areas there. They're all sensitive and they all deserve special help. In fact, in all of these are former municipalities that came together, because - bring them in - the Zephyri you said is now in the single municipality of Phyllis. The new Peramos you mentioned is in the single city of Megaron. So now Magula, which is in the single municipality of Elefsina - Magulas, was the only area that distinguished itself. From there on, these people together with all society - I am telling you, it was a heartwarming fact - from the timely deadline, since December, they had taken all steps, informing the Director of secondary education, then the regional director with the advice of the Director of Education and us, and I believe that these children will now be more satisfied and relieved of a stress. I told you at the outset that you and I have served education for many years, particularly higher education, and we know the psychology that the child has, even a little moving and a little, despite the fact that Magula is especially - I do not know if you know the region - it meets five kilometres, that is to say it is over five kilometres away. But that's not all. In any case, I am saying this for historical reasons. Mr President, as you can see, I did not have to take all my time after the Minister's positive response and it is expected that this decision will also come to light within the days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u26	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u27	I have nothing to add, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u28	I'll agree. Thank you both for the time economy. The first question will be discussed under number 4659/3-1-2019 of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Drama of New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning "the solution to the association of the Democritus University of Thrace (DITH) - TEI of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace (AMTH)". Mr. Comrade, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. The timely question today comes as a product of question from the beginning of the year, which was multi-page. I have a problem here. I'll beg to have your tolerance. Minister, in May last year we tried to have a debate on the partnership - synergy - absorption of the TEI of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace at the International University of Greece - an English-language, postgraduate character - based in Thessaloniki, i.e. excluding the Democritus University of Thrace, whose representatives were not even invited to participate in the committee you set up. Then you said publicly that your intention is through the specific working groups to let the academic community do its job first, that is, we in the various discussions said who wants to participate in a working group to bring a finding to upgrade higher education in this region. That's not what you did. You headed unilaterally, excluding the Democrat University from participation, although you said that this is a pure position of the rector authorities of the university community, which you unfortunately did not observe. Of course, the work of the committee has been completed. We're completely ignored. Of course, it was made public while you committed yourself to a debate with institutions. You have called SYRIZA MPs, not the other parties. Perhaps you did well for you. You are, of course, moving on to this absorption of the TEI of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace at the International University, without all that university data, namely criteria, principles, safeguards, funding, scientific staff. After all, the chairman of the board of directors of the International University, Mr Kostas Written, was also resigned, a professor of prestige in and outside the country. You have created forty parts in six cities, a multimodal model, a global phenomenon - I would say - not only in our country, but elsewhere. After all, you have learned from outside. I don't know where that model is that you guys bring us. Ultimately, huge questions arise as sufficient resources are lacking, lacking or any strategy. There is a lack of scientific staff. Where will he be? After all, it is also stressed in other discussions that have taken place here and in terms of the General Accounting Office of the State that there are no funding, expenditure on how this whole system will work, and obviously you have to tell us. Finally, I would like to ask why the Republican Republic was excluded from the whole debate. In relation to the project promoted, in the absence of a sufficient number of LPIS members, how will seventy LPD members operate in forty-one schools and departments? This is unprecedented. We think you'll have something to tell us about it. In our debate you said that it is not possible to create two universities in eastern Macedonia and Thrace. But now we see two universities in Crete and the TEI and finally a third university is being created, because it is not accepted or a result - I would say - of the discussions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Cryazides, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u31	I shall conclude, Mr President. So what luck do the departments in Drama have when the country's rural sections have reached a two-digit number and the forestry in five, when Germany has four to four times the size? Why do you remove the existing Architecture Department from Drama and transfer it to Serres? Isn't that enough in the Serres? How in Kavala do you propose a Department of Accounting and Financial and, at the same time, a Department of Economic Science in Serres with severe overlaps? How can the same university have a Department of Accounting and Finance in Kavala and Department of Accounting and Information Systems in Thessaloniki?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Comrade, finish it up. We've reached five minutes. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u33	I'm done, Mr. President. How can the university itself have a Department of Public Administration and Thessaloniki and a Department of Administration and Science in Kavala? The Mortality of Mergers - Absortion is confessed - if you like - and by you, since the laws of absorption of TEIs Thessaly and TEI Stereas from the University of Thessaly in Article 34 create an Academy of Education - in the previous merger - absorption of the departments of Central Greece and Thessaly - and a centre or a Board of Education and Research is set up to study the conditions for the establishment of HEIs and research centres in the Region of Central Greece. Wasn't this supposed to happen in eastern Macedonia and Thrace in relation to the TEI that exists and works? I'm sorry, Mr. President, I couldn't finish on time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u34	Colleague, you understand that the time of the prototype is limited to two minutes. To have a tolerance for three minutes, to have a tolerance for one minute, two at most. But we've reached six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u35	I understand, I just said first, Mr President, that this was a question...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u36	All the questions asked by all Members are very important and timely.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u37	No, I'd like to tell you to understand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u38	Time is specific.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u39	I say that the question was tabled as a simple question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u40	I don't want any excuses.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u41	She was filed as a simple question at the beginning of January and came to the debate as a timely one, but her content was specific.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u42	Mr Colleagues, I am doing this in general as a comment. Request to all colleagues: You know your time, customize these times...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u43	This is not a timely question, Mr President. It came as a timely question after a simple question, the content of which was another.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u44	And I told you that one, two minutes, I get it. Six minutes is an exaggeration.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u46	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u47	Mr Kyriazidis, in respect of your face - and I want you to note this - I do not want to ask you any clarifications about the questions you have asked me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u48	I have no problem, Minister, and thank you for your appreciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u49	Because these questions arise from a complete ignorance of the problem and they are obviously not yours, but they are your partners. Look, we've been discussing this issue for a year. Shouldn't you be informed of what's actually going on, go talk to people there? Why is this attempt to create impressions about something where there is impressive consensus from the committee that gave us the conclusion? This has never been done since the Migration. I don't want to go before, because it doesn't make any sense. So I say, first of all, to respect the work, knowledge and infinite hours that these people have worked to give such a finding. Secondly - I would ask you very much - partnership, synergy and association is one of the many elements of the new architecture that we are proposing. I understand that your party has a very great difficulty in doing this, and that is why it has a very great difficulty in making a proposal on how the future of our universities will be in a Europe that is dramatically changing in terms of university education. So what do we say? Universities from 1982 for the first time began talking about their own future. This is within an architecture characterised by four elements, the creation of new cognitive objects, the upgrading of the TEI departments, some of which are of excellent quality, the creation of university research centres with institutes - a new institution - and the creation of two-year curriculum programs, to which the graduates of the PESA will have access without examinations, free of charge, so that they can obtain professional certificates. This is the architecture in which the foundations are now coming through the committees, through the discussions that are taking place in the senators. Because these committees are not independent, no one has chosen them from the Ministry. The institutions themselves have proposed people who have - anyway - and huge prestige and enormous knowledge. This is now specific to every site. With this logic, we have reached what has been in consultation for the International University for some time. Because here, again, there is another kind of philology from your party, that it was an extremely successful project by the International University, and with what we are doing, we are leading it to marvelation and we are leading to resignations and so on. Nothing is more true and I really talk to you, because the International University after so many years has eight or nine members of teaching staff, its finances are in a very problematic state, and there was no prospect that would be linked to the other universities. We thus upgrade the International University - in relation to what it was - and with this synergy and the rest of the institutions we will have a very powerful educational institution in eastern Macedonia and Thrace. You should be aware that on the subject of teaching staff we committed ourselves on Saturday again at the Pentecost Session for five hundred new posts and, furthermore, for the first time after the crisis, after 2010, we legislate on the possibility that the institutions themselves will be able to declare the posts of the pensioned teachers, which had ceased to apply since 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Here, Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u51	Minister, the International University had another character. You now, of course, share it somewhat differently or completely differently. After all, that was also stressed by Mr Written, I told you. And for the same - if you want - a fact that you go in a violent way - I would say - you do not agree with the Independent Quality Assurance Authority. It mentions it as an unregulated provision in the country's academic map. Of course, the New Democracy also has another perception of how technological education should function, of course, with an upgrade, but not with a kind of ashtray. That's what you're going to do. This is highlighted by everyone. You have already confessed. On the other hand, of course, I asked you why the Democrat University did not participate in the dialogue. You didn't answer me. I tell you, on the other hand, that there are two universities in Crete and a TEI. It does not enter anywhere and it will be created as a third university. So I tell you why you do not create a second university in eastern Macedonia and Thrace to support that place, based in Kavala - if you like - in order to have a higher education institution in this region and not to be weakened, as you go to do with the creation of a fourth Law School in Patras, weakening the Democritus University. I also asked you why you abolish the Architecture School in Drama concerning that place. We told you another time when we talked about the departments there, and you told me that you did not interfere with the operation of the whole HEI, about how it would be distributed - I quote this - scientific staff. I told you that the Department of Oenology operates with a representative of the Oenology Department, with a scientist - if possible! - and there twenty-four people were transferred last year and last year. You didn't interfere. That's how all parts of this area will end up. Everything will be invaded or absorbed at the International University with the respective TEI of Thessaloniki and we will be there simple viewers, if you like, of the entire route of the highest technological education in the country. That is a tough reality, because we are living it, Minister. I do not understand why you are going to carry out this project. I'm telling you, a loser. There will simply be one edition, as you said, of university degrees - in introductory titles for a frame, with no content. That's the hard reality. I am waiting for your dentistry or, at any rate, when the bill comes - I hope it will not come - to sit down and discuss, to be able to operate properly and productively, and indeed to ensure the professional rights of graduates who, under the present regime, do not happen what you are going to carry out. I would also ask you - it is also a request from my region - that, if you want to - reform the university charter, but also the content of the pan-Hellenic examinations undertaken by each government - although there should also be stable in these issues of education, which are not there, unfortunately, and we also have a responsibility - there should, at least, be two years of preparation. You have also decided in a semester, eight months, to set up another system of introductorys at universities, that is, pan-Hellenic examinations, and of course there are issues, Minister, which call into question the whole process. I believe that I have a second answer which will satisfy to some extent or rethink it, because in fact our country's technological education is suffering and we have waited for you, having an experience both inside and outside the country, to assist you in that direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u52	Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kyriazidis, your party is not allowed to use the word 'achharmas' for what we do in higher education. Remember "THENA"? Do you remember that on the initiative of your own government tertiary education was blown? You're talking about technological training. Do you remember what happened at the TEIs? Unless you've forgotten. So I say that he wants peace when we discuss this because...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u54	You're doing it the most unfavourable. Every city and a field.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Cryazides, you don't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u56	He said Mr Kyriazidis - I repeat it so that it can be heard and not be considered as wishing to reply - that we do so on the most unfavourable terms. Ask the students and the teachers of the department. Why don't you do this and come here and say all that talk? Why don't you go ask someone? The president of your party offended the teachers who made a unanimous decision, saying "What do you do with these institutions when they have not been evaluated?", while they were evaluated and evaluated positively. And people came out and said "at all times, in any case, calm" etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u57	I am not going to "antidotes" - in quotes - where you go to buy...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u58	Mr. Cryazides, you don't even respect the Minister for giving you an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Cryazides, you make it worse.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u60	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u61	The Minister is open to discussion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u62	Yeah, but you don't sound. Not even the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u63	I repeat him, so there is no problem, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u64	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u65	Mr Kyriazidis, it is not right to say that we are giving the world the adversarials there. It's not right. You underestimate the world there. The one who votes for you, the one who listens to you, the one who appreciates you. Don't say such talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u66	I wish I could be disproved.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u67	The 'antidora' is your political culture, our political culture is not the logic of that. What can we do, Mr. Cryazides? We also differ in some things in a very dramatic way. So I say you go and ask, why did you raise all the issues just so you don't touch anything. You raised all the issues. But I want to talk about the Democrat University. With the Democritus University, we are in a consultation, which will also be reflected in the bill, on how it proposes some sections and some institutes that in this way see its own development for the future. We're, I think, in the last conversations. The proposals they have made are fully documented and reasonable. There's also the proposal for the Veterinary School. However, we have said that a working party needs to be set up to study the issues of veterinary schools, because there is both the Agricultural Athens and the University of Peloponnese claiming such a school. It is an exact school that needs study and we will proceed to form this team. However, there is no blockade of Democritus, but exactly the opposite. We welcome what Democratio itself asks us, except for the study of the Veterinary School. For the rest, I think you will be very systematically informed by our colleagues there and when the bill is being discussed, I am sure we will have a very creative dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much to the Minister. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-22-S1-commons.u69	With the consent of the House, 10.40 minutes will be closed.
