ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS There will be only one question to be debated in this sitting, but let me first announce the timely questions that will not be discussed. The fifth question under number 349/11-2-2019, the second question of the new Republic of Athens MP, Mr Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis, will not be debated as a result of an impediment by Mr Georgios Georgiadis to the Minister of Health regarding the medicine. The second, under number 382/26-2-2019, topical question by MP Serres of the Democratic Incorporation, Mr Michael Jellée, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject of "Increased the infringence in Serres Law and the Subordinated Police Directorate of Serres", will not be discussed as a result of a blockade by the MP. Also, the following questions will not be discussed as a result of impediments by the relevant ministers: The first question under number 384/26-2-2019 of the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of Health, on the subject of "Erections related to Primary Care for Health in Heraklion Prefecture and the extension of the Cardiopathy Intensive Monitoring Unit (MPC) to the University Hospital of Heraklion (PAGNI)", will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, due to unsettled commitments. The second question under number 390/26-2-2019, first question by the Member of Parliament, Achaias, New Democracy, Isona Fotella, to the Minister of Health, on "Without end" the deadlock with the family doctor, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, because of unsuccessful obligations. The third, with number 375/20-2-2019, the first question of the Athens Congressman, Mr. Andreas Loverdos, to the Minister of National Defence, on "Participation of Greece in the European Union Defence Cooperation", will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of National Defence Mr. Evangelos Apostolakis, due to a workload on the upcoming official visit of the German Minister of National Defence in Athens. The ninth, under number 328/4-2-2019, top-circuit question by MP I Athens, New Democracy, Vassiliou Kikilia, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject of “Supervisory Judges in the Armed Forces”, will not be discussed, since the Minister of National Defence has answered in writing from 12 February 2019 under number 5111/29-1-2019, similar to the questions discussed by the Member himself. The fourth under number 380/25-2-2019 topical question by Independent MEP II, Demetrios Kammenos to the Minister of National Defence, on “the Risk Analysis Report for 2019 of Frontex”, indicating that migration pressure remains high at the external borders of the European Union”, will not be discussed because of lack of competence, since under the current institutional framework, the responsibilities of the question fall within the Ministries of Civil Protection, Maritime and Immigration Policy. The first, with number 391/26-2-2019, topical question by the Member of Parliament, Mr. Konstantinos Skrekas, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject of "Healthy hotel businesses are at risk because of VAT charge", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the State Secretary of Finance, Mrs. Catherine Papanatziou, because of a government mission. The sixth question, under number 355/12-2-2019, of a second question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, on the transfer of real estate to a Public Real Estate Company (ETAD) - Fund for the Development of Private Property of the Government (THEID) will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr.Eklidis Tsakalotou, due to a workload. The seventh question under number 350/11-2-2019 of the Deputy of Attica of the New Republic, Georgios Vlachos, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject "The Support Account of the National Bank of Greece (LEPETE)" will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotou, due to a workload. The eighth Question No 351/11-2-2019, on a second question by the Member of Parliament, Ioannis Koutsoukou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The feasibility and moderation of the transfer to the Uttoms on the demand of the 50th of the public property in the Municipality of Pyrgos", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotou, due to a workload. The first question with number 2932/31-10-10-2018 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP II of the Democratic Association Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject of "Democracy of the Municipal Closed Gymnasium of the 2nd High School", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr.Eklidis Tsakalotou, due to a workload. The tenth under number 316/29-1-2019 a topical question by MP Laconia of Democratic Integration Mr. Leonidas Gregorakos to the Minister of Health, on "Delays in the crossing of patients from the EKA in intensive treatment facilities due to a lack of medical staff", will not be discussed due to an obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis, due to a workload. Eleventh, under number 332/5-2-2019, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, on "the chronic problems of the Psychiatric Clinic of the University General Hospital of Heraklion (PANGN)", will not be discussed due to an obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis, due to a workload. The twelfth under number 329/4-2-2019 topical question by the Deputy Dramas of the New Republic, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister of Health, on the subject of "Creation of a Bran Branch / Oncological Clinic at the General Hospital of Drama", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis, due to a workload. The thirteenth question, number 322/4-2-2019, on the second question of the Member of Parliament for the Representation of the Democratic Integration, Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas, to the Minister for Health, on the subject of "Supports of chemistry", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Paul Polakis, on account of a workload. The fourteenth under number 262/9-1-2019 is a topical question for the second cycle of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Papapas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject of “Emergency need to increase military service”, will not be discussed. Before we move on to the question, Mr Dimitris Kammenos has asked for the floor. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much. Mr President, with your permission I would like to protest against the cancellation of my question and the statement by the Minister of National Defence as unauthorised. I had tabled the question on 25 February 2019, following Frontex's report on the pressure we had as a country on our external borders and, in particular, on the pedestrian crossings of migrants and especially on Evros. Mr. Vitsats had spoken of an increase of 284% over the previous year. These are elements of the Ministry of Migration Policy and Frontex. My question was sent to the Ministry of National Defence with three very specific questions: Since eighteen thousand to twenty thousand people from Evros have increased, what is the responsibility of the Ministry of National Defence for border guarding? And again, they were pedestrians from Evros.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u3	Mr Colleague, do not raise the question. I gave you the floor to testify your objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u4	I testify to my protest to be recorded in the Minutes. I consider the Ministry of National Defence to be directly and fully competent to answer how it is going to be eighteen to twenty thousand - according to Mr Vitsa - immigrants from guarded borders of Evros. Of course, I followed the Rules of Procedure of the House and tabled the question again to the Ministry of Migration Policy, which I do not know if it is competent. They told me she was in charge. That is why I just wanted to testify to my protest. I think it's wrong. The Ministry of National Defence must respond to how thousands of people are pedestrianised across the border. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Comrade, it's been recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, I would also like to speak for one speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Carras, I'll give you the floor. We'll combine time. I will have a tolerance to prove the question, which is unanswered. So we are now moving on to the third debate under number 385/26-2-2019 on the second time question by MP II Athens of the Democratic Association Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Annulling police - high crime in the municipalities of western Athens". The current question will be answered by the Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Olga Gerovalis. Mr President, I will give you three minutes instead of two for your prototype, so you will also be able to raise the question, which has not been answered for a long time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. In relation to the topical and urgent question, Mr President, the Group of the Democratic Independence had submitted to the Minister a topical question on 10 October 2018 and asked for debate on the issue of the outbreak of crime and of the insecurity of citizens in general. Our topical and urgent question has not been answered. Meanwhile, new data emerged, especially for the region of western Athens, where there were reports of inadequate police and high crime in the municipalities of western Athens. I would like to clarify this, Minister: when I say 'high-crime', I say that I am not talking about felony. I am referring to the current daily crime that exists in the regions of western Athens, and it is thefts, the burglaries. Due to insufficient staffing of the police directorates and departments, there is an issue which has been denounced by the police representatives themselves - I am referring to trade unions - that there is a great shortage of staff. Especially the security sections, most of them, at night don't work. There's no traffic in the streets from police cars than minimal. This situation has created a problem of high crime. I repeat, I'm not talking about felonies. It's exceptionally felony as far as I'm concerned. But what scares the world is not to be a violation of his home, his store. These phenomena are everyday. I shall invoke, Mr President, the following elements, which I believe prove to be true. Journal research reports that they're declaring the security sections and putting a lock on the nights. Announcement of the mayors of western Athens: "There are nights you don't walk comfortable". In fact, he says the Mayor of Agia Varvara: "There is a need for police presence, especially in times of economic crisis, which is increasing crime, in our region." In the Municipality of Ilio there was an incident of attack on a bus driver. There is one point on the border of the municipality of Kamateros, where there is a problem - you will know, Minister - of an imported person - let me call it this way - crime from Zephyri or from Acharnes, where when small crimes are pressed, they go down to areas where there is no adequate police to continue their action unnecessarily. In fact, it is said here that small businesses, such as ovens, are constantly under attack. At the same time, I would say this, Mr President, to link it to the top of my question: I have a report saying that in Haidari there are nightmare nights on Karaiskaki street from thefts and burglaries and that there is no police protection. Accordingly, Mr President, there is a reference to a publication in Agia Barbara, where there is talk of break-ups in shops. I also have a title here - and I see that the evidence is checked - where Ilion says it's in the mercy of robbers and violating groups and that I'm afraid that people and shoppers live. Another post yesterday, says: "Working in a jewellery shop in Illion" on February 26th. This data, Minister, shows a high degree, not a felony crime - I want to be clear at this point, and I repeat it - but acts of daily crime, which have evidence of violence by definition, in the sense, Mr President, of the violation or break-up of the house or the shop at night. And there's no way anyone could escape to the police. And to denounce it, they will tell him 'Come on, the next day'. With these thoughts and this information, Minister, you should give us an explanation. Why is there this hypotension? What measures does the Ministry intend under your leadership to take in order to eliminate this phenomenon?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I think today we have the comfort to talk and, with the opportunity to say two things more to Mr Karras on the more general issues which, for practical reasons, were not answered, not for any other reason. On the contrary. I am also sure that I can have a very productive debate with you. I cannot, of course, ignore the fact that the regions of the West Attica, with the particularities we all know, are faced with acute problems of unlawful behaviour and actions. I would like to say, however, that these are issues, as you know, which have been structured in a way that has many years ago. I refer to the peculiarities that led to groupings and so more organised forms of infraction, without ever being dealt with in their origin, which would be the easiest and most efficient. And I've been talking about many previous years. The issue of security is very high on the agenda today and often comes and comes back, sometimes justified and sometimes for purely micro-political and impressive reasons. I would like you to allow me, given that today the President of the Police Department of Acropolis visited the Police Department to stand up to the officers there, because we had an attack on molotovs in the last few days, to say from this Step that Mr Mitsotakis' colleagues would destroy him because they forgot that the Acropolis Police Department closed down on a new Republic under Mr Dendia's office. The police station was closed in 2014 following a series of arson attacks and could not be dealt with. Then the pretext was used that Amnesty International had been denounced for detention conditions. Neither was the real cause honoring the then leadership nor, of course, the pretext. I would also remind you that Mr Mitsotakis, who is protesting all of this today, has done away with the Municipal Police in one night, without even passing the responsibilities of the Police. Then a huge gap was created in the action of the Greek Police. The Municipal Police were the result of demands from citizens, municipalities, the police union, precisely because the security issue is much larger and it concerns much more than the police action itself, which, of course, has a key role in security matters. But the issue is more comprehensive and it concerns local government, civil society, institutions and, of course, the Greek police. So the late interest that has emerged today, the Greek Police, for its part, is dealing with it by design and operational efficiency, even though we, of course, also recognise that the police have subsidized problems. I would remind you that six thousand seven hundred Greek police posts were abolished overnight. And then today, some political forces, New Democracy, assuming that it comes to things, in relation to the rule of one by one - which we have worked with so that we can just cover and serve critical areas of the social state - ask for one to be restored to five. He's not asking. It's a programming statement. That all means we're in trouble. I have also heard today 'of high intensity is violence or low intensity is violence, it is the same'. And I understand now and I interpret why Mr. Mitsotakis did not react or try to cover up Mr. Georgiadis' counselor when he was convicted of paedophilia. Because low infraction and high infraction are the same. Violence is the same. That's how it's interpreted. I have heard the fact - and this is violence again - that the Prime Minister dares to go without cages and MATs in Macedonia. This is called incitement to violent acts. And I didn't hear anything about the big business that dismantled two hundred and fifty people, who acted with robberies in houses, thefts, drugs in the center of Athens. There was an operation in Arachobian occupation and other homes in one day. For this big business, not one "congratulations" said to the Greek police. And you know what it means to two hundred and fifty people to leave the robbery, theft, the drugs. So that's for the big picture. And also, for the big picture, to cover the part of the center of Athens, say two things by the way. In the center of Athens, the project "PERSEOS", which has skills and cooperation with many different police forces in different directions, is being implemented. It has already started and gradually formed another picture in the center of Athens - it can be seen - and around the University of Economics, which we had the problems, in the field of Mars, at Philippi, in Monastiraki, in the area of the Law School. This image has already been changed by means of a coordinated plan and action by the Greek Police.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u11	Madam Secretary, you have a second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u12	I will end and in dentistry I will give you the details you have asked of the West Attica.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Carras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for the information, but to remind you that I am not an apologist to Mr Mitsotakis, nor are we following his positions and his policy on security. Therefore, the debate on these points may be interesting, but you understand, as you agree, that the subject of my question is different, because it concerns localised municipalities in western Athens and not the centre of Athens and the wider region. I'm talking about a different form of crime. Perhaps this is the fourth time I have said so, Mr President. I didn't talk about serious crime, I didn't talk about drugs. I have talked about the day-to-day security of these densely populated areas, where people often fear - I do not know if they are in danger - to release and many people are closed in their homes. And why does that come about, Minister? Because, from the evidence - you cannot question them too - we see in the police departments what the strength each has to have - the security departments or the class divisions - and how they are subordinated. Of course, the four years that we have spent, let me say, does not give you an alibi to go back to the past, again repeating that I am not an apology to Mr Mitsotakis, nor will I ever be, and I have to say that. I would therefore remind you, Minister, of the newspaper “KATHMERINI” which tells us the following and has not been questioned with a reply from the Ministry, dated 30 January 2019: “In the Aegean Police Department has an organic composition of a hundred and twenty persons, they serve fifty-five at the Ilio Police Department, which has sixty-five organic posts, they serve thirty-eight”. These are really gaps, they cannot be called into question and they are not linked to the issues of the past. A significant number of graduates have come out of the productive schools in the police. Every year there are young policemen who can head for them too. And you know what, Minister - and I must say it - the lack of policing is not just about repression anymore in these areas. We're also interested in prevention. And crime prevention is not about arresting them. Prevention is done with the security that is created in the world, people, to feel that there is a presence of the police and, furthermore, to prevent illegal acts, illegality. We call for this prevention for the region of western Athens, with the presence of patrols, the manipulation of police stations, so that the candidate offender feels the "breath" of the law. The lack of policing has even heard a typical expression the other day. "Ministership" they called it. Here too, Mr President, I would like to refer a referral back to the question, with an experience of court proceedings, of law. You know, Minister, as you know, that when there is a subconfidence there are some small mafias in the neighborhood, in the sense of protecting the shops, they will not be the subject of thefts against economic exchanges. We have reached these areas in the substitution of public power by these little mafias, let us call them, which are the well-known protections that "you know, your store is not in danger, your home is not in danger, because I will have a small consideration or a larger, depending on the owner's assets" and will provide protection on a fee and will be deprived of the protection of the public police force. No one can question the effort made by the police, but these shortcomings, Madam Minister, to finish this, give me the opportunity to tell you this. After four years, a lot about the past and dissolution of sections has been heard. Four years later, however, I do not think that it is sufficient justification to invoke them again as arguments to justify gaps or shortcomings for this reason. Society is alive, societies live. If, then, we always invoke shortcomings and deficits of the past in order to transfer responsibility to others, you understand that we no longer act. So the four years, I will insist, should have solved the issue. I have given you examples of this, and I shall refer to my dentistry in the last examples.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Carras, slow down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u16	I shall conclude, Mr President. I do not want to mention, of course, the incidents of sport in Agaleo, because I think it is not related to the subject of my question. It's another fact of athletic violence. It was just the time of the debate to invoke it, and what it says "coopers have entered a basketball game". For God's sake, there's no more polite sport than basketball. Still, hooders came in. I will expect full answers, Minister, about the region of western Athens, about the seven municipalities where their residents live.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Carras. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u19	Be well. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u20	Mr Carras, yes, of course, I mentioned all this about the past, because you know that since 2014, since we have been discussing up to now, the Memorandum Restrictions have not allowed the number of recruitments to be opened up. In that sense I mentioned it and that these thousands of posts that were abolished then could not be replaced. That's why I mentioned it, without that mean...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u21	Forgive me, in productive schools...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u22	In the productive schools, the number is very small and is completed each year. These people go to school every year, but unfortunately the number is small in relation to the Greek police obligations which, as far as we go, are becoming more and more, for reasons that are not at the moment to analyse them. But you understand that needs require more work on the police side than they were several years ago and need not go hand in hand with what we have to do. However, efforts have been made. The great effort was to make hundreds of policemen last month out of official posts, offices, etc. to get them on the road. The project "PERSEEOS", implemented in November, is the project of visible policing. It is precisely what you are saying, that is to say, deterrence, of a small, low-injuriousness, but above all it is intended to prevent and to see the citizen of the police next to him. This is an effort that has begun and is done and the results are visible. I didn't say we'd solve the problems. I said, however, that we have improved. With these plans, I'd like to tell you the numbers for the West Attica. The changes in thefts and burglaries were in 2017 eight thousand four hundred thirty seven, in 2018 they were six thousand nine hundred eleven. The decrease is about 18%.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u23	Forgive me. Small crime is not denounced because it is not.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Carras, you don't sound. There's no record of anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u25	I told you about thefts and the burglaries. That's what I mean. With regard to thefts, from four and a half thousand we had in 2017 we had three thousand in 2018. We also had a reduction in theft of wheels and in robberies we still had a reduction. In any case, these are the real facts with rates that show the trend, but it does not mean that problems have been solved. In order to deal with the situation, as you have said, synergies are indeed needed, and the bodies and municipal authorities, citizens' initiatives, associations, such as street lighting, use of areas and so on, and so on, can all act dissuasively to crime. Since May 2015, the police have implemented a special policing plan for the West Attica region, taking into account existing needs. The West Attica Police Department has been created. I've already signed the relevant decision to place the police director there. This will be done within the next few days. This measure, together with the 'PERSCEOS' programme, which is being implemented, is of the opinion that it will strengthen policing in the region. Three on-board general policing teams and traffic control workshops are active in West Attica every day. In the area of Race, Zephyrios and Aspropyrgos, he operates a special group of six other police officers. In the areas of Acharnon, Peristeri, Saints Anargyra, Kamaterou, the institution of the neighborhood police is applied. In Mandras, Megaron, the institution of mobile police units is applied. Regular specific operational actions and exorbitances are carried out by mixed groupings for policing in more sensitive areas, such as Roma camps, for example. They act on a 24-hour basis Crime Prevention and Suppression Teams, OPCWs, two-cycle policing by the DIA Group, car accident control and prevention teams. The police presence was strengthened by the establishment and operation of a police department. A memorandum of cooperation between the Hellenic Police and the Municipality of Phyllis has been entered into force since 2016. In the 2019 regular moves - they are on the agenda in June - the organic positions with fifty-five lieutenants, sergeants, lieutenants and police officers and thirty special guards will be covered. Also, the Western Attica Police Directorate will also be strengthened with newly recruited sergeants. With regard to the incident of the robbery you mentioned, you obviously know that the perpetrators were found and arrested the next day and were brought to the prosecutor. As we have said, and I repeat, we will take out many police officers and make daily police officers from offices and agencies, which can work differently, on the road, to deal with this minor inconsistency, which you are talking about. We have already made progress in reducing the staff capacity of all the services based in Attica and we continue methodically in the same logic. We're trying to do this in a balanced way, because the cops really don't have to go anywhere. It's not that big a number of them. I have told you that a downward trend in this daily infraction is being recorded. Crime and infringibility and Western Attica as well as everywhere, want plan and operational efficiency. That's exactly what the Greek police do. It wants a plan, which is not static, but is constantly formed on the basis of data. Without many words and impressions, work is done. We'll try more. It's not just things and it's not simple to say that the Greek police can act in one day and eliminate crime and infraction. It's a continuous exercise. I, for one, prefer to my logic that a business brings results when it has been proven to have arrests, not incests. Incubations may also be an accidental man. So, the number of incubators is not a satisfactory number, it's for the sight. The arrests - and you know it well - are the ones that bind a case and have real guilts. The Head of Headquarters and the Chief of the Greek Police, that is, the physical leadership, moves in this sense. Of course, this funny thing, which is said and heard, is that the political leadership has not done too much or too much with the bad guys in whatever form, I think it is a funny argument. To scare society in addition to what is happening to it, in addition to the violence of the memoranda that has lived, which also has the form in which we are discussing today, I think it is a simple attempt to put fear into people's souls. The afraid citizen is not an active citizen, he is a manipulative citizen. That's what they're trying to do. So we are not going to follow that logic. We'll make every effort. We will work with all our powers to make the Greek citizen safe. It's a component of democracy. It is a very serious matter for someone to play with. However, we will not give in to the great noise and, as we have said, the positive news is not said, the big news is not announced. It is even - they are selectively drawn from the police briefings and create a climate. He has chosen a part of the political system, because in the field of economy he loses, to play in the field of insecurity and fear. They're also unrepentant. It can't be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Minister. I deliberately left so much time, because it is a big deal of time and time, so answers were given.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u27	If you'll excuse me, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u28	It's out of the process, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u29	Let me mention for the statistics that there are no complaints of micro-parapathy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Colleague, you're not listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u31	Please, Mr President, I am tabling a number of documents for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Interior Mr Panagiotis Skourletis George seeks permission from his absence abroad from Friday 8 March 2019 until Monday 11 March 2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u33	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, the Member, Mr Asterios Castoris, is seeking permission from his absence abroad in the same days. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u34	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Finally, MP B' Thessaloniki of the Democratic Association Mr Georgios Arvanitides is requesting permission from his short-day absence abroad for party reasons of representation of the Democratic Association Parliamentary Group at the German SPD Conference from 13 March 2019 until 16 March 2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u35	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The Minister for the Environment and Energy, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister for Economy and Development, the Minister for Home Affairs, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Citizen Protection, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Infrastructure and Transport, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, Deputy Ministers of Finance, Health, Economy and Energy, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Economy and Development, Economic and Development, Economic and Energy, submitted a draft law on 1 March 2019: ‘Research, exploitation and management of the country's geothermal potential, establishment of the Greek Geological and Mining Research Authority, ownership separation of natural gas distribution networks and other provisions’. The above draft law has been classified by the Government as urgent and has been referred to the relevant Standing Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute on the question that has not been answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u37	I thought you referred to before. But you have the floor soon to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u38	I will be very brief, Mr President. When the question of the property commitment by the superstition was raised, property was included in the area of western Athens, namely the closed gym in which the youth is sporting, the Center of Daily Care for the Elderly, in which the municipalities are managed, but because they had not been registered...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u39	Don't develop the question now. Just your objection, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u40	My objection is that while I asked the Minister for Finance from 31-10-2018, Mr. Tsakalotos, to address the subject, he was then placed as a third cycle due to no reply within a month. For eight consecutive meetings, he has declared a workload. After that, I have addressed the President of Parliament with the appropriate measures in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u41	It was recorded, Mr. Carras, thank you very much. We must hope for many years and publicly to President Voutsi and Mr Mitsotakis. Wishes to all, many years long, good continuity and good rest to all of you. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-04-S1-commons.u42	The sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 5 March 2019 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: a debate on the report of the Intergroup parliamentary committee on demographics, in accordance with Rule 45(22) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the special agenda.
