ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 21-2-2019, the minutes of the PLAC Sessions of Thursday 21 February 2019 were ratified under the responsibility of the Bureau, with regard to the adoption of the draft law as a whole: "For the ratification of concessions concluded between the Greek State and the Port Authority S.A.". - Provisions for the functioning of the port governance system and other provisions'.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Monday 25 February 2019. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 374/19-2-2019 of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skouriakou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Reported abolition of DU Acharon". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 366/18-2-201819 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "The situation in the "DIA" Group of Piraeus". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 365/18-2-2018 by Mr Georgios Vlachos and Mr Georgios Vlachos to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: ‘Police extracts from the South-East Attica departments to strengthen the Attica Police Operations Directorate’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 367/18-2-2018 by the Independent Member of the Messinia, Dimitrios Koukoutsi to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "The increase in Roma crime in the Messinia region has exceeded every limit". 3. The 349/11-2-2019 topical question by MP II of the New Democracy, Mr Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis to the Minister of Health, regarding the radio medicine. 4. The 338/7-2-2019 topical question by MP II of the Democratic Association Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Annextic policing - high crime in the municipalities of western Athens". 5. The 355/12-2-2019 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance about the "providing the real estate to a Public Property Company (ETAD)". 6. The Question No 350/11-2-2019 by Mr Georgios Vlachos and Mr Georgios Vlachos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: ‘The Support Account of the National Bank of Greece (LEPETE)’. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Mr Leonida Gregorakos, Member of the Commission. — (ES) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his answer. 8. The 351/11-2-2019 topical question by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association, Mr Ioannis Koutsoukou, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The feasibility and moderation of the transfer to the supreme building required by the lenders of fifty of the public buildings in the Municipality of Pyrgos". 9. The 344/11-2-2019 topical question by the Independent MP from Athens Mr. Efstathiou (Stathhi) Panagoulis to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: “By chemical and trabucism, they tried to dismantle the peaceful palliative for Macedonia in the Constitution.” 10. The 328/4-2-2019 top-level question by MP I Athens of New Democracy Mr.Kissos Kikilis to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Decisions of the highest leadership in the Armed Forces (ED)". 11. The question raised by Mr Leonida Gregorakos, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Leonidas Gregorakos, Minister for Health, on the subject of delays in the crossing of patients from the EKA in intensive treatment units due to a lack of medical personnel. 12. The 332/5-2-2019 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, on "the chronic problems of the Psychiatric Clinic of the University General Hospital of Heraklion (PANGN)". 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The 329/4-2-2019 topical question by the Deputy Drama of New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Health, on the subject: ‘Creation of a short-stay section - oncological clinic at the General Hospital of Drama’. 14. Observed. The 322/4-2-2019 topical question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Constantine Barriot, to the Minister of Health, on 'Supports of chemistry'. 15. The 299/28-1-2019 topical question by MP Serres of Democratic Incorporation, Mr Michael Jellée, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Increased infractions in Serres Law and the Serres Police Department." 16. Observations of the Committee of the Regions The Question No 262/9-1-2019 by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Emergent need to increase the military service". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1867/25-9-2018 question by MP Chios of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Michaelides to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Protecting the traditional settlement - historical site Kampos Chios and its surroundings from excessive taxation and building." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 4065/5-12-2018 of the Deputy Drama of the New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Health, on "on the support of the multivalent Doxato doctor in the Municipality of Doxatos in the Prefecture of Dramas from the State". 3. The question by number 2932/31-10-2018 question by MP II of the Democratic Incorporation Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The release of the Municipal Closed Gymnasium of the 2nd High School of Agia Varvaras from the Supreme Court".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In today's newsletter there were four topical questions scheduled for debate, which will not be discussed for reasons which I shall speak immediately. The second question under number 358/15-2-2019 of the first cycle of the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Integration Mr. Odyssey Constantinople to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "At what stage is the project to attract visitors to Lake Lada, amounting to EUR 1,89.618?", will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The fourth under number 279/15-1-2019 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Direct actions to introduce Crete into the transport equivalent", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of Deputy Minister of Shipping and Island Policy Mr.Nectarios Santoriniou. The reason for this is that the same question as the honourable Member himself has been discussed before. Also, the fourth under number 357/13-2-2019 topical question for the first cycle of MP in Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Delay in the restoration of inequalities to professional farmers - owners of photovoltaic stations", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr. George Stathakis. The reason for this is the workload. Finally, the second question with number 369/18-2-2018, on the subject: "Do not settle by PPC wind park above Marmari Evia", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister for the Environment and Energy Mr. Georgios Stathakis. The reason for this is the workload. There is also the letter from the Secretary of Government for all the above. So we begin the debate with the first under number 363/18-2-2019 on the first question by MP Kavala of the New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy on the subject: ‘Extension of the rental of buildings in Kavala Naval Group (NOK) and Kavala Maritime Sports Group (OTHAK)’. The current question will be answered by the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr Fotios Kouvelis. Here, Mr. Panayotopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, two historical shipping clubs in the city of Kavala with a rich history of discrimination in a pan-Hellenic range, a strong sporting presence on the wet track today and a huge social offer in the city of Kavala, are facing the spectrum of economic catastrophe and, on the other hand, on a more realistic basis of the suspension - partly or totally - parts of their operation. This is because on Monday we are running out of time. On Monday, a public auction will be held in two properties that the unions are exploiting - and the only, basic revenue needed for its operation - which are located in the area of the Central Port of Kavala. These two properties had been erected in the past at the exclusive costs of unions, which also cover maintenance and operation costs, as I said, in the port area, which had previously been allocated to unions in use by the port committee in those years. Later, the Kavala Port Authority responsible for the management since 2003 of the land zone of the port of Kavala leased these buildings to the two associations with a private lease agreement of 15 years until December 2018. It has been over this period, and a three-month extension has been granted by the port agency to resolve the matter, which ends within the days. The port agency has responded negatively to the request from the two associations to renew the rental, and recently announced the declaration of the public auction on 25 February, which I spoke about. As you can see, the problem is immediate and urgent. We met at a working meeting, which I at least described as beneficial and essential in December at the Ministry. I think you understood the problem. I also told you that this problem is very likely to be dealt with by many maritime clubs, whose facilities are located in the terrestrial ports around Greece and we have worked out scenarios for solutions. The question, as you can see, is that, given the fact that the tender will take place, Mr. and the renter, is the port agency, and that the unions are somehow hosted in the area, but having raised the buildings at their own expense, which are now rented in sanitary shops, which are companies which have already invested in them, in order to obtain their only income, with Monday's evolution, I would say a stage in which they are now in doubt, and I would say their survival. Do you intend to arrange - and this is my question - for the benefit of both unions so that their economic destruction and their dissolution may not begin a week ago? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u5	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, we did have a constructive debate on this issue in the port of Kavala. I must point out that the building facilities where the Naval Group Kavala and the Maritime Sports Group are housed are located within the land area of the port of Kavala, and their management, as you rightly pointed out, is the responsibility of the "Organization of Port of Kavala S.A." under contract since 15 January 2003 between the Greek State and the organisation. The buildings you mentioned were allocated in 2003 by decision of the Board of Directors of the Kavala Port Authority to the Maritime Sports Group and the Cavalas Naval Group. Those concessions expired on 11 December 2018 and 5 December 2018 respectively. The body, as legally required, therefore proceeded with the preparation of the relevant notices for a tendering procedure for the concession of these buildings. The port agency, in understanding the problem of the housing of the two maritime groups, has taken care to ensure that within the competitive procedures it meets the printing requirements of the groups and has set a provision - that is to say - in the declarations and in particular in Article 8 of the Declarations. There it is explicitly foreseen that the user will be provided with a designated space for the accommodation of the offices of the maritime groups and of the OHIM in the respective buildings. This clearly shows that there is not only an intention on the part of the Agency to drive away groups from the buildings but, on the contrary, to ensure that they remain in them and not just without payment of a price.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u7	Here, Mr. Panayotopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u8	Minister, you told us that a special condition would be added to the tender with the care of the port agency, which would ensure the housing of the unions in the offices where they were housed and to which they are still housed. But that is not the main problem. The main problem is that since Monday and after the competition has evolved, there is a majority and he is taking over, the unions will now finally and irrevocably dismiss the income from the holding on terms of renting, in some way, of these two buildings. That is the main problem. Without this basic for their operation, they will be at risk of dismantling. And the point I raised to you at the meeting we held on 10 December is how this unfavourable development will be prevented. It's not that much of an office. After all - someone could say what will happen if the new bidder, the new user or the present ones, the ones who are now in the auction, are being bid out. It is another dimension, a businessman who is suddenly called upon to participate in the tender and if he does not sell, collect and leave, canceling his investment, creating sanitary shops in those buildings. If, then, they lose this income, they are literally lost. No one can ensure that the new user can respect this prediction, and provide the home office with the basis of the two unions. That is another matter, though. The unions, in fact, are burning and worrying, because they will lose from Monday onwards, the basic revenue that allowed them to function. We were talking about the Ministry of Legislation, which would pay a service compensation for the costs of building the two buildings, since they were only covered by the unions. Unfortunately, this arrangement did not come. Here I will say that we have lost a very good opportunity, since yesterday we were discussed in your Parliament plenary bill of your own, the Ministry of Shipping, concerning the ratification of a concession agreement for parts of the ten ports of the country, including the port of Kavala, between the Greek State and the relevant port agencies, so that the country and these ten ports can be exploited, even partially, by granting them the use of an investor that will arise. It could have introduced this special provision into this bill, which ensures, if anything, that unions have an economic gain on the fact that on Monday they lose the only revenue that allowed them to function. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I repeat that we may find this in front of us and in many ports of Greece, because traditionally there they develop their facilities like once their coaches, when sea sports, the wet track was at sea. Now in the other facilities there may also be offices throughout Greece, in all ports several unions. It happened that the two unions of Kavala were the first to face this particular situation. But - and I close it, Mr President - the main issue here is, in a way, that there should be financial cover for the unions, perhaps in the way we discussed together, that is, legislation on compensation for expenditure incurred on the building of the two buildings. The port agency didn't build them, the unions built them in the port organisation...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Panagiotopoulos, we love Kavala, but you have to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u10	I have to explain this, Mr President, because it is a special issue and a very special issue for me, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u11	Good. Minister, here you go, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Comrade, Mr. Panayotopoulos, there are two issues. One question is what you have raised in principle and I have answered that there will not be the removal of these sports clubs from the existing building facilities, because in the competitive process there is the condition in the relevant contract, that anyone who takes these buildings under the lease contract should keep the offices of these two unions inside. On the second point you raised, in fact, there is one point that these buildings were made at the expense of sports clubs themselves. There is therefore a claim on the part of unions that there should be a regulation, at least with regard to the costs of building these two buildings, and this is being dealt with. I can tell you nothing more for any other reason, but because it is a complex legal issue in relation to both the existing legislation and the decisions that the Port Authority can take as well as any organisation. There is no problem in other ports, at least from what I am able to know and I know similar to that of the port of Kavala. But I would like to assure you that yesterday's bill was not possible, because the contents of the bill were different. It was about concessions. What I must say to you, however, or more precisely to repeat what we have said in our extremely fruitful debate at the Ministry, is that we are looking for a concrete way to ensure that the sports clubs operating in Kavala and having their facilities in the port of Kavala do not, as you said, lead to their dissolution. This is a reassurance on our part and I would like to tell you that we are working in this direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u13	We ask two topical questions, which will be answered by the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Constantine Gavroglou. One is the third with number 368/18-2-201819, the first question of the Greek Communist Party MP, Yiannis Delis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The situation in the field of special education and education following the resolution of Law 4547/2018 on the New Structures". Here, Mr Delis, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. Unfortunately, Minister, developments following the resolution of Law 4547 last June, on the so-called support structures of education, are revealing and unfortunately verifying the JRC's negative estimates of this law very quickly. The abolition and typically from December of the CEDEFOPs, which, although basically late due to their subsistence, have diagnosed and described the specific difficulty and have certainly introduced an appropriate school framework for every child with special educational needs, has therefore been abolished by the CEDEFOP since December last year. At the moment, as he knows, of course, the Ministry has frozen and are waiting for thousands of appointments with children who have been waiting for months, in order to obtain an opinion that he will identify, of course, after an interdisciplinary approach, the kind of difficulty and will recommend that the necessary special educational intervention and, of course, the appropriate educational framework, while the new cases of children who are identified and need to be given special educational intervention, not least at the moment, Mr Minister, in the public sector, since the JEPS, these centres which have replaced the CEDEFOPs, are at present in a situation of particular precipitation, mainly preparing the so-called 'individual programmes for the special intervention of students in general school'. In the past few days, we have heard the Director of the Ministry speak of the nine additional CNS. They announced, of course, and concern six in Attica, two in Thessaloniki and one in Patras. However, these are essentially on paper, after looking for buildings to be housed and their only staffing so far are their heads and nothing else. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] According to the Director of Special Education of the Ministry of Education, these centres, i.e. the JSYs, are intended to operate in September next. Again, according to the same director, all that meets the requirements of operation at the moment and can possibly be the Eastern Thessaloniki KESY. Look, Minister, it is very important to us if they are called CSCEs if they will be called CSCEs. What we are asking you for is that, for every child who needs a special educational intervention, there must of course be timely prerequisites for this child, of course, by the responsible state interdisciplinary body - regardless of what he will call himself - and these prerequisites are interdisciplinary advice - we insist on an evaluation report and not an evaluation report - and then support it in the appropriate school framework, based, of course, on its identified specific needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Deli, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u16	I shall conclude, Mr President. In short, Minister, we ask you to tell us what you are going to do so that all the children and those who are waiting for will receive the necessary advice, and all the new cases that are identified, without, of course, having any burden on their parents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u17	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Delis, your party has an obsession with the word 'directly'. A few weeks ago in the House you said "direct appointment of twenty-five thousand teachers". I tried to ask what system, by what procedure, your party's secretary came and the only answer I got is not to keep having the look I have. No answer, no suggestions. You're doing the same now. Evidently, you have voted against the new structures with the New Democracy. Because we are convinced that there are political forces and, unfortunately, your party has a momentum in this direction, the worse it is considered for the party. It is a political culture that you have not only, but it also has the Civic Opposition. These new institutions come to replace the old one and come to upgrade him with a multidisciplinary presence of individuals with different specialties. As you are well aware, we are the government that recruited most for special treatment. Half our assistant teachers are in Special Education. We proceed to the notice of the first permanent recruitment for Special Education. And we think that these initiatives and this framework alone cannot be invoked. As regards your specific question, you also said that there are nine new NCAs. Nine new RFS is a 30% increase of the existing ones, as you know. So is the number of experts who will be employed in them. There is an increase in organic positions, the recruitment of psychologists, the recruitment of all kinds of qualified personnel, which is a 30% increase. Now, is everything ideal? The answer is that they are obviously not ideal. They are not ideal, because you know that we have found a situation, not a situation of subsistence - something more tragic than subsistence - in the new financial possibilities and, above all, in the new institutional framework, we are proposing this increase in recruitment of staff and the creation of these new centres. For the pressure and the time to which you referred, there was indeed that in the old, but it is in an institutional framework that we found so and that is exactly what we are going to improve. I would therefore say that we need to recognise the very positive element of this new situation and, on this basis, see some malfunctions that can be improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-nine students and students and six teachers from the General School of Velos Korinthias. Before I welcome you to the House, I would like to inform you that you are currently watching a day of parliamentary scrutiny. What does that mean? It means that the MPs, particularly the Vice-President, have the right to ask questions to the ministers, and so in the Chamber there is the MEP who asks questions and the Minister responsible for answering them. Hence, you see this picture in the Chamber. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. I will try to reply to the Minister for Education, who, in most of his reply, did not actually respond to the issues that we raised with our question and which are very specific. It is about the enormous anticipation of thousands of children in order to obtain this much-conscious opinion, resulting in a lot of them - what they can at least - to resort to the private sector where, of course, we all know that this is being paid for. He accused us of having an obsession with immediate solutions. Yes, Minister, the people's needs cannot wait. They've waited for so many years. And they've been waiting four years since your government. And you can't come four years later and tell us "so we found them, what to do." And what have you done to serve these centres that give these opinions? Nothing at all. You continued the same policy. These centres - and I am talking about the CEDEFOP - were starting to work in the first few months, not in the autumn, but in winter. They were then sufficiently commanded, resulting, of course, in the gathering of thousands of children who were asking for these opinions. However, I would like to say something about the ERCFs, which are succeeding in CEDEFOPs and, as I said at the outset, they will simply draw up evaluation reports and not opinions. Their responsibilities have increased. And we have to inform you here that the ERCFs will not only be involved in special education, but will also be involved in school guidance, and that they will also be involved in the advisory support for young people. In other words, the scope of their interests is widened. However, their staff remain the same, if not reduced. Permanent workers, few, few and few permanent employees of CEDEFOP shall be transferred to persons. And 'personal positions' means that when these workers are retired, they will of course not be replaced and we all understand what that means. What matters, however, is that the process of accessing children with disabilities is also changing in these ERCs, in these advisory centres, from what was done until before the CEDEFOPs. When children are identified in a general school who have difficulties and need special support, then according to the law you have passed, the educational support team of this school, set up by the existing school staff and with no special teacher in most cases, so this team is formulating and implementing a personalised programme for each child exclusively within the general school. The fact that this group is envisaged, in accordance with the law, to cooperate with the ERCD, is doubtful whether this cooperation will be of a substantial nature and because of the workload of the ERCF and because of their subscribing. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But what do we have here? We have, Minister, the unacceptable transfer of responsibility for identifying and meeting the specific needs of pupils from an appropriate state multidisciplinary body at the general school, and indeed in the name of integration and equal treatment of these children. Which families will the children pay for this change? Which children, that is, will they actually become experimental animals? But, of course, the children of the poor, the people's families - and these are not very few because of your policy - who of course have such learning and specialists...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Delia, please, close.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u22	I shall conclude, Mr President. And where will they run? In hospitals or in private. In other words, we have an indirect impulse, an indirect change in the nature of the special treatment in their medical treatment. Of course, here we all know - and there is no need to be a scientist - that, once this first approach has been taken before the general school itself, a valuable time has been lost, which can be fatal for the further development of this child. It is an intervention, which will certainly not be based on any multidisciplinary opinion. Excuse me, but this is not an upgrade of special treatment, Minister. It's called degradation. And you have a huge responsibility for this. I would remind you now that you are very proud of your policy on special education, special education, that it is your own government that carried private parallels not only in general schools, but also in special schools. It's in article 28 of the law...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u23	All right, please hang up, Mr. Deli.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u24	I'm closing, Mr. President. There has been no appointment, and at the moment most special schools have serious housing problems, plus only 3%, up to the maximum, of pupils in need of special treatment in the public sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u25	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u26	First of all, welcome the school. If you can stay then, we can have a debate in this House as soon as I'm done with my obligations, then the next question, since you're from high school. It'll be a great pleasure. Mr. Delia, I was afraid of your first question, because I didn't see you accusing us of privatising everything. Fortunately, you have said so in your dentistry and I reassured myself that the JRC, in any case, has not lost its basic criticism that says that firstly, it is our fault and secondly, what we are doing is to privatise everything. Look, we are not saying 'that's how we found it'. We say 'what we found, we want to change them'. Now, we may have made mistakes. Especially in this case, we think that we have taken a very modern and pedagogic step too important. And that is the fact that we have also given the opportunity - what you said to the opinion, evaluation, the whole thing - for the educational community to have a say on them. Are you questioning the possibility of a few children with slight conditions being treated at school, or do we have to medicalize everything, and once we see anything, send it? I think it is a mistaken concept and, above all, it does not give the teachers a say. To find good ways, to find effective ways, I agree with all this. However, teachers must also be able to deal first with these problems. I insist that it is a miserable criticism that we do not do things for special education. I would ask you to see the numbers. This is the first time that there have been so many recruitments, this is the first time that permanent appointments will be made. These are good for our society. Let us not overlook it, and let us not think that behind all of this there is a privatization plan to tackle these problems. I welcome the fact that the Greek society, with confidence in those institutions that are created and in the tendencies shown by the government, now has a positive attitude to how these children will be able to cope with an uneasy future. In this at the first moment - it is not a matter as long as the specific political leadership of the Ministry of Education - we have shown not only a sensitivity, but also a practical contribution to solving this type of problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u27	We continue with the first with the number 364/18-2-201819 topical question of the second question of the New Democracy MP, Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: ''Clearers' and opaque processes for the Greek Open University'. Mr Katsaniotis, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to welcome the students as well. Minister, we have recently witnessed in Patras a series of publications concerning the merger of part or all of the Western Greece TEI with the Open University. The Open University in Patras has twenty years of operation, it has forty - two thousand students active and you have already created several problems in the last four years. I will only mention where the problems that you have created seem: Reduction of students concerned from 2015 until today, from thirty thousand applications to seven thousand and a reduction of registered students from 2015 to today, despite the fact that you are increasing the departments. But that's not the point. The point is that without any information from the Foundation, the appointed President of the Open University comes from you and announces his intention - certainly in consultation with you and without any academic criteria - to merge the Open University with the TEI of Western Greece. Minister, in none of Europe's 10 Open Universities there is such a merger, there is no double-policy of this type. And not only that, but in the proposal of the appointed president, all the dean of the Open University react. Because we're talking about thousands of people, because we're talking about hundreds of teachers, because we're talking about Patras, which should become a point of knowledge, Minister, tell us clearly: Have you decided to merge the TEI with the Open University? Tell us clearly what your goal is, what the Western Greece TEI will be. Twenty-two thousand students, six cities, over a hundred and twenty permanent members of the board wait for those children who were here...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u29	Forty, not a hundred and twenty.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u30	LAG Members in Western Greece? One hundred and fifteen at the TEI.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u31	Forty-one at Open University. That's why you're asking me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u32	No, no. For the Western Greek TEI...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u33	Don't have a dialogue, please. The Minister will answer. Continue and close, Mr. Catsaniotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u34	The Western Greece TEI I told you about is on hold. I said it, a hundred and thirty-five members. So these kids should know what public university they're getting into. Mergers without any academic criterion create confusion and destroy rather than build.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u35	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u36	Mr Katsaniotis, you know, too many times disaster is the result of ignorance. You will allow me to tell you that you have not come in well read. I thank you, however, for the timely question, because it is the first time today that the Ministry of Education will take an official stand on all the questions you ask. First, you know that distance education, which in Greece has the Greek Open University, the EPA, goes hand in hand with the development of technology. But what matters nowadays is that what technology allows is not compulsory and distance learning. I hope you understand that. They are MOOCS, the so-called 'Massive Online Open Courses', which are not remote. The basic distance is the potential for interactivity, i.e. either through technology - Skype, for example, is a simple, say, response to it - or the fact that it is with teachers once a month or a half a month. But what is of enormous importance is to see what international and European trends are today. International and European trends are the convergence of traditional methods with distance teaching, the hybrid patterns are. Today the biggest initiative taken in Europe is the creation of new European universities, which have no exclusive reference to spatiality. The European Union is investing billions in this project where, for example, the University of Rome, the University of Munich and the University of Copenhagen, for example, will give a single degree. Here, therefore, there will be a complementary regime of traditional methods and distances. Of course, it's not just a matter of methodology. It is also a matter of content, but this will create a new culture of education. You know, if you see the major universities we report here each time to copy them, such as Harvard, such as Sorbonne, they have such methods, but we also have Greece. FORTH along with University Publications of Crete, which is not a commercial company, has excellent methods, as well as many postgraduate curriculum programs. We say, therefore, that such tendencies must also enter our country. The distance must be contaminated by traditional methods and vice versa. And we need to realise that a historical cycle is closed throughout the world for those institutions that are exclusively providing distance education. In our country, the Greek Open University, is one of the most successful institutions. It would be foolish for a government to want to undermine him. There is no need for special knowledge to understand that. The question, however, is: do we have scope for upgrading? Is the current situation a situation that leads to a positive, modern pedagogical, upgraded future? The answer is that, as it is, no. So what do we say? We propose the establishment of a second university in Patras. At this university, the structure of the NSA will go as it is and will have traditional divisions. This structure of the ESDP will be able to be upgraded not only through synergies, but also through the possibilities of a much larger university. That's the logic. The LAG members, the teachers of the Open University will stay in this structure. They're not going anywhere else. They'll keep doing the same job.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u37	The rest in dentistry, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u38	Good. I'm stopping and continuing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u39	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u40	Here or you will ask timely questions or a timely question. I'm leaving you double time, because it's only four today. If he had fifteen, as yesterday, I would have been interrupted by ministers and MPs much earlier. To conclude, Minister, for one minute, so that we do not allow him to complain that he did not hear the answer. Keep going, please, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u41	But I have a feeling that I keep answering what my colleague asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u42	On what he asked now...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u43	I didn't hear what he asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u44	All of the TEI or half of the TEI?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u45	I will tell you that then, because you need to understand our overall logic of approach to the Greek Open University. I'll tell you later about the TEI. For the time being, we have stayed in that ICP members can continue to do what they do.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u46	Mr Katsaniotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u47	Minister, since we are talking about who is read and who is inexperienced, I have here 'indisputable' - they are all 'undisclosed' - deans of the Open University and I will file it in the Minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u48	I assume the word 'unseen' is in introductory form.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u49	That's what he said about me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u50	I'm saying it for the record.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u51	Of course. The "spatial" dean lists Europe's 10 Open Universities, which are similar to the Open University of Patras. Everything was based on Open University's logic when they started. None of this has any other type of teaching beyond distance. Secondly, you who are very read, why didn't you come from the beginning, Minister, say that the NSA will be upgraded, the Western Greek TEI will go there? You had to explain it to us from the beginning, so we could all accept that you have a plan. What did you do? You tried to go and merge the TEI of Western Greece with the University of Patras. When you broke your face, you went to Plan B. You put the appointed president of the OSH to propose it and in fact to have a Frankenstein in front of us. Minister, it is very important that Patra has a second university. The Western Greek TEI - I told you again - does a great job. Instead of having it as the poor relative, who one you take from here and one you take it from there, twenty thousand students hostages, so as not to count the thousands of students who have graduated, take a courageous place. The TEI of Western Greece can in itself be upgraded and become the University of Western Greece in a technological direction. Minister, you play with the future of people. Stop this game "cutting pieces", chopping with the future of young children. Do you know what our difference is, and it's great and essential? I believe in self-government education, I believe in the public nature of education. You believe in state education. You believe the Minister who gives orders and, as Mr Cardass said in an interview, the Minister will decide and I do not care what you say. That's our difference. I tell you for the last time: The Western Greece TEI can really become the University of Western Greece based in Patras and develop the part of technological education. Think about it, don't salamize it, don't do it a poor relative.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u52	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u53	Mr Katsaniotis, I hear this, it is unprecedented to become a University of Western Greece, namely to become a university of what your government has abolished. I don't know if you remember.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u54	The university?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u55	Central Greece. Isn't that what you're saying now? Instead of being Western?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u56	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u57	Do you understand what you're saying now? That's the first. Secondly, what you said could take it and put it instead of Patras, Arta, instead of Arta, Kavala, instead of Kavala, Thessaly. Because exactly the same thing your party says about anything we're going to do. There has been a new architecture in higher education here. An architecture with new departments, with synergies of departments between universities and TEI - are not mergers - with new university research centres, with a new institution, which is the two-year curriculum, which children from the PESA will enter without examinations. This is the new architecture and, on the basis of that, we can talk about it. Now, all the catastrophe and let's leave all this next door. I won't answer you if I broke my face or we didn't break our faces in Patras. I think that's not a level of discussion in this House. So what we were talking about is this. In this structure, ICPS members will continue to do what they do. The day before yesterday, the four Quaestors sent me some proposals to upgrade the Open University. I asked them. I waited a year and a half for these proposals. They literally sent them to me the other day. I state for the first time that we will accept all the proposals in their entirety to upgrade the PSC. So what's the problem? I don't understand. Thirdly, a project to run this new university will be discussed next week. Because this new university, as you can see, will have these two discrete but intercomparable functions, because in the rest of the sections children will enter with normal procedures, etc. But this will need some thoughts about the administration, things that we always do in these new architectures, because the history of an institution always needs some adjustments. So next week there will be a proposal like this. Now, what about the TEI departments, etc.Huh? We'll follow what we follow everywhere. Proposals from the bottom. That's what we've done. That's the reverse. The Ministry has not taken a single proposal that has not come underneath. It hasn't happened since 1974. Proposals coming from committees, which themselves propose, with academic character, are discussed at the congresses, etc., without a presidential decree, which will not be made public in Parliament and openly all these reports. And, of course, this also creates controversy and controversy, different opinions, different opinions that are resolved and different opinions that remain. What to do, democracy has that. We are very happy to conclude by the end of March that we will be voting in the House for all the foundations in our country on this new architecture and, as I think - a colleague from your own party, all this has been done without opening a nose. It happened without opening a nose, contrary to the "Athena" project, precisely because we respected the substance from under and under academic processes. We made mistakes? I am sure in a year we can say that that thing needs to be changed in this direction or the other. Well, now he has a healthy dynamic. We have given a hundred and fifty seats for this project and at the Rectangular Summit we will announce the creation of many more positions and money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u58	We shall now proceed to the last question which the Minister for the Interior will answer, Mr Alexandros Haritsis. It is the third with number 372/18-2-2019 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Direct restoration of the damage caused by the catastrophic floods in Chania, Rethymnon and Heraklion Prefecture and support and compensation for the injured". Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point Mr Alexis Haritsis presents for the minutes the tables mentioned above, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Minister, there have been major disasters on the island, it has literally come out of this story. Dozens of excluded villages, homes at risk of landslides, damaged provincial roads and the northern road axis from Kissamos to Hersonissos Heraklion, destroyed the rural network and other infrastructures, such as bridges. So are many homes that were found without electricity and water. In particular, in the main affected areas is Chania, which as a whole, and in particular in the municipalities of Platania and Kissamos, from nine hundred kilometres of provincial road, the five hundred are destroyed. On the national road, at the height of Stalos and Malindretou Street, which is a parallel road to the national road, in the settlement of Kato Stalos there are landslides from the first intense rainfalls of New Year's Day. Soil volumes, boulders, trees have fallen, houses hover and are ready to collapse and kill people. Residents protest the state's indifference. One takes responsibility for the other: Municipality, Region, Government. I was only informed yesterday that the municipality turned 180 degrees into his behaviour and the Municipal Council yesterday decided to take measures on the Malindretou Street, where until yesterday it said "I will not pay the bride for the responsibilities of others". It's not too late, it's never too late. However, it is a prerequisite for immediate financing from the Ministry in order to proceed with these projects so that they do not remain as a project. Just three days ago, after a month and a half, the Ministry sent you a document to the decentralised administration, the district, the Municipality of Chania and asked them for their actions. It's three lines. Not three. This is the help, unfortunately, that you have given so far. The region is whistling indifferently. I will submit the minutes of your historic document, as well as six hundred fifty signatures of the people Stalis Greek of Chania and their protest texts. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Syntrakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Since 2001, please! - they're their protests. Obviously, it is not just your responsibility, it is also the previous governments, to be precise. They carry their indignation about the state's indifference. Rethymno Prefecture, Municipality of Amari, has too much damage to the municipal network and to the rural road. Heraklion Prefecture with slightly less damage, but not negligible. At New Year's Eve we had floods in the Palaiokastro area of the Municipality of Malevizios. The huge flood disasters have had this time the tragic result, Mr President, of four dead in the Messara region of Heraklion, which have been lured from the covetous waters of Geropotamos, crossing the road. In this area there are five - six such roads crossing the river, no signs, no protective measures, no infrastructures or bridges. The road network in Pombia itself to the Good Ports, where the road was torn in the middle with the Community of Pigaidakis to have drowned at least twice, without anyone actually taking responsibility. Of course, the damage suffered by farmers - it is not yours, it is the Ministry of Agriculture - must be recorded and compensated for plant and animal production at 100% of the damage. So we ask you, Minister: What measures does the government intend to take immediately so that, firstly, the Chania Prefecture - not partially, but as a whole - and the Municipality of Amirio Rethymno - can be declared in an emergency? What measures does the government intend to take immediately to take to take emergency measures on the Pompias Road - Pigaidaki, Kala Ports and what measures to prevent the flooding of the community of Pigaidaki will it take in consultation with a region and a municipality? Secondly, what measures does the government intend to take directly to restore the damage to the national road and the provincial network of the island as a whole, to be given directly to traffic and to carry out soil support studies? What measures does the government intend to take directly to compensate the affected, by exempting them from municipal fees, HICPs, taxes, banks and to recognise the damages of farmers and to compensate 100%? Finally, what measures does the government intend to take to ensure the lives and inhabitants of the region and to implement without delay all necessary flooding projects, the necessary deepening of rivers, settlement...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Synthyriakis, don't make a general regeneration of Crete now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u61	I'm done, Mr. President. You realise that this is a matter for the whole of Crete. It's not an individual topic. We had four dead, too. I say this, Mr President, because bad weather is coming up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u62	Hey, beat your ass, Mr. Comrade. Don't study it. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. I'll use my dentistry time as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u64	It's not a matter. We are discussing the last question. There will be tolerance to you and to Mr. Synthriakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Synhronakis, first of all, I wish you every success, since it has been announced that you will also be a candidate in the region of Crete. Mr President, in my reply I will provide you with some information, which I hope will also be useful for the work you are doing in the run-up to the regional elections. In fact, in recent years, we have had in the regions, the regional units which you have mentioned, which have referred to, a great deal of disasters. I have told Parliament, in reply to a corresponding question, that what we need to discuss in such cases is the two scales of intervention: prevention and treatment. We, as you can see, as the Ministry of the Interior, in particular, are responsible for the second, namely the timely treatment of such a phenomenon. However, I will also tell you some things we have done in relation to prevention and intervention, which will help local communities be better prepared to deal with such phenomena. You spoke about the Ministry's documents. You have also talked about the need for compensation. Obviously, I do. Compensation must be paid. Of course, the Ministry of Interior - let me say this - cannot interfere on what path it will open and what path it will not open. These are issues which local government, the municipality and the region will solve. What we have to do in addressing such phenomena is very quickly to respond to the demands of self-government and to provide funding where it is needed. Indeed, in this particular case, Mr Synonymakis, that is exactly what has been done. And I'll talk to evidence. So I will tell you that in the latest phenomena we have had, within twenty-four hours, proceeded with exceptional financial aid which was deemed necessary for the restoration of basic infrastructure, which, of course, is to be restored by self-government 1 and 2 in the regions concerned. More specifically, on 8 February the Municipality of St. Rethymnon was assigned an amount of EUR 120,000. On 18 February in the Municipality of Platania Chania, where there was indeed a very great disaster, as I informed myself, since I also spoke with the local players, a sum of EUR 600,000 was paid. That was a few days ago, within the week we're in. On February 21st, Kissamos Municipality of Chania amounted to 500,000 euros. Also, on 21 February, just yesterday, a request was made by the Municipality of Cantanos Selinos Chania. Of course, and like the previous ones, I can inform you that it will be dealt with very quickly by the services of our Ministry. In total, I will inform you that for the Regional Units of Chania, Rethymnon and Heraklion only in 2019, that is to say in less than two months, they have been given for the restoration of infrastructure from the natural disasters of 2,060,000 euros. To get a sense of sizes, the corresponding amount in 2017 for the whole year was EUR 2,460,000 for these regional units. And for 2018 it was 3,430,000 euros. In other words, in less than two months' time - because, unfortunately, we have also had these extremes in recent days - we have made these funding. I will submit to the minutes and the relevant table for you to see in detail both by municipality and by regional unit what these fundings have been allocated in both 2017 and 2018 and in the first few months of 2019. As a consequence, in order to address the water shortage problems caused or even aggravated by these natural disasters on February 19th, three days ago, in other words, the Municipality of Amrios Rethymnon amounting to 200,000 euros and the Municipality of Apokoronou Chania amounted to 130,000 euros. We will therefore give this information again so that you can have it at your disposal. It is full of exactly what has been provided by funding to deal with rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u66	Before you leave, testify to the Minutes so that Mr. Synthrakis can get them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u67	Of course, I have them here to testify to the Minutes. We have, however, talked about prevention, and here, let me say that yesterday we made some announcements from the Ministry of the Interior about the 'Philodimos' programmes, which you also know very well that they are directed at the authorities and, above all, the municipalities. So yesterday we announced that we have exceeded the budget for these programmes, particularly for local infrastructure projects, EUR 2 billion. I think it is a very important development, since within seven months of launching the programmes we have reached this very high amount. In particular, it concerns - and I repeat - water supply, sewerage, and we have started the flooding projects, which are very important for regions throughout the country, as well as for Crete, where there are very important problems, with projects which, in my opinion, should have been carried out for many years in many areas of our country. Specifically for the area we are discussing, I will also present this in a relevant table, you do not need to note it, on the water infrastructure axis, they have been included in the "Philodimos" programme by the municipalities of the Regional Units of Chania, Rethymnon and Heraklion, a total budget of 45 million euros. Projects with a budget of EUR 37 million and the rural road network with a budget of approximately EUR 8 million have been included in the wastewater infrastructure programme, and we are waiting - and on the occasion of your question today, I also address a call to the municipalities, as we have already sent to them - to present their proposals for the problem of flood protection. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u68	The rest in your dentistry. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, disasters were obviously nothing unexpected, nor was it only a result of weather events, which were, of course, extreme. The responsibility of the government and of all the 'foot' - so to speak - of the central state, such as the regions and municipalities, must be uniform and in cooperation to deal with all the problems that arise, even planning. They therefore have a responsibility both in the field of prevention and in the issues of addressing them. And not to throw the ball at each other. I'll tell you why I'm telling you. The previous period has been an incredible counterweight to who is responsible for the northern road. Does the government have it? Does the district have it? Or in the case of the village of Stalos, does the district, government or municipality have it? You don't know that? If you don't know, you need to know. In fact, your own nominated regional candidate, Mr Arnautakis, blames you very much, as well as the government, of course. And Mr Spirtzis throws his glove away and says to him: 'No, we do not have the responsibility as government, you have it.' And the truth is that since 2006 the New Democracy has been responsible for some projects in the region, such as the maintenance of the northern road line, and the PASOK expands it along the way. While, for example, more activities and interventions on the northern roads have the government. Well, he was "harging and struggling" we say in Crete. Now go find out what the slightest damages or the biggest damages are and who is responsible for these issues. The question is, however, that people are in danger here. That's the problem. I am not telling you for any other reason, because these are a brake on the immediate response to the problems. And from this point of view, you have a responsibility as a whole. Secondly, you have cut yourself, you have not supported the issues of sub-funding for the construction of suitable anti-military works. There was indifference in the lack of infrastructures to protect against natural phenomena and a contemptual attitude was taken in general. You mentioned to me here a little while ago the sums you have given. Can I tell you something? I will not disagree, I have no reason to disagree with the amounts you mentioned. How much is the damage from the disasters in Chania alone? Tell me. A first estimate is EUR 50 million and a second phase of EUR 100 million. What does this amount have to do with the amounts that you have previously analysed? In the Municipality of Platania you say that it is 600,000 euros, in Kissamos and the others. Damages are multiple in costs. How, then, will these municipalities respond, when you are constantly underfunding them and simply throwing some crumbs at them, feeling even the obligation that people - in any case - say 'bravo' to you? But you didn't tell me anything about Stalos. People are in danger of being killed. It's the municipality's responsibility - I mean for the settlement - but be careful! - you need to speed up the procedures, you need to check it up, you need to press the city towards the projects, give the funding to the Municipality of Chania, because you do not mention anything about financing the Municipality of Chania. There must also be funding there. In any case, the government's policy, in our view, has led us to risk lives, families, to lose one's lives. And there are the inadequacies, as we have said, of technical works, violations, uncontrolled and unregulated construction, nonexistent cleansing of the ravages, the lack of maintenance of a provincial road network. And you know that all this abandonment leads, when the critical moment comes, to a multiple assessment of the cost of this damage than if measures had been taken to prevent and deal with these phenomena. From this point of view, the criterion of the development of capital, which is served by the state throughout its range - and all the political forces - must be a criterion for the world to go to the polls at all levels, which must pay at the corresponding price all those who are currently responsible and who do not solve the problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u70	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u71	Mr Synthyriakis, I really do not understand why while you tabled a timely question - and it is also timely in all the meaning of the word, because in the last few days we have had major disasters - and we have started a debate on this issue, you are dealing with other issues, you are putting the issue of the BOAK. If you'd like, put a question to the relevant ministry. I am sure there will be convincing answers from the Minister responsible for what is going on with the BOAK. Let's stay on the subject. Stay on the subject of natural disasters. I have spoken to you both of the levels of intervention that we are doing. As far as the prevention of these programmes is concerned, since you will also be a candidate for regional authority, please ask the mayors of Crete to tell you whether they are facing them positively and to help restore the local infrastructure, which has indeed been left to their fate in all previous years. I am referring to the programmes of the Ministry of Interior, the 'Philodimos' programmes, on prevention. And with regard to the treatment of disasters, I referred to specific amounts of funds in specific municipalities and with specific dates that have been given in recent times, in the last few days, within the week, a few days after the disaster. For the first time, money is being given to repair damage so quickly, at such high speed, of course after requests. And I told you that in my protology, we don't give money to the right and left, just to shut mouths. The money is given after specific requests from the affected municipalities. So if there is any municipality - because you referred to it - who has not received funding, it is obviously due to the fact that a request has not yet been made on its part. And finally, I think we need to get together and since you're also involved in the area of self-government: central state, first degree of self-government. Every level of administration must at long last assume its responsibilities in this country too. We cannot always look to the 'bad' state, when we ask for something, but when we receive what we are asking for, then we do not assume our responsibilities - and as self-government I speak - for the fulfilment of our obligations. In this particular case too, of course, self-government is called upon, and you are right here, we will also monitor the development of the work involved - to do its job and to restore the damage and the funding that we have guaranteed in the last few days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u72	It is enough for the central state, Mr Minister, to give the money provided for in the Constitution and the agreements to self-government, because it has become the bag of boxing over time. I remember when I was president of the CEDEFOP of the ELLAD programme by Mr Ragosi, the EUR 4 billion that has been lost somewhere between the then ministry and the CEDEFOP. Let's not forget. The topical and urgent debate is closed. It is known in this House that they are attending our meeting of seventeen students and students from the 7th Municipal School of Transition. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-22-S1-commons.u73	With the agreement of the House at 11.25 p.m. the sitting of the next Monday, February 25, 2019, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
