ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue discussion and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Science and T.E.I. Synergies, access to higher education, experimental schools, General Archives of the State and other provisions". Mr Saridis, Parliamentary spokesman for the Union of Centres.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my introduction to the words of Minister Gavroglou, who yesterday from this Chamber pointed out that it is another thing to disagree about what possible solutions to a problem are, and another thing is to disagree on the problem itself, namely the nature of the problem, which is what the problem is. I finally ask you, ladies and gentlemen, the few who are in this Chamber, what is the problem of education in Greece? If we had to choose one of the many confessed problems of our educational system, what would be that problem that we would choose? What would be the problem that should be solved immediately? What would you choose from the government of SYRIZA? I would say that the greatest problem of education in Greece lies, ladies and gentlemen, in this Chamber. From here all the most serious and worst problems of our educational system begin. The reason why I claim this is very simple. The message that the Greek Parliament has been sending out for decades now is that we are unable to build on the work of the previous ones. The previous ones here are the ones who are to blame for everything. It's always to blame. From the beginning of post-multiplatification until now, it's all the previous ones' fault. There was never a Greek Minister - ever - but not just from this government, but never - who comes out and say:'regardless of whether it is their fault, this problem is a big one, it is a serious problem for our country, for all of us, and that is why we should all sit together and find a solution to this problem'. That's never been said. This has never been applied. Ladies and gentlemen, we are the problem of education in Greece. How many reforms have the Greek education system undergone? Uncircumcised. If there were no famous tax reforms, then it is certain that the record would be held by educational reforms. So many reforms in education that their number has been the only tangible result we have had for the deregulation of education. Only one institution has survived as reliable and this is the pan-Hellenic exams. All the rest is a point of view or better it's a party line. All we agree is that the system of pan-Hellenic examinations has gained the confidence of the Greeks. From there on, chaos begins. This is very well understood, you know, and the seventeen years that we recently gave them the right to vote at the same time as we tell them that the last two years of their lives, that is, the last two years that go to high school, are so useless. And they will do well to base them on the schools and their special preparation courses for the pan-Hellenic exams. This is the first truth we offer them when they enter their adult life. The truth is: "Don't trust the system. Make your own choices. And keep a small basket for what you hear, about what you're told of all kinds of responsibilities." The combination of this advice - 'Don't listen to what they say, they don't know what they are doing to them' - with the fact that it is all the previous ones who are to blame, it leads to tragic consequences for the quality of social cohesion in our country. Education, ladies and gentlemen, as well as all the education systems worldwide, which promise to offer this education to our children - whether we like it or do not like it - can only be based on the work of the former. No success of the human species came within only one day. No development was caused by a discovery. No progress has been made by the work of just one man. Every step forward that humanity has taken is based on the steps taken by the former ones. Since the man has discovered the script, that is, since humanity has won its only victory against death - because this has been done by writing - since the previous ones found a way to leave messages, advice, knowledge to the next ones, from then on slowly, humanity, but with steady steps forward, always relying on the works of the former ones. What skyscrapers, he says, would we be building today if Pythagoras had not proved his theorem? What kind of space trips would we plan if Euclid and his geometry hadn't gone before? What kind of theatre would we see if Aeschylus, Euripides, Aristophanes, hadn't been seen before? In the fields of education, the projects of the former are a beacon, a guide and a consultant for the attempted progress of the latter. So we in Greece, the cradle of culture, refuse to return to this simple and undeniable statement that it is the foundation for what we are deciding. The Association of Centres, ladies and gentlemen, through its rapporteur and in charge of the education sector, had submitted its programme for too long. It was tabled yesterday in the Minutes. A programme, which has come out of a lot of trouble by the team responsible for education. A programme which the Minister has many times - and this we must recognise - has included some of the views of this programme in his bills. However, if today we were called upon to present our views in a fruitful and creative dialogue, these views would be as follows: Promotion and dismissal of high school pupils by the procedure already described in our programme. Introduction to AEIs with APA type examinations and with tests that will in large part include 60% of the score with multiple selection questions. Uniform high school with a general and technological sector. In the general sector, courses of general education will be taught by 70% and by 30%, while in the technology sector the opposite will be done. Absolutely equal access of the two branches to the HEIs, but also to the two-year programmes. Direct registration of two-year graduation and general school programmes. Establishing examinations for citizens more than thirty years of age for the taking of a high school diploma, if they have graduated from the First High School. In the event of a failure for two times, the receiver will be achieved by attending a secondary school or a secondary school. Establishing examinations for citizens over thirty-five years of primary school leaving if they have graduated from first grade. In the event of a failure for two times, a high school graduation will be achieved by a high school course. Appropriately for the ESDP. High school teachers can only have teaching work and on-calls. Full release of high school teachers from every paperwork. To this end, the setting-up of an administrative team in the last six months of study can help to establish a practical placement in secretaries of students and students of HEI, Pedagogical Schools, Business Administration Schools, as well as students and students of IEK. Employment of unemployed graduates in high school secretaries, through municipal programmes, for the acquisition of work experience in administrative work. At the beginning of the school year directly to be covered by the teachers of the school unit, as a matter of priority, the sections of the 3th grade so that the daily programme of this class is complete for students. Remodel the thematic objects of high school according to the relevant proposal of the EEP and write new books across the range of education, starting with high school, which are the oldest ones. Recording and immediately utilization of high school laboratory equipment. Establishment of an administrative team in high school with Director, Deputy Director and Deputy Directors. The Deputy Vice-Presidents shall be selected similarly, such as the Deputy Directors, and shall receive half of the Vice-President's remuneration. Establishment of a placement of Deputy Vice-President has multiple benefits and is honorary for teachers with long-term experience. They all have a drastic reduction in teaching hours. They provide supportive and guiding work to children and teachers in the school unit. They represent the school and are responsible for ensuring that all books and procedures relating to the school are kept and monitored. Establishment of a special educational wage and care for highly indebted teachers. Ladies and gentlemen, there were some of these points which were included in the Centro-Training Union programme. These are points which are worth seeing and which are worthy of the future, because so far many of them have not been implemented. I would like to say a few words on an amendment, which, in my humble view, represents a small victory for democracy, a small victory for parliamentaryism, a proof that, when there is will, is the way. It is the parliamentary amendment which I have had the honour of signing, as I fought with whatever powers I had to make a reality, and the fight of our fire extinguishers is at last justified, so that we can now come to the point that the acceding Minister will take into account and be accepted on his behalf. I thank him for that, therefore, on behalf of the people whose lives will be better, on behalf of our fellow citizens, who will make their lives safer, because of this amendment which we have given her flesh and bones, and you have accepted it, Minister. This amendment concerns the seasonal firefighters hired in 2008 and 2009, that is to say, after the murderous fires in 2007, and who, when they were hired, did not have the pre-service requirements - I repeat, concerning pre-services, so that five-year-old fire-fighting fire-fighters could be included in the lists of fire-fighting fire-fighting fire-fighting officers. This number of fire extinguishers may be small, that is to say, those who have still to date, at the moment we are talking about, offer their services firmly and uninterruptedly as seasonal firefighters, having acquired ten years of valuable experience in this undeniably difficult task of fire-fighting, but with the enormous contribution we have. In view of this ten-year experience and their contribution to the Fire Corps and the urgent needs of the Fire Corps to experienced fire personnel, as well as the fact that there is no budgetary burden, nor on the operational costs of their training, nor even on their personal equipment, we have proceeded with all the necessary steps to propose to the relevant Minister, Mrs Gerovasili, the recognition of their service and their inclusion in the respective tables. I recognise - and I must mention this, so that everyone knows - that we have found the Minister's door open, which in fact made it quite interesting for her to adopt this amendment, which has been made available to the parties and awaits the support of all parties, because it is very simply fair, it is also fair to this temple, to the temple of democracy, what we should first of all vote on is what is relevant to the citizens and is useful to them. The citizens of this country are above the parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, too. Mr Lazarides, Member of the European Parliament, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Once again, the present government has brought a bill with the urgent procedure and it would probably be a surprise if it were to come with normal procedures. And here we have to stand in a really strict critical way is that, especially in bills dealing with sensitive national issues, one should be very careful. I am talking about national issues because, when we talk about education, we are talking about national issues, because we are dealing with the present and future of our children. So this is a serious and delicate national issue, and it is not possible for a bill that has about a thousand hundreds of thousands of pages of urgency to come under the urgency procedure. Clearly, we must all sit together with the bill, find those fine points which must be improved or even rejected, and then move on and consensually. Because this is a bill which, I repeat, concerns education, so we need to find that joint unitary component so that we can make a maximum contribution to children. But all these national issues are approached with particular lightness. Because it was some time ago that we were talking here about the Skopje agreement, this unacceptable agreement, whose consequences, unfortunately, your Members are dealing with them on Macedonia, especially on Macedonia. You remember from this Step I said you were wrong on this case and the proceedings should have been unscheduled. You brought this case back to urgent procedure, and many Members here have not been able to put us on the table. And I'm going to say something else, which I've denounced many times. The will of the independent Members was also shared at that time during the discussion in committee. That is why they are issues with which you may perhaps have to fight with democratic, sensitive national procedures and you should revise some things. As time does not allow, I shall stand in the bill briefly on some points that need special attention. We're dealing with excellence. Shouldn't excellence be treated with particular sensitivity and take care to give the motives to the other children to try these too? It is not possible to live in a society in which everyone fights so that they can achieve the maximum possible, but the objective must clearly be that. And having as a target this, it is certain that as a society we will have a positive figure. You, instead of helping these schools, hug them to have the maximum positive effect, take care, as it turns out through the bill by reading this, to create completely different conditions and have the completely opposite effect. On the other hand, I'm coming to the universities now. From what I have learned, you have made sure during the process of hearing bodies that you inform those who would come here to present their views with a fax last night, and it is known that public services in no country in the world do not work at night, have a specific working hours. So this fax, received by the agency at night, was read the other day in the morning, i.e. during the process of hearing institutions in the House. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will conclude in a minute. So the aim was not to come by the bodies to testify, because it was well-known: the unsub, the university on Thessaloniki, is against Thessaloniki. The University of Western Macedonia is against it. The University of Crete is against. So it was meant not to come to testify their opinion. Mr President, at this point I will close because we are running out of time. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible for anyone to oppose this bill which does not contribute positively in the matter of education. As I said before, we should discuss this and have the time. We do not have this and we are therefore negative and opposed to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, too. Mr Vorides, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. In the very short time I have for my speech, let me speak very briefly with my colleague, who described these issues as lightly dealt with by the government. My disagreement lies in the fact that I think that the government is dealing with these things in a very targeted and concrete way, not of course by means of consensual procedures, which Mr Philes referred to in falsely and pretextly, trying to build a so-called climate of calm and comfort and soberness on these issues, but on the contrary, he considers that he is carrying out a very specific project. This project has been expressed in specific ways and has specific objectives. It serves awesome programs very specifically. For example: balancing is a basic concept, which is cultivated in all the interventions made by the government and in this bill. What does that look like? Balancing, attack, we've lived in the past, in private schools. With what argument? The classics. In fact, what is the government attacking here? The right to free choice. This is also included in the general concept of stateism. Only the state can provide education services. Equilibrium and statism. This second was also expressed in the Government's objection to the establishment of private universities through constitutional reform. Also, equilibrium with the attack on the model schools. Why remove them the possibility of having their own program, their own actions and their autonomy being removed? Why is that so? Because all this needs to be returned to the central state in order to manipulate and ride. The second ideological objective of the interventions made by the government is, of course, that which is also fully compatible with its ideology and that is nationalism. Attacking religious values, attack on religious ones, proposal on religious neutrality, which naturally affects education. All this has been implemented or attempted to be implemented by the government, and at other times it has been stopped, because the Council of State has stopped them, and at other times they have stopped, because there have been institutional and social reactions that have not allowed them to function. Now there is an attack - listen, very important and very heavy ideologically - the very way in which one learns the language. It says: The attack on ancient Greeks, their disconnection from the exams, as in Latin, is a beneficial thing and is done for profitable reasons, to have more time. Not at all. It is an attack on the very way in which one learns the language. Language is a basic identifiable tool, but language, as the philosophers of the new Left have said, is discipline. Mr Tsipras speaks and accepts a review of the press, because he is making linguistic errors, making grammar errors and allegedly giving him that he is not trained, quite trained. He's not grown enough. Oh, no. The main problem of the left language is that it denies the basis of the structure of the language and that is why it attacks the ancient Greek because it wants to disconnect, which is why it attacks Latin, because it denies history. That is why he is actually attacking the whole of this tool. Mr. Madesh now laughing will appreciate it even more, because, as you know, your philosophers - one of them - have said that language is fascism. So...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u7	Who said that, Mr. Voridis?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u8	That's what Bourdier said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u9	A reference.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u10	All right, we'll come with our references next time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u11	A reference, because the man is dead and he can't...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u12	Let's go down. I say that, because that is the ideological framework. They will not, however, be missed below, and what makes this detestable ideological framework attractive to the rumours. And in the rosés here, I would like the Minister, who has been expelled for the ideological analysis I have done before, to explain to me: Will you make parts with amendments to Members? Is this the rational way the university is formed? So will the brilliant Mr Gilolas, who will say 'you know, let us build a department at the University of Peloponnese, because my constituents have asked me to do so' - well, Mr Gilolas is adopting a request from the voters, and you will come to legislate because you are asked for it by Mr Gilola? Is that the way we develop the university? I would like to end, Mr President, by saying that what you are doing with the examinations leaves the families of the pupils who have been prepared for all this time. You are now abolishing the Latin examination and replacing it for next year. Aren't these people already prepared for Latin? Are they going to start next year? You double the matter. To double the matter doesn't create a completely different environment for these families? All of this is that, in fact, for ideological and rational reasons, they impose our firm opposition to this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u13	The Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mrs. Ignastopoulou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Fortunately, Mr Vorides spoke before me and actually gave the worthy axis of the New Democracy. Because what we have heard is islands of excellence isolated from the rest of the world, from the rest of society. For us excellence exists when the leadership can be linked to the larger masses of the population. Otherwise, it can't exist. And that's not equilibrium, Mr. Voridis, it's an equality source of freedom. Secondly, the government is obliged to take care of public education. For you - we have seen and started this since 2010 - it is a degradation of public education and the creation of a need for private education, mainly higher education. It is a rheumatology when a minister is being pressed by the MPs, who are the principle of democracy - because we have confused in recent years a few things - while it is not a rhetoric when a minister, a government or a party is being pushed by entrepreneurs to build private universities. I'm not going to comment on ethnic zeroing. I consider it unacceptable only when it comes to Greek and Greek MPs. Nor will I comment on the concept of language, because we will have to turn back many centuries and I do not want to, because I will lose the bill. This multi-brand plan complements a strategy for education that this government has. One may disagree, one may not disagree, but it is a strategy that we have seen many years in this country. You're talking about technological education being abolished. What were the realities that the country had to face in the new times when we live? It has to deal firstly with the Europe of the regions and, secondly, with a globalised environment. So we need strong higher education, strong universities that can function competitively, as you want to say, with the global environment and the European, plus being able to integrate the realities that have been created so many years. You will allow me here to disagree with something, even with my colleagues. Departments and schools in various cities have been created for years, once in a completely irrational way. But that covered a need. Higher education was used as a lever for development in the region. It's not bad. And the local communities did not embrace the university departments and the technological departments, i.e. the TEIs, only for the souves and for the rooms. Because for the Greek society since the 19th century, the university was proud, higher education was proud. Therefore, instead of this reality - which has become irrational - we have started to gather it, with a strategic planning that will give strength to both university institutions and to technological education, but also to local societies to work together in the direction of universities, we have started - the New Democracy with the "ATHENA" project - to disperse irrationally completely the sections. You will allow me to say two words - because unfortunately I do not have time - for the university of my own constituency, because a Member of Parliament expresses his constituency. What can we do now? They won't change the rules of democracy. We have a university that is one of the best in the world and that according to these international rankings. We have a TEI of Western Greece with some very good sections, but once technological education has grown up, it became a pig of the universities, because it was trying to look like the universities. Important colleagues with very important research work within the TEI did not have the right to doctorate, they did not have the right to do so. So, then, these synergies between theoretical and technological directions are what give strength. These synergies began before the Minister's bill. Can I give you an example? The Department of Social Work at the TEI of Western Greece Mr. Arvanitopoulos decided to close it overnight. We opened it and didn't just open it there. I see here some Members of the New Democracy. In Macedonia, for which you are so much inclined to say that we are ethnicists, etc., how many departments of the TEI had been closed and have we reopened them with New Democracy MPs coming to the Ministry? So this is what the Department of Social Work, with great scientists, who in the crisis, had to be pushed forward, instead of the ATHENA project, closed it down. We've opened it. The synergies that with the Pedagogical Department of the University of Patras were huge at this time. There it will continue to work in the new bill, and I have many examples of it. I'm so glad for the University of Patras. This is where the New Democracy wants it. He tells us, on the one hand, that we have too many students and that we will give a lot of degrees and, on the other, that they have to open private universities because our students are leaving abroad. So we understand your targeting very well. After all, Mr. Vorides said that she was completely open. Law School. After our students leave abroad and go to private, we wanted or didn't want to? Is it the state's obligation to give a School of Law? I wanted to see Patras. Yeah, at an important university. A rural school we wanted or didn't want? And for all Western Greece. We wanted to. So who is it that undermines public education and who is it with a strategic planning that is trying to give new impetus? I would say disagreements that in such major bills there may be, but this is an equal treatment that shows one thing. You want private education. We want public education. That's our difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u15	Mr Pafilis, Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u16	Ping-Pong was very good. It works for both of us. And Mr. Voridis, New Democracy, and SYRIZA. There's nothing wrong. Neither of what Mr Vorides said nor of what Mrs Anagnostopoulou said. You're on the same table. Because the Ping-Pong is played on the same table and is not played separately. And what's that table called? European Union and capitalism. Controversy is who serves better. And because you are grumpy, I would remind you that many years ago - in 1996, I can't remember - the British Commissioner for Education made a lecture in the Concert Hall - if I'm not mistaken - on the pretexts. He said, causing a real shock at that time: "Forget the theory of a mission of education that will form a whole, helping to create personality and so on. Education must be subject to the needs of the economy, see the chapter 'and the market'. They had a shock at that time. That's what you've been doing all these years. This began in New Democracy and PASOK after 1997 until 2013 and this continues on the same route as SYRIZA. Right on the same door. So don't tell us here that you have great differences in the direction. That's why he's building an educational system that's going to produce cheap, flexible scientific potential. He wants people with skills - monkeys have skills - not critically thinking. He wants submissive people. He wants an educational system that will be completely in the service of capitalist development. Unless you've done socialism now and we don't know it. I'm talking about SYRIZA. Today the school provides education? Does it provide general education? No, it's categorically not. This is about content, direction, infrastructure, teachers. It does not provide either. And as it goes, it's oriented even by the smaller classes on the hunt, to be able to go to university. You're telling us you're in favour of public free education. Really? Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, where do you live? In another country? And Mr. Voridis says SYRIZA is chasing public education. The difference is at the university, but it's eliminated, because you recognize the degrees of the various colleges and equal them. What's that? Public education? So let's see how a people's family lives and what he's dealing with. Because that's where he'll be judged. First, school down. Second, does he want a foreign language? He's going to pay for the tutorial. Third, does the kid want to go to a sport or somewhere else? He'll pay. Is sport an obligation to train or is it not? He wants to know a musical instrument? He'll pay. So he pays everywhere. And the schools are now starting in elementary school. This is tragic and yet there is. What's their name?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u17	Study centres.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u18	Study centers are now being called. They're primary schoolrooms. In high school and in high school, of course, there is extermination. So, does the worker always pay out of his pocket? Because the plutocrats don't have a problem. There are the universities, Harvard, and the various things - Mr Gavroglou knows better - where they can send their children. So let's move on. For the university, how much does the people's family pay for? Are there any student homes? Nutrition? Costs and other, assisted books? Pays, pays, pays. He pays postgraduately, because without postgraduate today you know what's going on. Do those who don't go to college pay? IEC, as they say, free-teaching centres, training centres, all are private. Who maintains these? Kids of people's families, don't they? And then you talk to us about public free education? A little shame or a little modesty doesn't hurt. Two and a half billion are only the tutorials people pay every day. We are now going to respond to a number of issues that have been raised. Examinations in the third grade. What does the government say? As High School III became better to abolish general education, to go to the four courses, that is, the ones in the direction, and to make it virtually preparatory years for universities, that is, another course. Yes, he says that's how high school upgrades. Is high school being raised by cutting off general education lessons and charging more difficult tests? Because they're going to get harder, which is going to be regional, it's going to be all over the world. But, so much mocking? Where do you live, really? Do you have kids in schools? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me some time, Mr President. Do you have kids in schools? Will they have time to talk when they're chasing the grade? In the second grade, raise the matter to the rest of you. They'll talk when they're chasing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u19	Do you have kids in school?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u20	Don't interrupt me. That's it. Cut it out. This isn't Harvard. Understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u21	But you're asking me...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u22	It's not Harvard. You'll let us talk. Did I interrupt you sometime?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u23	No one's blocking you, but you're lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u24	Listen, this style of ironic doesn't fit. You're the Minister of Education, I'm telling you you're bringing the Great Week bill that's closed and you're answering whether we're religious to the JRC. Aren't you ashamed? Do you teach these lessons? Don't go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u25	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u26	So, I'm telling you, really, the children in the third grade, ask one who has kids, will they have time to have a free conversation after they get a high degree of dismissal, chasing a great deal to get into the universities? Ironically! And you're saying we're doing regional exams because parents are pressing, says, and they're putting high grades now in school in the discharge room. What are you talking about? If that were the case, the teachers would welcome you and say: 'Have the government and the Minister who relieve us of this pressure'. The opposite happens. And what's the pretext? What the previous ones were saying. That's what the late Arsenis used to say, that's what New Democracy said. Upgrade of the decontamination. Don't say now what upgrades have taken place all these years, because that was the pretext and what will happen, and now what value will the severance will have in today's chaos and the jungle. I would like to say about the amendments tabled by the Communist Party. We have tabled an amendment to guarantee the rating of examination courses so that it does not give them next year. You've answered that it's incomprehensible. Why is it incomprehensible? Who's this arrangement helping? Does it help the children of the people's families? Why, suppose one has a misfortune in one lesson, something happened to him, and he's prepared, why should he go back in time and all four lessons? Why, when this measure was in force, are you saying that it failed? How did it fail? It barely helped many working-class children and people's families with it getting into universities and save some millions collectively, not to say billions. Because he starts a new circle, new instruction all year round. And you're telling us it's incomprehensible. And the New Democracy that is being cut, why doesn't it support it and abolish it? Of course, the PASOK government has abolished it. Of course I will say that when you have wealth, you cannot understand these problems, because the people's strata and children of poor and middle family, neither in Lancaster nor in Cambridge, nor in Harvard, nor in Boston University, nor in shipowners' boards, can be their parents, so that they can study without examinations and with all their problems solved. Then you're telling us about equality and you and the symbiotes. What equality are we talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Palphie, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u28	What equality do we have when the children of the people's families and their families are sentenced to a life chasing after short-lived dreams, spending their lives in order to educate their children and enter into the order of unemployment, if you want, when others have them broken before birth or when they are already born? Is that the equality you're defending? And Mr. Georgiadis came out and says that those who are lucky can go to private and have money or can go to foreigners. Is that lucky? Those who are exploiters, those who have enriched themselves from the sweat of the workers who condemn them to run their entire lives. So what Aleida Guevara said "in capitalism every generation is sacrificed for the next generation" and not what you say sacrifices the next day and you have said that it is the fathers who built Greece who took some wages that deserved much more and that it is their fault for this mess. That's what's going on. When a people's family manages to have an income, - at least when it had - what does it do? She's been running a life to pay and study her children. The same is true for children, to gather in a handful of rich riches.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u29	You're welcome, Mr. Paphie, you're finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u30	I'll be done. For the old graduates of TEIs, we propose that all old graduates should be given the right before 2001, who want - because some may not want - to equalise their degrees. What about them? It's thousands. Why do you reject it? You're saying it's unclear. Make it clear. Let us accept this principle. What about these people now? What's it gonna be like? You make it clear, and in particular to discuss what measures can be taken. The third thing you're rejecting, I'll say it here, so people can hear it while they hear it. What do we suggest? Do we suggest relocations for who? For those with low income family, parents with unemployed, brothers, sisters studying in another city, for children who themselves and their parents belong to special categories, such as single - parent families, unemployed, third - blocked, multitext families. You reject it. You'll pay it very expensive, because that's brutality. We call on the youth to join the JRC, because society is mature, it can change and it will change. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. That's annoying. And before you gave more time. Society has enormous potential. We can build a society, a socialist and communist society, where everyone can freely develop their personality where they have rights in life and do not live in capitalist barbarism. So together, with youth, we can do that. We've got the messages in both universities and elsewhere. Besides, the only organized youth - come to the KNE festival once to see - rally in the KKE and close your eyes to the fake fighters. It is the same strategy, the same bosses, that I mean political, that they serve, and that is capital, the European Union, capitalist barbarism.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u32	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u33	I want to talk about what Mr Pallis said about the translations. Everything you said, Mr. Palphie, is included in the molecules of the children for now. Everything you said. It's just not done automatically. That is, depending on how many people will go to section one from different parts of Greece there is a ceiling, which we are always overcovering. It's only 15% and it's overreached. There are too many times 100%. But everything you've said is molecule elements. I call it clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u34	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to speak for ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u35	Here you go, Mr. Paphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u36	It's more like molecules, and I'm getting it translated.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u37	Mr Tsiaras, Member of the New Democracy, will now speak instead of Mr Güleka. Here, Mr. Chiara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are once again discussing a bill, which has succeeded in highlighting the serious controversy on the one hand within the Greek Parliament, but on the other hand on the other hand on this initiative of the Government towards the academic community as a whole. We are, however, discussing a bill, which once again highlights the absolute inconsistency of the government and the Minister with regard to commitments he has made, in fact, since the first time. And I'm explaining. The Minister from the start said that any change in higher education will be a product of dialogue, it will be a product of agreements, it will be a product of consensus and a more general - if you want - approach, which will be in agreement in every direction. Where, in fact, is this agreement and where all these criteria are taken into account, which a government or a minister should theoretically take into account, attempting so serious structural changes in higher education? How can one really say that this is where we are going to reform higher education when the opinion of the Independent Authority, the IPPC, is not even taken into account? After all, it is well known - and I think we have all kept in mind - the saying by the Minister on the paper of the IPPC, which obviously has no value to him, when there is a specific principle that I would say to you - appropriately highlights both the reasons and the academic criteria, in order to make changes to higher education. The Minister spoke of dialogue. Dialogue, Minister, what do you mean by that? You obviously mean him with your SYRIZA colleagues? Because if I take as a criterion what happened, especially in the absorption of the TEI of Thessaly from the University of Thessaly and, of course, I compare this with what followed in retrospect and which are essentially the main debate today, I am sure I will come to the uncertain conclusion that dialogue on the government is an internal matter. It is not a matter that is evolving with society, it is probably evolving with opposition parties, it is evolving with a more general one - I would say to you - how a serious government needs to go ahead with reforms and changes concerning the future of children, the future of Greek society. And here again the dialogue was a closed case between us and you. These are for you, SYRIZA colleagues. Thirdly, yesterday we were faced with an incredible phenomenon. It is the well-known phenomenon, "the phenomenon of the last days of Pompeii", MPs coming with amendments and accepting them, Mr Minister, who say that higher education must be the product of a serious design, an academic and an acceptance. Is it true where the self-sufficiency of universities went, ladies and gentlemen? Where is the selflessness of universities, the organizational, the financial self-sufficiency of the universities that you support? The ball will then go to the universities to decide about the departments? And you know why each colleague comes and asks for a new section to be set up. And then will it be decided afterward by the universities? Is that a logic of politics? So you haven't learned anything? Do you not know that there is a big problem - and it is obviously the mistake of all the previous governments - with the establishment of many different university departments in the Greek region? And finally all these children who will once end all these departments, Minister, where will they seek their professional rights? Where will they be guaranteed and how will they be able to come out on a labour market, having as competitors graduates from other European universities? That does not concern anyone, ladies and gentlemen. We have arrived just before the elections and we have founded one, two, three new university departments in our constituency. We are presenting it very nice and from there on, we say that in this way we have basically covered a large part of our own obligation. Ladies and gentlemen, the area of education requires a completely different concept and a different political approach. I am one of those who say that the political system should finally be consulted, especially on issues relating to education, higher education, the future of children, the future of Greek society. Sadly, however, it seems once again that it is the micro-party perception that prevails, and in a way that goes beyond the confrontation within the Greek Parliament, which raises many questions. The hollow promises that they will never meet with reality may create the bliss of the moment for some of you, but you should know that in the medium term they will create a much greater problem from one of your own credibility but also from the Greek political system in general. We have a different concept. We believe in a different direction to education, and I think that has been expressed by the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mrs Keramos, the Parliamentary Representative, Mr Javaras, yesterday with their speeches have made it clear how the New Democracy is aware of higher education. It seems, however, once again - and here it is a big issue that I would like to highlight, despite the fact that it escapes the legislative debate and I am not used to doing so - that the perception of education for many of you is not what it should be. When we have phenomena like what we have just seen yesterday, a colleague of yours sitting in ministerial seats, to judge in a waterproof way a child who, in a soul heroism, is, in fact, an example for the entire Greek society, who is a disabled person, and we come to a point in judging it in this way, it seems clear that education is a debate that is far away from what you see. And I really do wonder how none of you, from the government, came out to condemn such behaviour. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that, as on many other issues, the responsibility and lot fall on the next government of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis. Responsibility falls to the next Prime Minister, on the one hand to make the necessary reforms in higher education, but much more to give a vision to Greek education, a vision to Greek citizens and to the entire Greek society of where and where our country should go the next day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, I can make a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u40	Here you go, Mr. Gavroglou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u41	A clarification so that there's no misunderstanding. With the amendments that have been accepted in respect of the new sections, we should clarify this: firstly, the two sections - one in Florina and the other in Kozani - are, after consultation with the dean and decision of the respective school's denomination at the University of Western Macedonia.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u42	Why don't you bring her? Are the MPs doing the deal or the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u43	Here's what I'm telling you. Please. There's always an irritation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u44	No irritation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u45	Don't talk to me like that and turn your head around. Listen, take note.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u46	What can we hear? That's what the Minister of Education brings.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u47	Secondly, for the department in Edessa there was a corresponding decision and consultation with the International University. Thirdly, for the Argos department, it was indeed from the Member, Mr Giola, that I informed the dean and, obviously, it should have been incorporated into the original bill. So don't stick around it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u48	These are prophecies in sins ahead of elections. It's a big week and it fits.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Giuleka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with what the Minister of Education mentioned earlier. All this was agreed. And I ask: Since you're bringing in a bill, a bill that crosses all levels of education... I ask you, Minister. I wait until you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u51	If you ask me, I'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u52	When I'm done, answer. You have taken the floor, you said something, we have to comment on it. So since all this was in agreement, why were they not included in the original plan? And why are they suddenly coming with last-minute amendments? What kind of programming and study are you really doing with depth to change our educational system after a painful effort, and, suddenly, are you coming in last minute and going through 'cut-up' - ruptured' amendments to the bill to satisfy your ruptures? So, are we wrong to talk beyond the abortion bill and about a rag bill? Because that's it. You have been subject to amendments at the last minute and according to the electoral needs of your SYRIZA colleagues you have been setting up schools. The problem is not to establish schools, Minister. The problem is to make the education system better, and if you found ten good, make another five of you, so that we can go on with another five. One would expect in the field of education to meet. One would expect to have a debate on the best, see how we can improve this system. On the other hand, how good you feel, when the meet-up is opposite, most universities are opposite, the educational community as a whole is opposing. OEMe asks you to withdraw it. The whole Opposition is against your bill. Is it possible for you to keep the original opinion of what is of benefit to education and everyone else to be wrong? Let me say that it makes us very impressed, a government that still counts a few months of government service - I do not know when the elections will take place at the latest in October - it is coming with great interest to bring a bill - a broom for education and not just that, but to bring it under unprecedented procedures. One would honestly say that this bill and the way it is introduced would be a very good lesson for students in political science about what should be avoided in Parliament. A one hundred-page bill is filed with two and twenty-six articles at midnight and is being discussed the next day! So within a few hours, we all have to study the bill, find out what's wrong with it. On the other hand, you are following this diversion - because it is a diversion - and on the subject of the hearing of the extra-parliamentary bodies. You don't call the President of the Rector's Synod because you had a fight with him once. You send a fax to the dean of TEI in Western Macedonia at night, to come to Athens the next day from Kozani to report here, which is impossible. In essence, that is to say, you exclude representatives of the bodies or at least those who disagree, by the method you follow. Do you feel well, as Minister of Education, that, instead of consensual procedures, you are also trying to pass this abortion? What are you trying to pass? You are taking out technological education, while throughout Europe - not to talk about Germany, where technological education is too high and is constantly being upgraded, as in many countries of Europe - there is actually an effort made by all governments to upgrade, direct people to these technological skills. On the contrary, what are you doing? Remove all TEIs. They caught me and told me engineers with the polytechnics you do: 'What about our professional rights?' I've been caught by PSA students. We found the student community and discussed: 'What about the specialties they want to go to tomorrow and you have abolished them?' But the PSCs are preparing for these specialties that you are abolishing. I was caught by the aesthetics - ten thousand people across Greece - and they said: 'We who are studying now what are we going to do? Our department is being abolished. Our professional rights? Those who ended?’ In other words, you leave the whole training with this "wrap-wrecked" to a chaos, not just that. You see they disagree. I told you: The University of Thessaloniki, the largest university in the country, Aristotle, disagrees. The University of Crete disagrees. National Metsovio Polytechnic disagrees. They disagree with all the universities in the country. They disagree with technological education institutions. Nevertheless, you go ahead. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please, I'll be done in a minute. We had done an International University, and in fact, we were trying to upgrade it and come, Minister, and you merge TEIs, universities, without anyone knowing what the direction of an institution should really be so that we could bring children from Southeast Europe to study here in Greece. Instead of doing these, instead of bringing our Pristina children to study here, our children from Belgrade, from Bucharest, from Sofia, we continue to want to create these problems and to do, in addition to all others, export and students. Take tertiary education, for example. What do you do in your two-speed tertiary education? Where has it been heard that everyone will choose the topics and, therefore, if I am lucky, will I be able to introduce from secondary to higher education with a vacancy that has another degree of difficulty in getting it from another child who is studying in another region and the issues he has had to compete with in that area will be easier or more difficult? Is that an equivalency? Is it possible for the education system not to be objective? As far as the standard schools are concerned, we made standard schools. Instead of stepping up these school standards, you come and actually abolish their autonomy, as you get to the Ministry of Education all the responsibilities. You call this a bill that really promotes education? Sadly, it unleashes education. But the way in which you legislate - I repeat - is a way that does not honor you or your government, and you force us, instead of discussing what we could tomorrow add to your structure, we must discuss today that the next New Democracy government should be able to change this entire abortion so that it can implement a completely different education programme, a training programme that corresponds to and benefits all Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that under Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, a request has been made for a roll-call vote of Members of the Communist Party of Greece on the basis of and on Article 100 of the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Universities and T.E.I., access to higher education, experimental schools, General Archives of the State and other provisions". It will be carried out together with the request of the New Democracy. We proceed with Mr. Georgios Borente, MP of SYRIZA and second Vice-President of the Parliament. Here, Mr. Bored, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, what happens many times in this Chamber? Talks go up, anthems come back to dialogue, and at the same time, if any, they have the words easy. Many times they do not put them together, but they spit them out to the face of their political opponents, literally as happened yesterday with the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative at the beginning of this process, who appeared in this Chamber one day after the black anniversary of 21 April, in order to make unacceptable and insulting allegations about the functioning of Parliament, speaking of resolutions and implying that we are operating as contractual conventions of other times. Really? Are these things serious? I say to you this: there are too many lawyers here, perhaps even good ones. Sometimes they have ready-to-use expressions. However, it is not the Greek Parliament's first court to sit against the political opponent and at all costs to condemn it, even if you have the best impression of it, because that is what the professional duty says. That's not Parliament. Who does this extremity benefit yesterday? Well, we did the show for communication reasons. Who's in the end benefiting? Who? That extremity of this wing we sometimes denounce? Is he good? Mr Tsiaras has already come up here, and he has also referred to another anthem to the dialogue. Dialogue doesn't go up the tiles. Dialogue sometimes requires a low-speaking climate to be productive. And what did Mr. Chiaras say? You had a dialogue, he says, with yourself. Can I tell you something? Not now, but for years now, we have been discussing this issue at regional conferences, before this bill is even papered, several years ago, but then, with mayors who belong to the climate of New Democracy and with bodies whose administrations also belong there. Do you know who never showed up? The Members of the New Democracy! Not once! Not even one! And there was this - let us say this -'surrealistic' in the first place: The SYRIZA Members are trying with the institutions and mayors that I described earlier, to end up somewhere. Why didn't the New Democracy MPs come? Why? There are two versions. But, before I quote the versions, I will tell you this. The Athena project was drawn up on a dark and sandy night and was presented - is Mr. Tsiaras not here - in whose name? The selfishness of universities? I personally begged the then Minister, Mr Arvanitopoulos, for an elementary dialogue, if you would like it to be armed with arguments, in this process of the 'Athena' project.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u55	Where are we not attending? Tell us because I didn't get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u56	The MPs, in my region of Ioannina, have never been present at any meeting on this matter. Never!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u57	About what?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u58	What we are talking about, about university institutions, about our regions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u59	They were phoned?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u60	Oh, no! Tell us where we were called and we didn't come. Because I know about myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u61	Let me tell you, Mr. Bourra, take your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u62	Tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u63	Please, Mr. Barremen, don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, I am interrupted. It can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u65	Don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u66	I can't be interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u67	Answer my question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u68	Mr. Bourra, please, no dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Bourra, I want the dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u70	Me, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u71	I want the dialogue, but not on those terms of chaos, not on these terms.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u72	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u73	Give me some time now, Mr President, I do not do it often. So I'm saying this. The good version is they don't have a place. The bad version is the one that is probably hidden. What is your position for regional universities, what is your position? You want them? Pick 'em up and get 'em where? Tell us! Take them where? Because that, avoid that promise, because if you do it will be a threat, it will not be a promise, it will be a threat to the one who listens to you. So tell us, how do you want them and how do you want them? To be integrated into the needs of each area?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u74	You don't answer my question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u75	So I answer it in the most up-to-date way. Say what you want, where do you want them, and if you don't want them, where will you take them? Tell the Greek people. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President hits the warning.]] Look at Greece has changed. After road axes and other works, Messolong and Agrini are a few minutes away from Patras. Napoleon divides a bridge with Patras. There have been changes in the world, Mr. Voridis. Here there are synergies and awards of university degrees which one can be on the one side of Europe and the other on the other. So where are we going to put a border? I say this to be the foundations within the needs of each region, production and other needs, and in my personal view also to be cells of spiritual, cultural life. I personally because I was trying to make a Tobacco Museum, after a concession of the Ministry of Rural Development, a building, and I tried to get the University of Patras into this process, to acquire these institutions an entity of cultural and intellectual nature, apart from meeting these needs that I mentioned earlier. So I say that consensus on education is very good and necessary. It's a good consensus. Sometimes it leads to the avoidance of this sewing-out, the eternal in the Greek state in the field of education. But if there is to be consensus, we must come to the dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Mitsotakis will be here shortly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u77	No, soon Mr. Mitsotakis will be here. We're going up to this Step. He'll be here. And what Mr. Mitsotakis will do when he comes, that's the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u78	He's gonna take out what you've done!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u79	I have put it to you, avoid answering, and you have reason to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u80	He'll be here soon. Sit down and listen to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u81	The Member, Mr Tsiaras, shall request permission from a short-day absence abroad from 1 May to 5 May 2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u82	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We shall proceed with the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Hadjisavva. Here, Mr. Hadjisavva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Great week we legislate once again. You'll tell me, this is where it happened on the day of the Panagia to bring a memorandum to the vote. However, the unauthorised situation that continued is that at 23.20 hours, when the bill was submitted, we were informed that the next morning we had to have all the parliamentarians of the province to be in Athens to attend this committee. The clear culture of SYRIZA continues in this bill, which is a follow-up to the previous bill and wants to level education, as it has achieved all the rest of the last four years it has been ruling. We have to suggest to you a plan for education, but we won't tell you, because you couldn't understand it because it involves means such as homeland, nation, debt for the nation, debt for the country. I wonder how you read some texts, such as the "Ascist" of Kazantzakis, which is filled with such concepts. Do you understand what he says when he talks about a nation when he talks about debts to the tribe? Take care of your party clientele. You open schools, you close schools, you say the TEIs will do them, but it's more like the TEIs to do them. The excuse, which you have for the whole of this situation, is that others have done so or that they have done worse. The point is, you're supposed to come here to get something better. Is that what the Greek society expected, unfortunately, of you? All operators disagree. I have here a list of institutions and hundreds of e-mails the last time the consultation took place. Chairman of the Rectors' Synod of the AEI, Rector University of Crete, President of the Federation of Middle Education Officers, OLEME, President of the Teaching Federation of Greece, Chairman of the Technical Chamber of Greece, President of the Association of Middle Education Officers of Standards and Experimental Schools, Chairman of the Parents Association of the 1st Experimental Gymnasium of Athens, President of the Parents Association of the Model Gymnasium of Gymnasiums. All the above that I mentioned, IAEA, TEH, ELME etc., is nothing golden, those who send them to us, to have something to say. Your mates are who in the anti-Fascist struggle and they swear Golden Dawn from morning to night and now disagree with what you bring. Why do they disagree? More generally, have you solved any of the existing problems of the Greek people? I am not talking now about problems of illegal immigrants in hot spots. That's what you're going through day to night. To students, students of all levels, have you given any solution to the problems they face? Have you given their financial problems a solution? Do they have free training? Is there any level of public education that doesn't require money from children's parents? And I'm referring to the very simple things, like taking part in a school event or going to an expedition. It is not an option, it is not possible for some children not to go because their families cannot support them. What are you doing with high school and high school schools? Are you now fighting the traditional education system with care centres and preparations, supposedly, for higher education? And when they get into college, don't they have to pay to even get their writings? What trouble have you solved? Link to work. Have you solved this problem? What are we doing? We're studying scientists to leave abroad. Do they have a favourable or generally safe environment even for their physical integrity where they study? Oh, no. In fact, you sometimes say that it is also an activism that happens in the universities. Here you will tell me that even last night, today at dawn, she was attacked by a cubicle of MATs, the well-known MAT bag that is like a box bag. But being attacked with stones and molotovs is no longer a new one. Here is an attack with a kalashnikov. This particular clutch of MATs has been attacked. You went there, you did a communal trick, that you had duo in Exarchia, you went to two buildings to evacuate them for two or three hours, in order to extinguish the general sense of the people. Have you given any solution to teachers for the last four years you've been ruling? Have you solved their financial problems? I don't mean to make them feel good as a future. They are hostages of the respective government, depending on whether we are in a pre-election period and how the interests of the government or the local MP are served. Not to mention this again - because I am constantly referring to special treatment. Students and teachers and parents have reached their limits. The students stay out of infrastructure. Teachers are being pushed into black work. You say to them, 'You must work black, otherwise you do not survive'. And because parents are sending their children there to have even a restoration of some functions - because our society, unfortunately, cannot live with people who have these problems - are in despair. I've had an incident that they've been trying for months and couldn't even go to their jobs, because their child couldn't join such a structure. And that was with various excuses, such as lack of teachers, etc. However, the problem facing SYRIZA and the political system in general - and this seems in the last few days from the statements on the forthcoming elections - is the huge leaks to the Golden Dawn. It is said by Theodoropoulos, the author of the newspaper “Kathemerini”. In fact, it generally speaks of the interventions in the Golden Dawn trial that are going on every day and are being intensively delayed, but it is due to this ridiculous indictment. It's not because of anything else. You should at least admit that. This is because more and more betrayed Greeks turn their back on SYRIZA who fooled them to save them revolutionaryly and methodically and come to the Golden Dawn. However, neither the data indictment of the collapsed trial can change the result nor, of course, will there be frustrated voters of SYRIZA re-trusting SYRIZA. On the other hand, there is no opposition. If possible, after these four destructive years of SYRIZA, are they discussing in the New Democracy whether they will be able to take self-reliance? But how will this happen when we have statements from various executives and candidates with New Democracy - I will not even mention the name - who say that we are the Ottoman children, that we are an artificial nation, that we are oppressing Makedonski and, allegedly, the myth of genocide and all that? In general, you like New Democracy to join your polls people and executives whose physical position was normally in SYRIZA. Why? Because what you say you are turning to the center is essentially an absolute turn to the left. SYRIZA was supposed to throw bridges to the broken PASOK that exists nowhere in society. PASOK only has executives. He doesn't have a people to follow. They are collected from all over Greece to fill a conference of small dimensions in Athens. And while they've broken up, and SYRIZA says he got the bridges there, something else suddenly happens. In addition to the PASOK personnel, on the bridges you throw, they are pinching and executives of the New Democracy, such as Mr. Dendias, who has hand in hand with SYRIZA in recent months is consistent with and interfering with SYRIZA's politics and tactics and is being handled by SYRIZA MPs. I believe that this is a precedent and a confession, of course, for the cooperation of the New Democracy and SYRIZA, when it will be requested by your mandates, who give you orders to apply the Memorandum Laws. And these have, of course, been confessed by Mrs Bakoyannis that there was a pretext - allegedly - of the memorandum that was passed by New Democracy in August 2015, and then the government could fall. The second report was a report by the Prime Minister on the fact that he is certain that Venizelos will be proposing Venizelos for the President of the Republic. Thirdly, of course, this is the anti-fascist fight of fresh water, of wrongdoing and of political vulgarity and pitifulness. Here comes the rotten media and they say that - supposedly - the Golden Dawn voted against the proposal for German debts. It seems to you that the plan you had to do here ruined your picture, because the Golden Dawn did the first thing it did when it entered the House was to ask, demand the Germans' debts, who squeeze our finger and make you all vote for memoirs and say we owe them above. What's the truth, and why did this journalistic atrocity happen? Because only the JRC voted against the proposal on German debts and you had to protect your petty child. The JRC colluded with the New Democracy. Why don't you pet it? He participates for decades in every tier of local government. Didn't the JRC rule or govern? Aren't decisions taken in local government? He has access to and control of the media. All day, some stations have been playing KICs. If, of course, the Golden Dawn had this access to the media and had a hundred years of presence, it would rule now, it would hardly enter the House. Of course, only in Greece has the KIC and its ideological analogy now appears. Let's just say in former Soviet countries it's forbidden and lawfully. So you are bringing in some unacceptable amendments, such as the parliamentary amendment with a special number of 224, to increase the tetrahydrocannabinol level in the cannabis harvested. You bring amendments, which provide for other departments to be set up at the Kozani and Florina schools. It seems to be done clearly in order to serve your party clientele. At Kilkis, with six acres in a TEI, it only has one department and you don't care. Do you know why? Because that's where you ran out of a congressman. What should you serve? Finally, an amendment which, when it came, really surprised us, says: 'Financing the Orthodox Academy of Crete for research projects'. When I saw the MPs, who sign it, who are so cut off for the Orthodoxy, I entered and searched and said: "The Orthodox Academy of Crete, with the participation of the Roman Catholic Church, was the Orthodox Academy of Crete". I said, too! And another: "Abstracting universal science at the Orthodox Academy of Crete" and "Celebration of the anniversary for the insurrection of the Polytechnic". So tell us, and we got scared at some point. We are voting against. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I have been informed, before I go to Vima - in half a minute, Mr President - that in Central Macedonia thousands of farmers are out of programme. Only in Kilkis, one of the six hundred thirty, who were integrated, the six hundred were out. Even a memorial pretendion that this four-year period, as Lapavitsa once said, must be prepared in the primary sector, there has been no preparation for economic autonomy and you continue to destroy the primary sector. No farmer will be left, no farmer will be able to survive this nation and this country. That's why the victory messages for the Golden Dawn are continuous. Where we have events, whether it is for local government or for the European elections, the halls are filled. People come in, who are thirsty to hear someone represent him and see that only Golden Dawn has been defender of the people, does not cooperate with the enemies of the people, does not cooperate in the extermination of the Greek people, persecuted, resisted and defeated. Because, whether you like it or not you like it, Greek society has a prominent position and the priest and the teacher. "Good Resurrection" for the nation. I hope, at some point, that the lies you're talking about, and about the Golden Dawn, and for anyone who resists, will stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u84	Mr Chogas, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the fierce, but irresponsible criticism of the New Democracy against this legislation and its unjustly questioning suggests with distinct clarity that it is intimidated by the contents of the bill. It is frightened by its obvious social acceptance and attempts to limit it and contaminate it at the same time. It's not the first time, though. Every time, fearing the integrity and usefulness of a bill, it roars to blur its provisions. That's what he's doing today. He's just ruining. It is a reality which is simply completely different, which is, on the contrary, clear and honest. Our government takes the structure of higher education seriously, since any debate on it has delayed traits. In the computer of the students, there will be only university departments. University and technological education becomes a single learning chain in the university system, which will in future serve as a research and knowledge hub. And, in conjunction with the research and university poles acquired by the country, they incorporate it into the evolutionary process followed by European standards. This draft law completes the institutional reform needed in education, in response to the adequate injustices, inequality and anxiety of pupils and parents, creating a single space for education. It is the end of a route of the national dialogue on education from the year 2016. It is the end of intensive consultation, which lasted for about three years, following an unprecedented process of democratic analysis and dialogue, on the optimisation of the fields of education in a modern society. Therefore, your objections to sloppiness, haste and fast track procedures are escapisms of meagre ideological perceptions, sterile and barbarous confrontation, looking at elections alone. The draft law breaks down at least two myths: That technological education is being abolished and high school has been orphaning since its third grade, allegedly subjugating to class interests. The truth is, both of these issues are being upgraded. And it is certain that, if the provisions of this bill are not applied, we are leading to the past and to the continuation of the old regime, which you are fighting against, without wishing to change it. Today there is nothing that reminds me of the third of high school, but only the degraded education, which, with the new arrangements, acquires meaning and substance, on the basis of which young people and young people can conditionally enter higher education without examinations. This is an important innovative provision. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is not just a bill, it is a historic reform of a holistic educational perception. And he's already on his way to his date with the history of the future. And I'm sure of his positive attitude to this. For these reasons, I urge you to vote in favour of this bill, a deep artery in the field of education. And I come to the amendment on the establishment of the Institute of Vine and Wine in Nemea Corinthia and Beekeeping in Argos. This amendment seeks to resolve a long-term request from the people of Corinthia and especially Nemea, with the rich tradition of wine production. The establishment of a State body, with a view to integrated and applied research in the wine and wine sectors, is the last act, which put an end to the lack of expertise on wine and wine, the lack of which has certainly affected the production process. Thus, as part of the upgrading of the University of Peloponnese and the provision for the establishment of a university research centre, the proposal for the establishment of a Institute for Vineyards and Wine based in Nemea Corinthia is expected to make a significant contribution to the productive reconstruction of the Peloponnese Region, since it will be possible to achieve production of high quality products and to strengthen export dynamics, due to its qualitative upgrading, which will have as a key tool the Institute's reason. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Moreover, the well-founded high expectation is based on the fact that research by the institute on how to improve wine production, taking into account the constantly changing environmental, economic and social conditions, as well as on the improvement of systemic conditions for applied research with certainty, will contribute towards the efficiency of crop production and the need to use the research results from the producers concerned. In addition to this, the institute's programmes will be able to contribute to the development of new varieties which will then contribute to the production of high quality local wines. Finally, Nemea, as the Institute's proposed head office, with its part history, but also a number of comparative advantages, such as the high know-how in winemaking and the production of wines of high quality - hence the reason for the coexistence in the area of a large number of wineries - and related experience in this area, with full certainty, is expected to respond to this proposal and to be positively dominant in the region's history, namely as a city with highly productive capacity in winemaking and its production, and ultimately to justify its choice. There is the second part, concerning the Institute of Apiculture, Minister, and it was originally proposed for the Argos and after the amendment of the establishment of the Department of Rural Economy, we should see whether this is still the direction. In the absence of this direction, I believe, Minister, that the natural successor to this institute is Corinthia, as apiculture in Corinthia is in full progress, in an outburst of production I would say, since both climate conditions and easy accessibility to the Corinthian prefecture have the effect of new investors appearing in general as an investment product of particular efficiency.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u86	Please finish, Mr. Choga.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u87	I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. Therefore, given that the restructuring at the University of Peloponnese did not have an impact on the Corinthian sector concerned, I believe that the Institute of Beekeeping should settle in Corinthia, because it will make a significant contribution to the eruption of productive activity, with significant benefits for the local economy and society, which brings profoundly the impact of the crisis on unemployment, development and social prospects. Dear Minister, I submit, with all due respect and seriousness, the request I have described, awaiting acceptance and believing in your holistic perception of the education and education of a society escaped from the crisis, but still feels the annoying existence of the ash that produced its ash. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Giolas has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u89	Mr President, I would then like the floor for some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u90	Yes, Minister. But since I have already announced Mr Gilola, I would ask you to speak later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u91	Of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u92	Here, Mr Giola, you have the floor for five minutes, and then the Minister will follow for the legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. In a strange coincidence and circumstance, just before my speech, Mr Vorides referred to some of the issues of 'ruspheology', so I will omit some of those points which I would like to highlight and imply for this bill, because we must respond to some of the ideological advances, not least those made by the other intelligent and very good operator of the Vorides speech. So he said that we are moving towards equilibrium and statism, even with this bill. So our response is as follows: the wrong reading. We are supporters of the social state, supporters of the protection of the peoples, of vulnerable layers. We are therefore seeking, with this bill, to upgrade the provision of secondary and higher education so that all citizens can enjoy these rights. Secondly, we have also been accused of ethnicity. So my colleague has said that we are limiting the lesson of Religiouss or I do not know what else, although the lesson of Religiouss is also included in secondary education, unless Religiouss misunderstood them and perhaps consider them as catechism and functional, as we used to call it, Mr Javara. Let's go down. He also spoke of an attack on the Ancient Greek and Latin, that with this bill we attack the Ancient Greek and Latin. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the spirit of the Ancient Greeks follows, we are close to reading, we are not sterile in the form of etymology, grammar and editorial. Good or bad - well - and at a very happy time - we take examples from the Ancient Greeks, it is our language that is alive, which is evolving in the course of the centuries and from it we cannot, therefore, distance ourselves. Finally, in my opinion, it is a cheap argument for setting up a university school in Argos, as if from your point of view no ruffet has happened over the years. In any case, however, I do not consider it a rousphetti, and I will explain why, Mr President and Mr Voridis, you may be able to answer the complaints you will receive from your political friend Mr Kambossos, the Mayor of the city of Argos - Mycena, in which you must apologize, because you have founded a department of university schools. For Argos, I have to say, my dear fellow Member, that it has suffered, like several provincial small towns, a deindustrialisation for decades. Furthermore, the trade-agricultural movement, which, in view of the economic crisis, was founded at very low levels, has also been supported. The Argos, therefore, had to be included in the country of academics, had to go to art, a reason, of science, to be able to increase its prestige, in order to be able to understand the position that it is entitled to. So, I think you can unjustly plead that. It was one of the advances, which we, at least, had set. It has been accepted by the Minister, in consultation, consensus and absolute approval of the Rector and so we can only welcome it. You, I think, will have a problem with your next ride to Argolida, Mr. Comrade. Finally, I must put forward a point of view and thanks in this respect, but I also think that it should be said in this Chamber, because also in Nafplion, in which the Department of Theatre Studies was established, a School of Fine Arts was now set up with one section, the Department of Theatre Studies, which, however, now receives a second section, the Department of Performing Studies. It is true that, perhaps in no European state, if I am not mistaken, there is no shortage, Mr Skourico, of such a section that you have fought for and been a professor at the Nafplio Theatre Science School.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u94	And Kabul exists. Greece doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u95	So in Kabul there is a higher academic establishment, that is to say, and we are talking about studying hypocritical, directing. In addition to that, it was necessary, it was demanded, it was fair and it was done. And I have to pay tribute to my dear colleague and partner, Panos rusty, who has worked for so many years to do this. It was appropriate, as I said, to give him due thanks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u97	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u98	There are some legislative improvements, and I am clarifying one particular one, which is an extension to the issue of GSP and colleges, to include the children, who are today in the first year, even the last year of graduation. So we're giving this extension.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u99	There are two parliamentary amendments. It is the general number 2149 and specialist 258, which relates to the professional rights of engineers in previous years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u100	We were right, Minister, yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u101	You were right to say that New Democracy has no place because we were waiting. This is why there was a debate with Mr Kelles in the Committee on Forums. Mr. Kelles promised to bring the plan.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u102	We were waiting for you to bring in.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u103	No, I asked you whether the New Democracy had a position and you said: 'I am sure it is in a position'. So we waited, but nothing's come. We now put it before us, we are signing up to it by engineers. I think it's very positive. There is one amendment by Mr Sevastakis, the general number 2150 and a specialist of 259 for sports activities in schools and one by Mr Gaki with Mr Igoumenides and Mr Pavlides for municipal water operations, or by a general number of 2151 and a specialist of 260. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u104	Mrs Stavrou has the floor, and immediately thereafter the President of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, fellow Members of Parliament and fellow Members, today's multi-legislative project institutionalises the establishment of a single higher education and research area which, on the one hand, aims to close the gap between the theory - science and in practice - technological applications and, on the other, creates strong networked regional universities capable of playing their educational, research and social role. This achieves this by synergies between university departments and so far TEI or TEI, with the establishment of new departments, where necessary, as well as university research centres. Thessaloniki-based International University of Greece absorbs the ATHI Thessaloniki, the TEI of Central Macedonia and the TEI of Eastern Macedonia - Thrace, integrating almost all of their departments. Following adjustments, mainly due to a common subject, seven schools with thirty-three departments were formed with a broad consensus, precisely what Athens did not manage to break down. I do not understand the abomination, which was typical of which he commented yesterday - and, of course, today, it has shown less abomination - a New Democracy colleague on the presumption of the excellence of foreignlanguages, but of his leftovers, until now the IPAC. That's what he said. What do they have to do with the TEIs? The children of the TEI, if anything, know that if they're caught copying, they'll be punished the same and not the teacher. This is an important knowledge of life. The Departments of the Department of International Studies are being upgraded to the University Centre of International Studies with first, humanitarian, social and economic sciences and second, science and technology, both in Greek and in a foreign language, at the same time, with special programs for learning Greek language for foreigners, because the limits of our language are the limits of our thinking as Bourdieu says. We find it daily by the language level of your fans, ladies and gentlemen, who gather in every SYRIZA gathering, to hold against the Prespecies Agreement. And yes, there is a kind of language that decides without argument and launches designations seeking to terrorize, which is indeed fascism. The Departments of the Centre for International Programmes of Study of the International Programmes of the International Programmes of the International Development of Vocational Training of the International Programmes of the International Development of Vocational Training are therefore provided for in terms of the establishment of first and second Master's courses. The University Research Centre is also established, with a view to conducting a basic and applied research in accordance with the needs of the country and its interconnection with legal persons governed by public and private law, with education, economy, society, culture. In addition, the Institute for Educational Research and Development is established again to study and implement new teaching methods and teaching methods using information and communication technologies, as well as to study the quality of the curriculum, including international, and to provide advisory services to other higher education institutions. I would like to believe that out of the five hundred new posts, the three hundred re-procedures due to retirement, and also the thousands of five hundred new scientists, a sufficient number will be channelled to the International University of Greece by changing the landscape to all sections. I also want to believe that the two-year sections, the other innovation of today's bill, will be adequately served to provide upgraded training to the graduates of the ESDP, who will have free access to them. Free access is established in some parts at least, thus launching the implementation, even in part, of the classic Left's commitment to higher education in our country, which can only be linked to upgraded and, above all, improper procedures for obtaining a high-school diploma. I will be tempted to comment on the parafiscality of the so-called downgrading of general education in the third grade. We all know that high school III has always revolved around the introduction to higher education, and with an unambiguous depreciation and this role in recent years, expressed by the exhaustion of the range of absences from students, at best. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like a minute, Mr President. The institutional changes first - first of all general education is rescued in the second and in the third grades, early choices of life-threatening children are prevented, as for the preparatory role of the Third High School is accepted and implemented methodically, institutionally and in addition by teachers with the possibility of continuing training and in departments with fewer students and students. Why exactly are protesters protesting? Would it be because the seventeen-year-olds, seventeen and eighteen-year-olds, eighteen-year-olds who will vote for the first time this year will take into account the possibility of these changes being cancelled if SYRIZA is hopelessly not government next school year and will vote accordingly? I do not want to deal with the paraphilis of the destruction of the model schools, I will only say that the ideological insistence of the Antipolitics on class climbing a few, something like a safety valve that leaves a little steam, is in direct conflict with the demand for an increase in the level of many, with the aim of reducing to the elimination of inequalities, teachers and others.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u106	Please finish, Mrs. Stabilis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u107	I will make a special reference to the sixth part concerning the General Archives of the State, which includes 42 articles, a mini bill, namely. It is reorganization and upgrading so that the collection, processing and storage of the archiving material, both modern and older, is done in the most excellent way. Institutions, such as the IRS and the Director-General, are provided for, but also refused, organisation and structure in addresses and departments with descriptions of the positions of their principals, officials and special partners, which is self-evident for such a multifaceted object. A four-year strategic plan is planned and there are special provisions for categories such as ecclesiastical, private and other specific categories of archives. Having been born in a city where the archives were destroyed in 1913, burned, and what was left was destroyed or looted in 1916-1918, I find it very important to preserve what can be preserved, to seek on any private or other source anything that can be found and emerge by promoting knowledge of historical truth, self-knowledge after all. To this end, I consider it necessary - and I would like to stress that from this step, Minister - that the services of the General Archives of the State should be properly served in the regional unit of Serres, so that they can come out of the present function.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u108	Mrs Stuboulis, I would ask you very much to complete this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u109	It is therefore important that today's bill for completing the reform of education in all its three stages, which not only breaks down as in 2014, not only does it not face redundancies of teachers and dismantling of departments, but is upgraded to the direction of education that forms citizens and civilisations capable and capable of claiming a society of equality, justice and freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u110	Civilians! We're learning new words.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u111	The President of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u112	New Greek language seminars! Mr. Javarra, we have New Greek seminars.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u113	Your thoughts can't stand it, not language.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, I was going to take the floor and talk about this abominable Gavroglou bill, a bill which, as all the speakers in the New Democracy have pointed out, gives the graceful shot at the multi-substantiated public higher education. It reflects technological education in an unsatisfactory way, removes all concepts of autonomy and freedom from standard schools. It creates parts with purely customer criteria, even with last-minute parliamentary amendments. I wonder how much study and analysis has been done, so that you can only accept the creation of sections for voting reasons in areas where you have a major political problem. This is how you understand, Minister, the map of higher education. You're getting all your ideologically repulsive in public education. You have been forced to follow the hardest neoliberal memorial policy in the economy and to somehow be able to balance, you are now coming and dismantle what is left of higher education. But I will not talk about education today, because news has its own potential. Yesterday, with a post on the Internet, the undocumented Deputy Minister of your Government, Mr. Paulakis, attacked vulgarly against the candidate MEP of the New Democracy of Stelios Kymbropoulou. He effectively accused him of being open, because he made use of the law for people with disabilities, to be appointed to the ESS and left unacceptable implied for a man whose personal journey is an example for all of us! [[Applause extended by the New Democracy Ward]] Is that how you perceive a community of equal opportunities? Shame on you for backing him quietly! So that's it! So far, ladies and gentlemen! Can I tell you something? Stelios Kyburopoulos personally met him a few months ago. Nobody's been spared. Stelios does not need us, we, the Greek society has the need for Stelios Kymbropoulou and the positive example he gives through his own personal path. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But there are times when you know in politics that drops out of the glass. It is now a matter for me personally that goes beyond the narrow limits of policy. It's a matter of dignity. It's a matter of quality. It is ultimately a question of ethos in public dialogue, and this, perhaps, is also the biggest problem in the next elections, a problem that goes beyond economic problems, overcomes the difficulties in how our democracy works. Finally, who do we want to move on and who do we want to leave behind with? The knot arrived at the comb. We are no longer tolerated by Mr Polakis, and immediately after Easter, on the basis of Rule 84(2) of the Constitution and Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure, the New Democracy is tabling a motion of censure against the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Polakis, and come here to defend him all of you. All of you! And let's see if we want a real Greece of many or a Greece of the Polakis. [[Upright Members of the New Democracy applaud vividly and protractedly]] I won't talk anymore today. The speech I was about to make on education, I'm presenting it to the Minutes. The rest, Minister, and colleagues of the government majority, will see you right after Easter. Dibbeit, didn't you want to, Mr. Tsipras? Debait, you will have here in the House, before the Greek people and take Paulakis. After all, you are one!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u115	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u116	I have nothing to answer, because Mr. Mitsotakis obviously filed his speech on education. I'll beg you to bring me to read it. I don't understand why you didn't add that. Mr. Mitsotakis, I've been watching you...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u117	Can you tell us anything about the truck? You represent the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u118	You're a Minister of Education. It's too bad you're an academic...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u119	Please, Mr. Bourra. That's not behaviour.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u120	Because I have really heard about dignity, ethos and public speech, Mr President, if I read correctly, from Cyprus you said: "The government of SYRIZA has turned universities into centres for the manufacture of molotovs and men who give asylum to criminal gangs". You either have complete ignorance or you do it consciously. In both cases the anecdotes of the day are the concept of "reliability" and "ethic" in the public speech after them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u121	Mr. Buras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u122	I am really sorry, Mr Minister of Education, that you are also an academic and did not find a word about what the President of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, denounced. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And you are the Minister of Education who should teach the new morals. You are not condemning Mr. Polakis' style and spirit. That's who you are and that's who you are! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you will allow me once again to stress that I consider the way in which you are dealing with the flaming issues of education, both those of its structure and its content to be extremely dangerous. You have submitted to the House, as our rapporteur, Mrs Kerameos, has said, a plan which contains provisions for all levels of education, lifelong learning, the framework for the operation of pilot and experimental schools, as well as arrangements for supervised organisations. You brought it at midnight to be discussed in the Committee on Morphic Affairs the next day at noon. In other words, parliamentarians were asked to study two hundred and six articles and a thousand hundred and twenty pages that touch the entire range of the education process over a single night. I should also like to add - as Mrs Kerameos said - that you should add to this bill the amount of amendments - of unrelated ministers and MPs - which make it more than a thousand pages. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and its co-chairmen, did you not constantly report the previous government? And it was Mr Bored - I don't know if he is in the Chamber, he saw, he spoke, and he was abducted - who did not do the President's job yesterday at the beginning of the day, he told us that this was the case in the past. Let me remind you - many of you were not here - that there was indeed an emergency in the previous period, but they were urgent commitments in the country due to the well-known loan obligations from the Memorandums. You yelled and weeped then. Honestly, I remember my role as Secretary-General of the Parliamentary Group and what happened in the corridors. We point out that you are completely benefiting from the parliamentary procedure and yourself. However, I am not going to focus on this serious point of order. I'll move on. Of course within five minutes for a thousand pages of five hundred what to come first? I would point out a few things. Minister, I imagine you agree that the way in which higher education is introduced must be understandable, incomprehensible and with equal opportunities for all. Unfortunately, in the draft law that you have brought in and asked us to adopt, you are considering a complex system of inquiries and gaps. You're making a division of sections, etc. The first time comes for the adoption of a law, which needs to be implemented next year. This acceleration results in absolute surprise and anxiety for their students and families. General education courses are dismantled and intensified. This results in high school becoming an examination centre. He's losing his educational character, and he's turning into a tutorial. You only have a couple of hours at the special courses. Time is running out, so I will reflect on the fact that the draft law submitted by the government is sloppy and lack of a strategy for the development of education and research. This is a multi-fashioned structure which leaves many points indiscreet and which need to be regulated by ministerial decisions in the future. The main arrangements include the complete abolition of the country's TEIs and their merger with the universities. Universities have risen sharply, without understanding of the needs of the market and the link to employment. Academic and quality criteria shall not be taken into account. Research centres and institutes are established with objects that overlap with the existing General Secretariat for Research and Technology, and a different framework for their operation and development is created, without coordination and synergy with the existing ones. It repeals the technical area of higher education, does not follow feasibility and sustainability reports, does not take into account evaluation reports, does not guarantee the professional rights of graduates. The Minister, in simple words, has a micro-political target. And it proved this a moment ago, when he tried to justify undoubtedly, in the pretext of sinfulness of how he created new sections without study, without any prior consultation with academic institutions. He told us he was just calling a dean and I don't know what else. They have organs, Minister, the foundations. They have structures and they must respect you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u123	Mr. Bourra, you're about to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u124	With these thoughts and given the fact that he is not considered a dialogue, giving five minutes to analyse a thousand five hundred pages, I will say that I am very sorry, because I have many years in this House and I see that this very deterioration of Parliament is the first time in recent years. All bills have almost introduced them as urgent and urgent. You are abolishing dialogue and the democratic process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u125	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u126	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u127	Here, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u128	There is an issue that comes back and is also in the speech by Mr Mitsotakis I am reading at the moment. Mr. Bourra, are you saying... where's Mr. Bourras?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u129	I'm here. I'm not leaving. I hear you, and if I have to, I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u130	I didn't say you were leaving. I just couldn't find you. So you say that there are infinite divisions and we create so many others. Right? Do you know how many departments there are today at universities and at TEI in number? You don't know him. It's four hundred fifty. With our proposals of the new architecture, do you know how much it is? Four hundred fifty is four hundred thirty. That is why it is useful to know arithmetic. So I say not to create tensions. There are many points to which we can agree or disagree. In the numbers, we can't argue. So don't say that, there's a section overarm, one or the other, etc. The numbers are: four hundred fifty today and four hundred thirty are made with the new architecture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, too. Mr Leventis, President-in-Office of the Council, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u132	I should like to welcome the President-in-Office, the Minister and the Minister who are in the chairs and the honourable Members. Education is one thing for which, in the most degraded democratic states, a consensus is being attempted and there should be no surprises and a change of laws in the middle of the year. This is a very basic thing. I don't know what's gotten into her lately solving everything. All the things that she hasn't even touched for four years has been caught by a premier that she has to solve at this time. What kind of study it is that you display on all matters and where it is intended I cannot understand. Let us leave the subject of the amendments to the effect that they are being tampering with the bill under discussion and that the House is being humiliated. For who has studied the amendments? Who has judged whether they are appropriate or would cause a problem in their application or be contrary to the laws? Who has judged this? Nobody. The amendments, as far as they exist, degrade the value and validity of the House - that is what you know - and it shows that the country's governance, as if they were. This word fits governance when amendments are made to each bill. And here she has been dirty in her nest and the right, because through this method she has ruled for decades. And don't complain about Tsipras following the same tactic. Just, of course, Tsipras promised a more moral way of governing and when it came to power, it found that only with the couppet you have absolute control of power and you do what you want and become a dictatorship. They ask some: "What did you do, Mr. Leventis, that the Centro Association has been in the House for four years?" What could we achieve? With the Kammenos and Tsipras system, what could we achieve? Have we ever been in love about something? What could we achieve? Our success lies in the struggles, which we have given for a number of things, such as the reduction of the number of Members, the reduction of expenditure, the reduction of the fleet of poster and seconded persons living in Parliament and in the margins and all these loathsomenesss, which are carried out in the middle of a crisis that plagues all the social strata. That's what we did. What else could we do? [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] We're not bullies to do what a right-wing company does. We are democratic people who believe that the proposal is worthwhile as a proposal and will be taken into account. We did not know that there have been dictatorships in this House. I tried at first, when the bill of simple analogy came, to tell Tsipras not to pass the bills with a hundred fifty - two and a hundred fifty - three. Tsipras said "yes, yes, yes" and then he continued and ruled in exactly the same way as Samarades, Mitsotakis, with all of them. It's nothing different. And when something bad happens in the country has the nerve some people talk about consensus, a consensus you're building from the good days to get it as capital to bad ones. You in this Chamber remember consensus in the bad days. You need to know that consensus is built as a climate in good days, to be a chapter in bad. That's how there's a consensus. That's why I said and pointed out to Tsipras not to pass bills with a hundred fifty two and a hundred fifty three votes. Better not get through a bill at all. Besides, now the Minister's bill will throw it in the trash when the government falls. Do you, Minister, really think you're legislating right now? Since, as you guys are tearing up all previous bills, they'll tear yours. This will be your luck, Minister, since you hadn't entered a dialogue. You're mild. You're doing everything you're talking about here. That mildness, why didn't you use it in dialogue with the other parties? Why didn't you take everyone's opinion? Here we have a complaint from colleges, which says their postgraduate titles are left useless, fifteen thousand families are left on the street and they don't know what they're going to do, who's going to do today, and they're going to start fines for colleges again. Will you pay, Mr. Gabroglou, the fines? Greece will pay for it. The regulation on colleges and the establishment of the GSC did it precisely to resolve the issue of fines that were coming. And you want us to return to the status of fines and social clauses? Is that what you want? To be regarded as being expelled from our society and the only way out is to go abroad? And abroad to recognize the titles and not here? Is that a policy of the Ministry of Education? I do not understand who is behind them, because there are some suspicions that they are hiding from behind some Cypriot institutions that give titles, but these institutions are also asking for a tuition. In essence, a SYRIZA government sends private education. Are you accusing Mitsotakis of introducing private universities and bringing private universities bypass through Cypriot institutions, Minister, because when they nurture their home-run colleges, what will all these students and their families do? They will address Cyprus, which operate in the institutions. In Cyprus there are tuition fees, there are trips, tickets, hotel expenses. Who's gonna put these on? Is that the free education? Do what you are protecting free education and undermining it, undermining it by sending the families to Cyprus. Or am I wrong? Am I wrong?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u133	Explain how this is done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u134	Are you the only unmistakable?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u135	No, I'm saying explain how it's done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u136	Is SYRIZA the Party of Infallibles? Did the Popes gather to SYRIZA? Grandes Popes? Please, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u137	Explain how it's done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u138	Another matter. We are before the European elections, one month left. Now for the Ministry of Education, what else can I talk about? All your arrangements are to fly and just vote on them and once the next government comes in, it will do what you do right now. That will do, Mr. Gabroglou. And you should not bother to legislate in the light of the abolition to be done by the next government. You shouldn't have done that, 'cause you have trouble with the House, the typographers here. We're spending cards for free. That is also the issue. Working hours for free and vervesse. A large part of our youth is afflicted by changes in the laws. And you trouble them, and you put them to costs. And, on the other hand, a hole in the water you do with what you are legislating with. This is the government. I want to say a few words about the media. In the media you have established: one of SYRIZA's and one of New Democracy's, and the most - very much - one of KINAL's, ends democracy there. Democratization's over there. I take the channels and answer: 'We will make special broadcasts' says 'in the pre-election period'. Well, and those of the New Democracy, SYRIZA, who come out every day - noon - noon what are they, outside the election period, all of them? Listen to what they're answering, so you know how much you've been struggling with this. They respond to the channels: "We will do, Mr. Leventis," they say to me "special election shows. And there we will call representatives of the Centroon Union." And I'm saying, well, these shows that happen all day long for "NOVARTIS", not to say now about what they are, about what you want, about Marinakis, about one man, about one man, and they have one of SYRIZA and one of New Democracy, what are they? They don't belong to the election period? Aren't these emissions affecting the election climate? These are fascist concepts, Mr. Phile. It is a fascist idea to tell me that the Centro Association will be called in the election period. Now what is it? Now why is it only SYRIZA and New Democracy? There are two parties? It's KINAL too, because they're preparing it and the KINAL for their winner in the New Democracy, so otherwise they'd have them in the trash too. Understand? Is this a democracy? Are you proud to be out? So you're fighting the right. But, right is fascism! I was born in a family that we considered fascism on the right. Since you, too, do not fight fascism, unfortunately, are there, if you do so, monopolisticly, excluding opponents. Two disgraceful amendments are made in this Parliament to help you 'the other side', contracted. Now let's not say what you're up to. If the people find out what is going on here in amendments and in caves, they will take us and pick us up if they find out what amendments are coming to Parliament. That's the first. The second is the democracy of the two parties. The people have struggled to strike bipartiteism, and you can barely bring it back, as if it were heaven. We have founded, we have fought to drive the two parties away - because they have gone bankrupt, your appointments, the'seas', your rumours, all the things that have happened - and you want to bring them back completely. And you teach the world - what? - polarization and acidification. And you're proud of this? The bills will be torn apart by the people, because they do not adopt bills that are not the product of consensus and consensus. One of the prisoners. The amendments degrade Parliament and you have made them everyday and legacy. That's the second one. Thirdly, the blockade of the Centroon Union from the channels shows fascist perceptions which I denounce to the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u139	I invite Mr. Vlavo to the Step. Here you go, Mr Vlavo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, when a government and a political leadership of the Ministry take the initiative to bring about such an important piece of legislation, such as education reform, it is obviously determined to have a dialogue, debate, because it simply wants this legislation to have the broadest possible consensus and, of course, to be long-term. I would say to both of these that the government has failed, because in fact both the process and in principle things have gone completely different. Everyone here is talking about dialogue and they say there has been dialogue. But dialogue means talking, suggesting, but also listening. Finally, how does this piece of legislation arrive in the House today? With concise procedures. And they are all across the street, all have to make comments, all have their objections, of course, with the top of the Officerial Representation, which promises that tomorrow as a government will make changes to important points in the bill. So, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, your ambition was to bring in a hundred-page piece of legislation here to be voted on and actually never to be implemented? Because, firstly, it will not prevent a number of things that can be implemented in the future will require amendment. And as I said, there was no dialogue, no institutions heard. We see a reaction, Minister, when we say that you brought dozens - perhaps hundreds - of amendments. My colleague brought you a package earlier. It has been heard that this whole debate has taken place in the past at these wonderful development conferences, to which the New Democracy MPs did not come. Yes, as far as I am concerned, I did not go to two of the so-called 'development conferences' in Attica, because I will come as a listener - well, as a applause from the Prime Minister, I would not be - just to listen to them? This isn't a conference. When at a meeting in which serious issues are being discussed, you are not given the floor, tell me: Why would you go? But most of those who went and from your own space or from the government felt what we commonly say, 'glastra', because they were unable to present their views. So these conferences, in the way I said, actually did not deal with the issues that the bill says, why don't you tell me, Minister, that, for example, at the Development Conference in Western Greece, the creation of an Agricultural School in Patras was discussed. This is a demand of society, does it need a rural new one? The fact that at the Agricultural School - which I have finished - there are no microscopes and other tools to train students, that does not touch you. You want a new Agronomician and most importantly you want a new law in Patras. I tell you that you did it in exchange for the Republican authorities to accept the TEI of Western Greece. And I'm not mistaken, because that's what you know. And because, now, we incorporated the TEIs, did we say what? Higher education. Where is the technological education that we all had to support? And the one that existed, we practically broke it. And we brought TEIs today to incorporate them. And where are business rights going? Where did you go, Minister, this famous committee, which you were doing at the time with the technological engineers and the Technical Chamber of Greece, which came up with a proposal, and you said that you would incorporate it, will you bring it in to guarantee professional rights? All this is gone. So what's left? Just some ideas, just some obsessed ideas, just some interest services. Because even the establishment of a department must be carried out by the relevant Ministry, which will come here to convince the National Representation, because this new school has to be made, and not by an amendment by a colleague who will take the Great Week to his region and will say: 'Look, after my actions, a new school has been created'. How many decades back do you want to shoot us? We said we could get over this. We said the crisis made us all better. We said we were all taught something. But where's the best? Where is what you want here today as an Opposition to welcome and vote? What is the prospect of tertiary education? Which area? Where should we reward you? Nowhere. That is why we are going to vote against, Mr Minister, because you really do not give any prospect. Like - as, with summary procedures, with no dialogue - participatory I mean dialogue, with substantial participation - you brought a multi-purpose bill, we got lost on hundreds of pages and that's where we lost the essence. This is what I think - and I close with that, Madam President - that it is another responsibility for the next government, for the government to start things differently and to restore some things, which are now being dismantled in the situation that has to be done again, with prospects, hope and respect for teachers and students. And because we are talking about colleges and private education, Minister, once you have answered: How long will we do not understand? Greek businessmen, Greek teachers, Greek students studying in Cyprus and we here hope that something can change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u141	The last speaker on the list is Mr Panayotopoulos. As far as I can see, he's not in the Chamber. Minister, you want to fill in something, or else I'll close the meeting?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u142	We've got secondarys.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u143	Are you going to do the dentures? You've spoken too much, as I learn from the Services. If it's too much...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u144	Madam President, one thing is to shorten the deadlines by the urgency procedure, but you will not deprive the parties' rapporteurs of their second words.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u145	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'm just being informed that you've all been over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u146	Oh, no. The rapporteurs spoke yesterday of a bill you see here. Here's the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u147	Let's go again! But how many times did you pick it up?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u148	"Come on again," Minister, because I have no helpers to read it. I raised it for society to understand, Minister, the conditions under which you legislate. Obviously, all the rapporteurs want - I don't know if you want, Mr. Phile - a few minutes for our dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u149	I just want to say that Mr. Philis had spoken twenty-two minutes and twenty-three seconds and you seventeen minutes and fifty-three seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u150	Fifteen minutes, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u151	You've spoken for two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u152	Fifteen minutes, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u153	Look, the servicemen don't make conspiracy here. So, Mr Philly, you have the floor, but all of us have already announced when the vote will take place.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Madam President. The bill we have debated today has produced a controversy, but I hope that it will not continue and then we will all work on implementing positive provisions that we recognise exist, as they are not all negative. I think, however, that we need to agree on a few things. I have heard that this draft law has, he says, provisions on rushphetological matters which do not take into account the evaluation of departments for universities. That's not true. The Minister replied that the number of departments is reduced and does not increase. We also know that the PPP has done an evaluation. We have heard the representative of the PPP in the committee. I would just like to say one word. I understand that the political climate in which these kinds of processes are usually being established and abolished is a climate where localism is emerging and localism is perceived. I would expect to hear from someone here in the New Democracy, for example, that it is voting against a specific provision for setting up a branch. I didn't hear it. So, if there is this virus to which you have referred, it is not only about one party, but also about our political system as a whole, and about dealing with it next time, without among us demagogues. Secondly, for high school we heard conflicting criticisms. It is the "easy" school that we are going to build, i.e. cheap and offshore in New Democracy, but with class barriers, as the JRC says. Both can't be done. It can be either one or the other. It is obvious, in my opinion, that we want a school of democratic and participatory, with knowledge, skills and full-time education. We referred to this. That's why we're focusing on general school education and the specific direction of High School III. I would like to say that as far as the issues of the school standards mentioned are concerned, we are not abolishing anything. What we are doing is elect the process of standards and experimental schools. They remain the way they remain. They are not abolished - I repeat - but they are elected. We do not want to build a system of elite schools, with aristocratic education proposed by the New Democracy, in order to have dozens of such schools throughout Greece. The argument that so poor children will be better educated is essentially an acceptance of the argument that the rest of the training will be outside the government radar to upgrade it. We want all schools perfectly and not a few schools of excellence. Ladies and gentlemen, we have also heard a rhetoric here which leads us to claim the bright past, an aristocracy around the language. I would like to say that what we hear about the issue of ancient Greeks in schools, as you know, in the form that exist, leads us to a perception of questioning education reform in 1976. In other words, it is another element of questioning democratic transformation. The idea that we do not want equilibrium must be combined with what we want. We want democratisation, of course. That is what matters, the positive one, that is, we want democratisation of education. We didn't hear that. We have heard about excellence, about the risk of equilibrium, but this democratisation has not even been heard for a while. I do not want to talk about other issues to which other colleagues and speakers have referred. I would just like to say that, with the bill, it is clear that our government is taking another powerful step for what we call 'democratic educational reform'. And this step, these steps will take place immediately after the elections, with the new educational and academic year, where the people will enable SYRIZA to continue the government effort to rectify public education and further democratise education. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall refer to an issue with which I think I am interpreting the feelings and opinions of colleagues. It's a personal initiative of mine. I am referring to the subject raised by Mr Polakis's statements. I believe that Mr Paulakis is wrong with what he has said and that his government's work, which is important, in the field of health. He does not represent with what he said, of course, the democratic morale, the morale of SYRIZA. It also does not represent it, but it unfairs the government's effort to strengthen the fight against their families and the LEADs themselves for an equal place in our society as much as possible. I think he needs to find a way to make up for this failure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u155	Mrs. Kyrame, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Madam President. Four points, in conclusion, following this accelerating debate in the House. Point one: Classical studies. You said, Minister, and I note with great interest that you have upgraded - the SYRIZA Government - the classics. I assume you upgraded them, abolishing the ancient Greek by examination in high school. And because you said "why are only the serious things that are being considered and the others are not?", Minister, or do you have no picture of what is going on in practice or misled the world. Because you know very well that what is not dealt with in practice is annulled. Students do not pay due attention when a course is not considered at school. First, then, point: Eliminate the ancient Greek from the high school exams, subtracted emblematic texts of the Ancient Greek Secretariat from the curriculum, reduced the teaching hours of the ancient Greeks and you come now and abolish the Latin from the universally tested lessons and all this, while in the whole world a emphasis is placed on the classic letters. Point two: two-year-old pre-school education. Minister, I remember when we were discussing this provision in the Committee on Graphic Affairs and we told you that we were in favour of two years of compulsory pre-school education, but we told you that you were putting the cart in front of the horse. Why? Because there are no infrastructures and there is no need for human resources throughout the territory so that it can be applied throughout the whole territory. You were telling us 'you're exaggerating, you do not want the compulsory pre-school education and so on. Is there an article now, what's he saying? Get the kids into preschool for the compulsory kindergarten. So we, Minister, will repeat this: we are in favour of two-year compulsory pre-school education in normal infrastructures and of the government taking care of this. However, it is eloquently confirmed that for what you voted on then you had not guaranteed the necessary infrastructure or the necessary human resources. Thirdly, the amendment concerning Matti and the possibility of students having some extra molecules because of the situation there. We agree and propose that the same should apply to those who gave up last year and give up again this year. The unfavourable situation continues, unfortunately, and we therefore propose that it be extended to those who had given it last year and who have given it again. Fourth point: Reorder of an academic map. Minister, I told you yesterday that most universities are opposite. I referred to the decision of the assembly of the University of Patras. You tried to change the impressions. As I presented it to you in the Minutes, he discussed the draft law and decided: twenty-three members said 'by weight', ten members said 'in favour', one member said 'white'. I told you about the University of Peloponnese, I told you about the University of Crete, I told you about the University of Thessaloniki. All this is against the bill. You got up, you came to Stepma and said, "How do you do? Even where the reorder of the academic map, like in Yannina, is already under way, is all going great." Minister, there is nothing going on for you because the same morning, just before you spoke, had come up with a decision of the conference of the University of Ioannina, which says, firstly, that it does not agree with the draft law, and secondly, it says: "The Senate considers that the experience and difficulties faced and confronted with the University of Ioannina have not been taken into account in the attempted restructuring of the educational system". This is a practical proof of whether what you say about reorder is valid and how well it all goes. Your own universities are disgusting. I will conclude with the following: Parliamentary amendments. Minister, we have been asking you for a year and a half on what criteria you are conducting to reorder the academic map of the country. Do you have academic criteria? Do you take into account evaluation? Do you take into account feasibility and sustainability studies? And you say 'yes, we have it all'. Except you haven't brought anything to the House to discuss. I see it here - and my fellow Members will also hear it - a parliamentary amendment from Members of the European Parliament to establish a section by magic in Edessa. I see a parliamentary amendment tabled by Florina and Kosani to establish sections in Florina and Kosani. I see a parliamentary amendment tabled by Mr Argolis to establish a section in Argos. We have one proposal amendments. Not to mention a General Accounting Report of the State and how much all this costs and so on. That's it, Minister. We shouldn't have ordered it. You can prove in the most deafening way how you understand the map of higher education. Prove how you realize that university departments need to be established. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] Minister - and I will close with this - you will remain in history as the Minister who has reached the level of education. But after today, Minister, you will remain in history and something else. You will remain in history for the fact that you personally did not have the political courage to condemn the innocence of the Deputy Minister of Health to Stelios Kymburopoulos. You didn't have the political courage. I recognize that to Mr. Friend. Mr. Friend got up and convicted. You, Minister, did not have the political courage to do that. You will, unfortunately, remain the story of this inertia of yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u157	Please, before we continue the procedure, I give the floor to the Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, my colleagues informed me that they were going to give a top fight - I would say - on parliamentary data, unprecedented - and I will say that - a communal distraction just one day after my public invitation - we are also typically tomorrow in the election period of the European Elections of 26 May - to a person with confrontation on all the critical issues that concern Greek citizens, the Greek people in the face of this critical Europe, but also on the place of reconversion, that is, on the issues of Europe, the economy, the crucial national issues, the social issues that concern the world, the people, the voters. So he chose a diversion that highlights the panic in which he and his communication staff are in order to escape again from a person with a face-to-face confrontation on the critical issues. And he went up to this forefront to say he was going to testify after Easter holiday a motion of civic distrust to a government minister. Mr. Mitsotakis is evidently attempting in this way to avoid the discussion about the critical and the great and he wants to put at the heart of the discussion whether Paul Paul Paul Paul Pavakis's style is good or bad, if he is noble or rude, as he comes from the Sfakia and knows, it seems, as they are short-sighted, the look of the Sfakians and wants to talk about it and not about the benefits you want to abolish, not about the Christmas gift you want to abolish, not about the economy that comes out of the crisis, not about 'NOVARTIS' and the sea-loving that you want to cover up! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Well, we won't do you a favor, ladies and gentlemen. Tell your Chief Mitsotakis that whenever he tables a motion of censure against a member of the government in this Chamber, I will turn the debate into a vote of confidence for the government and we will discuss the big and critical things, not what you want. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr. Mitsotakis will be here to tell us why he wants to abolish the Christmas present. He will come here and tell us why he wants to reduce the minimum wage, because he wants Pinochet's insurance, because he wants to cover up "NOVARTIS" and sea-loving. That's why you'll give an account and answer it. At any time, you put forward a motion of censure against a member of the government or a total of government - you dare not - here we shall discuss all the matter, in front of the Greek people, where you have brought the country, where you have made it and how we are making it out of the crisis. This bitter glass you'll drink. You'll drink it all the way.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u159	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u160	Yes, but they're waiting for the rapporteurs to be seconded.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u161	It is provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u162	I know, Mr. Javarra. To make it easier, I say. How much time do you want? Is that three minutes enough?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u163	Okay, Madam President. Three to five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u164	Come on, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u165	Prime Minister, someone would never expect you - following your rapporteur's statement too, Mr Friend, from the Step of the House that Mr Polakis' behaviour does not represent the democratic morale that we should serve in this Chamber - must be fully identified with this man. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] A politician who systematically violates all the principles of democracy, morality, politics, and the Constitution, who have proclaimed not only as value but as selfishness the man and his dignity. What Mr Paulakis has done, to turn against a man who is a fighter of life, who has tried to overcome and managed to overcome his natural weaknesses and to declare himself a champion in the struggle that Greece is currently giving today to proclaim and declare representatives to the European Parliament, precisely this catastrophe he has made, which, as I said, violates the value of man, does not think you have the right to cover it under this challenge supposedly that the Prime Minister of Greece, the Prime Minister who has direct democratic legitimacy and enjoys Parliament's confidence, is identified by this man and, above all, by engaging in an argument that is not just twofold, but violates the rules of every logic. So you said that man has a special style. That man and the style you told us about are two different and separate things? Hey, no, Prime Minister! Man is his style. Each of us may not be a genius, but it is inevitable to be a "self- texture". Each one of us is his style. And this style of Mr. Polakis undermines the values of democracy, decency, dignity, which you once fought for from the square of the Constitution. You have a democratic obligation, you are bound by the name of humanity, which must be served, to be expelled from your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u166	Prime Minister, will you answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u167	Yes, Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u168	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u169	Since Mr. Mitsotakis isn't here, I'll answer Mr. Javarra. What am I supposed to do? He doesn't come to debate, he doesn't come to parliament. I shall reply to Mr Javara, who has a clear speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u170	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u171	Well, we didn't underestimate you. I barely appreciate Mr Javarra. Calm down! Mr. Javarra, I don't know if you understood what I said. I said that you are attempting an unprecedented diversion for parliamentary data. With your pleasure and your pleasure, you're trying. The glass, however, will drink it. We won't talk about Paul. We'll talk about the many. We will discuss the many, what the world is dealing with, the many who suffer and come out of the crisis. That's what we'll talk about. And if for you, disgraceful about democracy and dignity is the style and the morality of each of us, I would like to tell you that each of us is counted in his honesty. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It is a disgrace for democracy, therefore, that sea-lovings which were given night with amendments to this House. Shame on democracy was the hatred of the whole of the previous parliamentary term. Shame on democracy was corruption. It was a disgrace to democracy. Shame on democracy is the fact that on the big and crucial political issues you are today resorting to a distraction that does not honor you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] So each one is judged by his reasons and his works, as will the government as a whole for his work. So we will not allow you to divert the debate where you wish to divert it. We will discuss the essentials and as many days as you want for as many days as it takes! So I repeat to you, Mr Javarra, that at any time you have tabled a motion of censure, either to a Minister of Government or to the government as a whole, because you have this possibility if I am not mistaken - you have not taken advantage of this parliamentary weapon when you have announced that you will do so, when we voted here on the Presidencies Agreement, and we have called for the Parliament's confidence and we have taken it courageously - I inform you - to convey it to your Chief - that I, myself, will call for the vote of confidence from the Greek Parliament to be sufficient, to be on a three-day basis, to be effective and to be on all the crucial issues that you want to avoid. Hey, you're not gonna avoid this! Understood! You won't avoid them!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u172	Madam President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u173	Mr Javarra, we are not going to have this dialogue now. As you can see, this is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u174	Just a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u175	And one and a half minutes aren't foreseeable. What happens now? Then you'll need another minute. Don't you understand? You're constantly opening up issues. What am I supposed to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u176	Madam President, for us it is incomprehensible for the President of the SYRIZA Party who governs the place to anticipate a diversion between benefits, between benefits, between schools established by amendments on the one hand and, on the other, the dignity of the individual, the person, the person, that is to say, the one we all have to serve. There is no diversion, Mr President, and I am really sorry that you have reached this point, to identify one case of a person who has actually undermined all meaning and substance of humanity from politics.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u177	All right, Mr. Javarra. Mr Gregos has the floor, and then we will finish the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Madam President. We've naturally been out of the bill. We want to denounce again the procedure under which this bill came, both to the committees and to the plenary. It's a normal procedure. In this bill almost all the bodies from what I see here - and there are too many - opposed them. And the Golden Dawn is against the bill. Of course there have been too many amendments in the form, I would say, of a new bill. So we had a bill and another bill came in. So many of the amendments. And so that the Greek people know what happens when we talk about amendments, I can explain: Three - four Members are gathered from one particular county, they are communicating with the 'fourths' and tabling a relevant amendment, always for voting reasons, as was the clear vote, which we denounced both in committee and in plenary. The word 'nationalism' has been said. We as Golden Dawn - and not only us, but also the Greek people - insist that you are an ethnicist government and you will see it very soon in elections. You will not be able to implement this bill either, because time is running out. Your plans for the dissolution of education will not pass and any other project will find against it the Golden Dawn and the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u179	Mr. Delis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u180	Let us not forget, there is also a draft law on education, which gives a heavy blow to the cultural rights of our country's young people, and there is, of course, a decisive step forward in the conversion of high school into an exterminating examination centre, in which it is certainly downgraded - it could not be done differently - its educational role and general education courses are limited. This, of course, has nothing to do with the upgrading that the government has been talking about for so many days in the debate in this House. So no upgrade of the Third High School is made and no value is given to the National High School after the government's bill, because this will continue to be the case, under the university degrees, under the certification of post-training. Of course, there is no free access, if you look at it carefully, since even for this access, for the so-called 'green' schools, one will have to pass through the test of regional examinations, but which is of the universal type. As for the universities, these are even more deeply adapted to the major business groups, to their development and investment projects, which of course also found expression at the recent regional development conferences, where mayors, regional and government representatives were planning precisely these conferences together. Impressiveness is also the absence of any discussion, of any hint of the bill for this great post-training bazaar, for those students who end high school and do not continue in university. These are hundreds of thousands of children, who literally fall into the fingernails of the school traders and pay for late training, always having the need to update this knowledge. Of course, we have had a negative impression that the justification for rejecting the JRC's amendments, firstly, on the possibility of obtaining courses. It is incomprehensible that the Minister described this as unthinkable for your policy. It is incomprehensible to give some little breath, to have some relief measures for the children of the poor and the people's families. We also have the rejection of the amendment to the older graduates of TEIs who disappear. And yes, TEIs disappear, but their old graduates are here and there are thousands, and that's why we suggested that they be equal to the new university institutions. And this was rejected, while the Minister in the JRC's amendment to the amendments that are entitled to, and must be received by students from poor, popular families, said that they are being mobilized. The question is not whether they are being mobilized, the question is whether they are being renamed. We would like to say two - three words on the storm, a real storm of amendments, particularly of Members who have come at the last minute. I shall refer to the amendment with a general number of 2129, which in one of its seven articles further privatises - and we want to denounce this - the process of revising building permits. It was privatized, now it's getting even more. And of course we will refer to paragraph 7 of the specific amendment to the fifth article in which, if we understand it well, it opens the way - listen - for the legalisation of arbitrarily in archaeological sites. It is a very serious development and we want to take note of it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] With regard to Amendment No 2131 by the Ministry of Health, and here I am the same Pantelaki as I am, even greater, even more profoundly privatising the transplantation process, not of course in public hospitals, but in private health centres. Therefore, instead of becoming public and free of charge, transplants will cost even more expensive. And, of course, we have an amendment on the tetrahydrocannabinol content in industrial cannabis. You know there is a limit to international science that says that when you exceed the threshold of 0.2%, then even this so-called 'industrial cannabis' can be considered as a drug. This limit exists in law and the amendment gives the opportunity to increase by ministerial decision and to go up to 0.6%. And we will of course vote against that. In conclusion, we want to say at the end of the day on the proposal for a roll-call vote tabled by our party and, in principle, on the whole of the bill, but also on Article 100, which describes the whole Marathon Marathon for the system of access to higher education. Finally, several of the amendments - and we must confess to them - contain many elements which are mixed and positive and which are negative. In these cases we place ourselves with 'presents'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u181	Now I'm going to give the floor to the Minister to do a piece of legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u182	I would like the floor for two minutes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u183	You, Mr. Megalustakas, have exceeded your time. You spoke twenty-three minutes instead of twelve.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u184	Madam President, I have a legislative improvement, a word of an amendment from the Ministry of Finance, which we shall be tabling.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u185	After the end of the debate, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u186	Have a seat, Mr. Javarra. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u187	It is a legislative improvement, a word which is deleted from an amendment tabled by the Ministry of Finance yesterday. It's so simple.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u188	So an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u189	What is an amendment? Legal improvement is, a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u190	It's just things. There's always nothing strange.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u191	I repeat that it is a legislative improvement which I submit.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u192	Madam President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u193	Here you go, Mr. Megalustakas, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u194	Indeed, the size of the bill is such that it does not allow us to stay within the time limits you give us. I have proved three and a half years now that I do not want to exceed the time given to me while respecting what is going on in the Chamber. However, having been placed in detail in my speech yesterday on the draft law, I would now like to talk about the amendments which, unfortunately, show that there is not what we are all asking for in this Chamber and in particular in matters of education, namely discussion, consensus, cooperation and, anyway, the result of co-creating at least as a result of education. It is sad to see that you are following a practice of previous years and perhaps that way you are tearing down what has happened so far, as, of course, we Members, as Members of Parliament, respecting the importance they have and the work they do as the people of the world in the government, cannot accept that there are amendments which form part of such a way that no debate has taken place at all, at least in this Parliament. I think today will be a day that will be written in history, since what we really see is not the result of consensus, cooperation and discussion, which all the wings are asking for in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u195	The Minister has the floor for five minutes. Minister, you have spoken twenty-five minutes in your first speech, while it was twelve.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u196	I only spoke in suggestion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u197	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u198	It is a bill and a Minister who took out all the mudology: 'dangerous', 'crime', 'degree', 'undermining', 'rosfetologist', 'exhibiter', 'drug' and 'nero'. Look, one thing you didn't say. And I don't know why you don't say it and hide it. For two and a half years, since September 2017, you have not been telling us what your view is of the Third High School problem is. Do you know what your opinion is? Continuation of hypocrisy. Do what it exists, while it does not exist, and the whole society knows it, and you are shouting for consensus. Refugee to place yourself on what the problem is and want consensus on the solution to the problem. Can we agree that we are a country that doesn't have a third grade? Can we come up with that, yes or no? Unless you think we're in high school and everything's fine. And of course the Secretary of the Communist Party has said so. He says, "The problem is not that we don't have a third grade." So he acknowledges that we don't have, he just doesn't think it's a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u199	He didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u200	But I'm sorry, what am I supposed to do? Look, interrupting isn't a clue that you're right. What am I supposed to do? I wrote that down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u201	You said the priesthood of Assassus when you took over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u202	Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u203	Excuse me very much, but unfortunately that's the truth. Because so you accept the problem, it is one of the things that we are proposing. That's why you don't want to accept the problem. That is why you say the incredible general findings. Now what I don't understand is love and grief for the TEIs. By who? The ones that buried them. And of course, one and a half days now we have forgotten that PASOK is not here, that is not what this debate is about. He thought it was a good thing to exercise the revolutionary right and leave. So lamented for TEIs and technological education? Did we leave them without personal? We left them without infrastructure, or are we the first government in 1974 to take the two arms of higher education seriously, our universities and the TEIs? Leave all that terrorism, that they're losing their professional rights and stuff like that. Nobody at all loses anything. Can I tell you something else? You're blaming us for micro-partnerships. If we wanted to do a micro-party policy, we would adopt what you and now you are proposing, transforming all the TEIs into universities of applied sciences. Isn't that your suggestion? This is a micro-partnership, not the consensus process that we have managed to build. Because, you know, you have a small deficit in understanding concepts. Consensus is not unanimity, it is a consensus that we decide on the first step. And here, then, are impressive consensus. You're talking about high school that she's taking care of, that she's becoming an exam center, etc. Do you know how many tests the kids give today in high school? They give forty-three tests. Do you know how many people give with the system we're proposing? They'll give eighteen tests. This can't be an examination centre! But, again, you really want high school to remain as it is, because you do not want to place it as a former preparatory year. In all parts of the world, that's the way it is! And as far as all this lamentation about general education is concerned, at last try to defend it and not as it has been degenerated today. I don't want to comment on the unbelievable system of the JRC, which one says to keep whatever grades he wants for as long as he wants to give what lessons he wants to see what grades he's going to keep. This is not a system, I'm very sorry. And, of course, in Parliament, the shortest joke was expressed, the JRC's demand for critical thought was expressed. I would therefore ask you to respect all our principles and values. They say we're building sections for rhetorical reasons. Shall we say it again? Today the departments are four hundred fifty and become four hundred thirty after our plan. That is the reality you do not want to recognize. And, of course, an evaluation of the sections, and those that were now and those that are founded. Also evaluation of teachers, but not revenge. It's two different things.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u204	Mr. Gabroglou, because you are a master in the distortion, read what the party secretary said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u205	Mr. Paphie, all right, we don't get to cross all the line right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u206	Read it all! Here is to read what Kutsubas said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u207	Mr. Pafile, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u208	Read it and not what you note!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u209	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u210	Read it all!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u211	The auction.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u212	That's never happened again!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u213	Mr Pafile, you also enter the easy image culture, which is very friendly to the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u214	Read it and not what you note!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u215	At least, I haven't been accused of being indisputable. That's at least...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u216	Totally!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u217	Read what he says! Read exactly what he said!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u218	Facilitate the situation a little, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u219	Listen, I wrote exactly what I said...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u220	Read it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u221	Let me finish, and I promise...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u222	Will you submit what the Minister will read? I don't understand what's going on here!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u223	...against all colleagues that if I hear the voice in the minutes and see that's what I'm saying, I'll go out and report that. If I'm wrong, I'll apologize.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u224	Ask in advance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u225	I will not ask in advance, because I know that this newspaper publishes what is of interest to the people as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u226	Is that right? Take the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u227	Uh, that's it, isn't it? For years now, it's not new.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u228	Bring Mr. Koutsuba's speech from the Minutes now, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u229	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u230	Mr. Palphie, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u231	The Minutes of the House...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u232	Do you hear what I'm saying? In the Minutes, I'm going, but not to the Risospasti.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u233	You don't want the image, you want the sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u234	Sure. Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u235	You prefer TV to radio...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u236	Minister, please don't answer because we'll never finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u237	You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u238	You were just working on this turbulence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u239	Another subject which has again been consciously distorted is the question of evaluation and the strict procedures we have to solve a 30-year-old problem, among four-year-old engineers and five-year-olds, academic procedures with which the four-year and professional rights are made with TE's involvement and very specific procedures. I challenge you to vote on this provision to end a 30-six-year-old problem. So, all of this, polytechnization - says - in one night etc., doesn't honor you as...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u240	The dean says it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u241	Please, I want to know what you're talking about. Leave what others say. But, at last, you must have a point of view, not all of them. Now, as far as experimental and standards are concerned, another mess. You said we abolished them, excellence, one, the other, etc. But I didn't hear you say one thing. We guarantee the employment rights of those working there, which Mrs Diamantopoulou's 2011 law did not have where to go, yes or no? That didn't sound here. The lamentation of excellence has again been heard. I have noted all the institutes, etc.. Look, for colleges - I want it to be clear - the concept of professional equivalence is a neo-collection of 2012. It shall contain, within it, very serious bypass elements of Article 16. We are rationalizing and we are 100% in line with the European Business Directive, and of course we understand that there are already children in these colleges and we are giving an extension until they are finished. I conclude with Mr Mitsotakis' speech, which we did not have the pleasure of hearing, but I had the pleasure of reading it, which left it here. Days of the strategy is that since high school children have been informed about the labour market, our universities have been taking common steps with the labour market, universities and academics to produce measurable research results. I mean, hello to the human and social sciences. Measurable research result, okay? Finally, all this means that universities must be released from the Ministry's bonds. Article 16, which is still in force and will be for several more years, says about the supervision of the state. State supervision is a democratic conquest of our people, and all these things here are positions that undermine this democracy. So listen, and read the great reform that we are completing after two years, this huge reform, and try and work together on something else. Not only the legal application but also the change of attitudes and the change of attitudes in a society is probably much more difficult than the implementation of any laws.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u242	The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "University Synergies and T.E.I., access to higher education, experimental schools, General Archives of the State and other provisions". [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 181a]] We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. An application has been made for a roll-call vote by New Democracy MPs on the principle of the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: ‘ Universities and T.E.I.A.’, access to higher education, experimental schools, General Archives of the State and other provisions of which the text is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u243	I will also read out the list of signatories to the request for a roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mrs. N. Keramea. Here. Mr. Chiaras. Here you go. Mr. I. Andrian. Here you go. Mrs. M. Antoniou. Here. Mr. H. Kelles. Here you go. Mr. Javarras. Here you go. Mr. Hatzidakis. Here you go. Mr. A. Koutsubas. Here you go. Mr. W. Kikilias. Here you go. Mr. A. Prison. Here you go. Mr. A. Davakis. Here you go. Mrs. A. Karamanlis. Here. Mrs. Arabaji. Here. Mr. A. Katsaniotis. Here you go. Mr. Tsoulus. Here you go. Mr. G. Karasmanis. Here you go. Mr. N. Panayotopoulos. Here you go. Mr. D. Kriazides. Here you go. Mr. I. Kefefaliannis. Here you go. Mrs. S. Dumping. Here. Mr. A. Besiropoulos. Here you go. Mr. G. Georgades. Here you go. Mr. G. Lazarides. Here you go. Mr. I. Antoniadis. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. A request has also been made for a roll-call vote by Members of the Communist Party of Greece in principle and under Article 100 of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs legislation, the text of which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u244	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to see if the number required by the Rules of Procedure is available. Mr. D. Koutsubas. Here you go. Mr. A. Vardalis. Here you go. Mr. I. Giokas. Here you go. Mr. I. Delis. Here you go. Mrs. Kannelli. Here. Mr. N. Karathanasopoulos. Here you go. Mr. H. Catalan. Here you go. Mr. G. Lambroulis. Here you go. Mrs. Manolakou. Here. Mr. N. Mauritius. Here you go. Mrs. A. Pappiga. Here. Mr. A. Padalis. Here you go. Mr. Stergiou. Here you go. Mr. E. Symposium. Here you go. Mr. S. Tassos. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. Do you accept the two votes in one?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u245	The House agreed. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u246	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. [[The letters referred to above are entered in the Minutes and are as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter pages 185-186]] Electronic roll-call vote will take place in principle and under Article 100 of the draft law. We are aware that the rapporteurs and the special speakers of the draft law should remain after the roll-call vote to vote on the remaining articles, amendments, the nominee article and the whole draft law. We would remind you that after your vote has been registered, you have the opportunity to check it or to revise it by the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u247	I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, to which they give their vote. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. The letters, which have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, in accordance with Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure, will be recorded in the Minutes and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u248	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters by colleagues from Mr Konstantinos Zourri and Mr Themistoclis Mumulides, who know that they are absent from the vote and that if they were here they would vote 'yes'. Members' letters, and so on, have been sent to the Bureau. Constantine Al. Karamanlis, Constantine Ah. Karamanlis, Aikaterini Markos, Christos Stagioura, Konstantinos Kondogeorgos, Theodouros Fortsakis, George Vagonas, Christos Dimas, who know that they are absent from the vote and that if they were present they would vote "no". These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the electronic counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u249	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u250	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the electronic roll-call vote. A total of 257 Members voted. The principle of the draft law: In favour of the principle, i.e. 'NAH', 147 Members voted. In other words, we have voted against the principle, namely 'OH', 100 Members have voted. No one voted. The draft law is therefore accepted in principle by a majority. Article 100, as amended by the Minister: In favour of this article, i.e. 'NAH', 147 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 100 Members. No one voted. Article 100, as amended by the Minister, has therefore been accepted by a majority. Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u251	After the electronic roll-call vote on the principle and Article 100 has been completed, we are entering the vote on the remaining articles, amendments and the whole draft law. The vote will again be taken electronically by the rapporteurs and special speakers of the bill. We would like to point out that the vote includes two hundred nineteen articles, twenty-seven amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. Each time on the screen, as you will open it, they appear up to four articles to vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have voted for all the articles, amendments, the hotel article and the entire bill. After you have registered your vote, you may check it or even revise it by the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u252	Ladies and gentlemen, New Democracy MP Konstantinos Tsiaras is requesting permission from a short-day absence from 1 May to 5 May 2019. Also, SYRIZA MP Mr Themistollis Mumulides asks for permission from a few days' absence abroad from 23 April to 2 May 2019 for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u253	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. Ladies and gentlemen, once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u254	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u255	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Science and T.E.I. Synergies, access to higher education, experimental schools, General Archives of the State and other provisions" was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all, and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u256	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u257	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-23-S1-commons.u258	With the consent of the House, 14.26 hours will be held for the sitting. Monday, May 6, 2019, at 18.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate. Good Easter, good Resurrection, good rest to all and attention to the streets!
